Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 9 Item 2. Properties 9 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 9 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 9 Information About Our Executive Officers 10 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 12 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 13 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 14 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 27 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 Item 9B. Other Information 67 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 67 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation 68 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 68 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 68 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 68 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 69 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 71 Signatures 72 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2021 Annual Report PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. We are a global company focused on delivering products and solutions that provide better care for a better world through product innovation and building our personal care, consumer tissue and K-C Professional brands. We are principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of products mostly made from natural or synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "Corporation," "Kimberly-Clark," "K-C," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. Description of Kimberly-Clark We are organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable global business segments as follows: Personal Care brands offer our consumers a trusted partner in caring for themselves and their families by delivering confidence, protection and discretion through a wide variety of innovative solutions and products such as disposable diapers, training and youth pants, swimpants, baby wipes, feminine and incontinence care products, and other related products. Products in this segment are sold under the Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, DryNites, Sweety, Kotex, U by Kotex, Intimus, Depend, Plenitud, Softex, Poise and other brand names. Consumer Tissue offers a wide variety of innovative solutions and trusted brands that responsibly improve everyday living for families around the world. Products in this segment include facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products, and are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Neve and other brand names. K-C Professional partners with businesses to create Exceptional Workplaces, helping to make them healthier, safer and more productive through a range of solutions and supporting products such as wipers, tissue, towels, apparel, soaps and sanitizers. Our brands, including Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech and KleenGuard are well known for quality and trusted to help people around the world work better. These reportable segments were determined in accordance with how our chief operating decision maker and our executive managers develop and execute our global strategies to drive growth and profitability of our personal care, consumer tissue and K-C Professional operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management and capacity, and capital investments for each of these businesses. Products for household use are sold directly to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets, as well as through other distributors and e-commerce. Products for away-from-home use are sold through distributors, directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, and high-volume public facilities, and through e-commerce. Net sales to Walmart Inc. as a percent of our consolidated net sales were approximately 14 percent in 2021, 15 percent in 2020 and 14 percent in 2019. Net sales to Walmart Inc. were primarily in the Personal Care and Consumer Tissue segments. On October 1, 2020, we acquired Softex Indonesia, a leader in the fast-growing Indonesian personal care market, in an all-cash transaction for approximately $1.2 billion. This transaction significantly expanded our presence in an important developing and emerging market and is a strong strategic fit with our core business. See Item 8, Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details. Patents and Trademarks We own various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. We consider the patents and trademarks that we own and the trademarks under which we sell certain of our products to be material to our business. Consequently, we seek patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration. 1 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2021 Annual Report Raw Materials Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for our tissue products, and in the form of fluff pulp, is a component of disposable diapers, training and youth pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products. Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence care products, and away-from-home wipers and apparel. Superabsorbent materials are important components of disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products. Raw materials are purchased from third parties, and we consider the supply to be adequate to meet the needs of our businesses. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Competition We have several major competitors in most of our markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than us. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Foreign Market Risks We operate and market our products globally, and our business strategy includes targeted growth in Latin America, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect our financial results. Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Our continued commitment to doing the right thing underpins our social impact and smallest footprint ambitions. B etter care for a better world begins with ensuring the health and safety of our customers, consumers, and employees, promoting diversity and inclusion within our business, and protecting the rights of workers across our supply chain. We also believe we can make meaningful contributions to gender equality, clean water and sanitation, climate action and responsible consumption and production. Our sustainability strategy puts our brand, supply chain and innovation teams to work to create shared value by solving global challenges and is focused on addressing impactful climate-related risks and opportunities throughout our value chain, as outlined in our most recent Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD") report. We implement this strategy by considering our sustainability goals during our business and capital planning processes, aligning the priorities of our supply chain, brand and innovation teams, and establishing meaningful performance indicators. Our environmental priorities include reducing our use of new fossil fuel-based plastic, while enabling circular systems to recover the materials in our products and packaging; reducing our products use of natural forest fiber, while protecting forest biodiversity and supporting forest dependent communities; reducing greenhouse gas emissions along our value chain, with goals approved by the Science Based Targets initiative ("SBTi"); and building resilience to water risk at our facilities and in our communities in water-stressed regions around the world. The United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals are now accepted as the best shared definition of what needs to be done over the next decade, and we have aligned our goals with that framework. Regulatory Compliance We are subject to many laws and regulations across all the countries in which we do business, and we are particularly impacted by those relating to product safety, environmental protection and data privacy and protection. We are obligated to comply with regulations that cover product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. These include requirements that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers of risks of using our products. In some cases, it may be necessary to initiate product recalls if safety risks are considered to exist. All our facilities and other operations are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater. We are also subject to various laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection, including the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which became effective on January 1, 2020. 2 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2021 Annual Report Our policy is to abide by all applicable laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place to manage global compliance with these various requirements. We monitor each of these areas for new or changed regulatory requirements, particularly in the rapidly evolving area of data privacy and protection. We have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws and regulations; however, total capital expenditures and operating expenses related to compliance are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. Human Capital Management We had approximately 45,000 employees as of December 31, 2021 in our consolidated operations. Approximately 30 percent of our employees were located in North America and the remainder were in approximately 60 countries outside of North America. Overall, approximately 60 percent of our workforce was directly involved in manufacturing and distribution operations. In order to recruit, retain, develop, protect and fairly compensate our employees, we focus on four key areas: inclusion and diversity, health and safety, development and employee engagement, and compensation and benefits. Inclusion and diversity We believe our business success is intricately tied to creating workplaces, communities and experiences where inclusion and diversity are evident and thriving. We prioritize the need to cultivate a workforce where all are included and empowered to do their best work. Employing people from disparate backgrounds, cultures, and experiences amplifies our ability to gather insights, foster innovation and understand the culture, context, and mindset of consumers around the world. As a company who serves consumers and communities, it is essential that our workforce is comprised of people who look, think, and behave like the people who use our products now and in the future. As such, we support workforce inclusion and diversity and consider it a fundamental business strategy. We continue to make progress on our short-and long-term goals for women and U.S. People of Color in all management roles. This commitment is evidenced by having the Management Development and Compensation Committee ( MDC ) of the Board of Directors responsible for reviewing the diversity and inclusion strategy and related metrics. Health and safety We are committed to the health and safety of our employees. We create and administer company-wide policies and processes to protect our employees and to comply with applicable safety regulations. Health and safety training is regularly provided to our employees. We review and monitor our performance closely to drive continuous improvement in our safety programs. In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we provided enhanced benefits and implemented additional workplace safety programs and processes in all our facilities. As the circumstances and impacts of COVID-19 evolve, we continue to evaluate our response and adapt to protect the health and safety of our employees. Development and employee engagement Developing talent and leaders at all levels of the organization and engaging our employees is critical to our long-term success. We maintain talent and succession planning processes and have leadership and management development programs as well as broad learning opportunities for all employees to support their career growth and advance their skills. We also offer employees the opportunity to join Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs"). These groups foster professional development, social connectivity, and celebrate diversity throughout our company. Current ERGs provide community and insights into the perspectives and experiences of those with African, Hispanic, Latino, and Asian ancestry, women, and LGBTQ+, as well as parents, caregivers, people with disabilities, military veterans, and new employees. Our ERGs promote career development by allowing employees to connect with and learn from one another and help amplify our inclusion and diversity efforts. Further, in regard to employee engagement, we hold regular Town Hall meetings where any employee can ask questions of executives and make their voice heard. We also host global conversations about racism, bias and other important topics. We engage in continuous listening via global surveys, on an ongoing basis, that offer our employees the ability to provide feedback and valuable insight to help address potential issues and identify opportunities to improve and support employee engagement. Compensation and benefits We provide market-based competitive compensation through our salary, annual incentive and long-term incentive programs and robust benefits packages that promote employee well-being across all aspects of 3 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2021 Annual Report their lives. Eligible employees are compensated for their contributions to our goals with both short-term cash incentives and long-term equity-based incentives. We also provide a variety of resources and services to help our employees plan for retirement. We believe the structure of our compensation packages provides the appropriate incentives to attract, retain and motivate our employees. The MDC is responsible for establishing and administering the policies governing annual compensation and long-term compensation to ensure that the policies are designed to align compensation with our overall business strategy and performance. Available Information We make financial information, news releases and other information available on our corporate website at www.kimberly-clark.com . Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 or call 972-281-5317 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.