Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 1C Cybersecurity 20 Item 2 Properties 21 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Part II 22 Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6 Reserved 24 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 99 Item 9A Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 99 Item 9B Other Information 99 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 99 Part III 100 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 100 Item 11 Executive Compensation 100 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 100 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 101 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 101 Part IV 102 Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 102 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 104 Signatures 105 PART I FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements about our future performance. These statements are based on our assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to us. These statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors, including the risks and other factors discussed in Risk Factors below, that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from any future results or outcomes expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such statements are indicated by words such as achieve, affect, anticipate, assumptions, believe, committed, continue, could, deliver, effect, enable, estimate, expects, future, goal, growth, intended, likely, may, model, objective, plan, position, program, range, result, strategy, strive, strong, target, trend, will and would, and similar words or phrases. Moreover, statements in the sections entitled Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ), and elsewhere in this report regarding our expectations, projections, beliefs, intentions or strategies are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Various uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These include: The extent to which our sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet our requirements may be affected by the state of the financial markets and the effect that such condition has on our ability to issue commercial paper at acceptable rates. Our ability to borrow under our committed lines of credit, including our bank credit facilities, could be impaired if one or more of our lenders under those lines is unwilling or unable to honor its contractual obligation to lend to us, or in the event that global pandemics, natural disasters or weather conditions interfere with the ability of our lenders to lend to us. Our ability to refinance maturing debt may be affected by the state of the financial markets . Our ability to achieve sales, earnings and incremental FIFO operating profit goals may be affected by: the risks relating to or arising from our proposed nationwide opioid litigation settlement, including our ability to finalize and effectuate the settlement, the scope and coverage of the ultimate settlement and the expected financial or other effects that could result from the settlement; our proposed transaction with Albertsons, including, among other things, our ability to consummate the proposed transaction and related divestiture plan, including on the terms of the merger agreement and divestiture plan, on the anticipated timeline, with the required regulatory approvals, and/or resolution of pending litigation challenging the merger; labor negotiations; potential work stoppages; changes in the unemployment rate; pressures in labor; changes in government-funded benefit programs; changes in the types and numbers of businesses that compete with us; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, and the aggressiveness of that competition; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including interest rates, the current inflationary environment and future potential inflationary, disinflationary and/or deflationary trends and such trends in certain commodities, products and/or operating costs; the geopolitical environment including wars and conflicts; unstable political situations and social unrest; changes in tariffs; the effect that fuel costs have on consumer spending; volatility of fuel margins; manufacturing commodity costs; supply constraints; diesel fuel costs related to our logistics operations; trends in consumer spending; the extent to which our customers exercise caution in their purchasing in response to economic conditions; the uncertainty of economic growth or recession; stock repurchases; changes in the regulatory environment in which we operates; our ability to retain pharmacy sales from third- party payors; consolidation in the healthcare industry, including pharmacy benefit managers; our ability to negotiate modifications to multi-employer pension plans; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; the effect of public health crises or other significant catastrophic events; the potential costs and risks associated with potential cyber-attacks or data security breaches; the success of our future growth plans; the ability to execute our growth strategy and value creation model, including continued cost savings, growth of our alternative profit businesses, and our ability to better serve our customers and to generate customer loyalty and sustainable growth through our strategic pillars of fresh, Our Brands , personalization, and seamless; and the successful integration of merged companies and new partnerships. 2 Our ability to achieve these goals may also be affected by our ability to manage the factors identified above. Our ability to execute our financial strategy may be affected by our ability to generate cash flow. Our adjusted effective tax rate may differ from the expected rate due to changes in tax laws, the status of pending items with various taxing authorities, and the deductibility of certain expenses. We cannot fully foresee the effects of changes in economic conditions on our business. Other factors and assumptions not identified above, including those discussed in Part 1, Item 1A of this Annual Report, could also cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information. Accordingly, actual events and results may vary significantly from those included in, contemplated or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or our representatives. We undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking information contained in this filing. Our ability to complete our proposed transaction with Albertsons may be affected by various factors, including those set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other factors as may be described in subsequent filings with the SEC . ITEM 1. BUSINESS. The Kroger Co. (the Company or Kroger ) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902. Our Company is built on the foundation of our retail grocery business, which includes the added convenience of our retail pharmacies and fuel centers. Our strategy is focused on growing customer loyalty by delivering great value and convenience, and investing in four strategic pillars: Fresh, Our Brands , Data Personalization and Seamless. We also utilize the data and traffic generated by our retail business to deliver incremental value and services for our customers that generates alternative profit streams. These alternative profit streams would not exist without our core retail business. Our revenues are predominately earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in our stores, fuel centers and via our online platforms. We earn income predominately by selling products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of the costs we incur to make these products available to our customers. Such costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31. All references to 2023, 2022 and 2021 are to the fiscal years ended February 3, 2024, January 28, 2023 and January 29, 2022, respectively, unless specifically indicated otherwise. We maintain a web site (www.thekrogerco.com) that includes the Kroger Fact Book and other additional information about the Company. Kroger s website and any reports or other information made available by Kroger through its website are not part of or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available through our web site, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and our interactive data files, including amendments. These forms are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed them with, or furnished them electronically to, the SEC. Kroger is diversified across brands, product categories, channels of distribution, geographies and consumer demographics. Our combination of assets includes the following: 3 Stores As of February 3, 2024, Kroger operates supermarkets under a variety of local banner names in 35 states and the District of Columbia. As of February 3, 2024, Kroger operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,722 supermarkets, of which 2,257 had pharmacies and 1,665 had fuel centers. Approximately 50% of our supermarkets were operated in Company-owned facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased land. Our stores operate under a variety of banners that have strong local ties and brand recognition. We connect with customers through our expanding seamless ecosystem and the consistent delivery of a full, fresh, and friendly customer experience. Fuel sales are an important part of our revenue, net earnings and loyalty offering. Our fuel strategy is to include a fuel center at each of our supermarket locations when it is feasible and it is expected to be profitable. Each fuel center typically includes five to ten islands of fuel dispensers and storage tanks with capacity for 40,000 to 50,000 gallons of fuel. Supermarkets are generally operated under one of the following formats: combination food and drug stores ( combo stores ); multi-department stores; marketplace stores; or price impact warehouses. The combo store is the primary grocery store format. We believe this format is successful because the stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments, including natural food and organic sections, pharmacies, general merchandise, pet centers and high-quality perishables such as fresh seafood and organic produce. Multi-department stores are significantly larger in size than combo stores. In addition to the departments offered at a typical combo store, multi-department stores sell a wide selection of general merchandise items such as apparel, home fashion and furnishings, outdoor living, electronics, automotive products and toys. Marketplace stores are smaller in size than multi-department stores. They offer full-service grocery, pharmacy and health and beauty care departments as well as an expanded perishable offering and general merchandise area that includes apparel, home goods and toys. Price impact warehouse stores offer a no-frills, low cost warehouse format and feature everyday low prices plus promotions for a wide selection of grocery and health and beauty care items. Quality meat, dairy, baked goods and fresh produce items provide strategic differentiation for price impact warehouse stores. The average size of a price impact warehouse store is similar to that of a combo store. Seamless Digital Ecosystem We offer a convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of how they choose to shop with us, including Pickup, Delivery and Ship. We offer Pickup and Harris Teeter ExpressLane personalized, order online, pick up at the store services at 2,350 of our supermarkets and provide Delivery, which allows us to offer digital solutions to substantially all of our customers. Our Delivery solutions include orders delivered to customers from retail store locations, customer fulfillment centers powered by Ocado and orders placed through third-party platforms. These channels allow us to serve customers anything, anytime and anywhere with zero compromise on selection, convenience, and price. We also provide relevant customer-facing apps and interfaces that have the features customers want that are also reliable, easy to use and deliver a seamless customer experience across our store and digital channels. Merchandising and Manufacturing Our Brands products play an important role in our merchandising strategy and represented over $31 billion of our sales in 2023. Our supermarkets, on average, stock over 12,600 private label items. Our Brands products are primarily produced and sold in three tiers. Private Selection is our main premium quality brand, offering customers culinary foods and ingredients that deliver amazing eating experiences. The Kroger brand, which represents the majority of our private label items, is designed to consistently satisfy and delight customers with quality products that exceed or meet the national brand in taste and efficacy, as well as with unique and differentiated products. Big K , Smart Way and Heritage Farm are some of our value brands, designed to deliver good quality at a very affordable price. In addition to our three tiers, Our Brands offers customers a variety of natural and organic products with Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic . Both Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic are free from a defined list of artificial ingredients that some customers have told us they do not want in their food, and the Simple Truth Organic products are USDA certified organic. 4 Approximately 30% of Our Brands units and 43% of the grocery category Our Brands units sold in our supermarkets are produced in our food production plants; the remaining Our Brands items are produced to our strict specifications by outside manufacturers. We perform a make or buy analysis on Our Brands products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer prices versus open market purchases. As of February 3, 2024, we owned 33 food production plants. These plants consisted of 14 dairies, nine deli or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, two beverage plants, one meat plant and two cheese plants. Our Data We are evolving into a more diverse business. The traffic and data generated by our retail business, including pharmacies and fuel centers, is enabling this transformation. Kroger serves approximately 62 million households annually and because of our rewards program, over 95% of customer transactions are tethered to a Kroger loyalty card. Our 20 years of investment in data science capabilities is allowing us to utilize this data to create personalized experiences and value for our customers and is also enabling our fast-growing, high operating margin alternative profit businesses, including data analytic services and third-party media revenue. Our retail media business Kroger Precision Marketing provides differentiated media capabilities for our consumer packaged goods partners and other industry verticals. It is a key driver of our digital profitability and alternative profit. Proposed Merger with Albertsons As previously disclosed, on October 13, 2022, we entered into a merger agreement with Albertsons. The proposed merger is expected to accelerate our go-to-market strategy that includes Fresh, Our Brands , Personalization and Seamless, and continue our track record of investments across lowering prices, enhancing the customer experience, and increasing associate wages and benefits. For additional information about the proposed merger with Albertsons, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. SEGMENTS We operate supermarkets, multi-department stores and fulfillment centers throughout the United States. Our retail operations, which represent 97% of our consolidated sales, is our only reportable segment. We aggregate our operating divisions into one reportable segment due to the operating divisions having similar economic characteristics with similar long-term financial performance. In addition, our operating divisions offer customers similar products, have similar distribution methods, operate in similar regulatory environments, purchase the majority of the merchandise for retail sale from similar (and in many cases identical) vendors on a coordinated basis from a centralized location, serve similar types of customers, and are allocated capital from a centralized location. Our operating divisions are organized primarily on a geographical basis so that the operating division management team can be responsive to local needs of the operating division and can execute company strategic plans and initiatives throughout the locations in their operating division. This geographical separation is the primary differentiation between these retail operating divisions. The geographical basis of organization reflects how the business is managed and how our Chief Executive Officer, who acts as our chief operating decision maker, assesses performance internally. All of our operations are domestic. Revenues, profits and losses and total assets are shown in our Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 below. SEASONALITY The majority of our revenues are generally not seasonal in nature. However, revenues tend to be higher during the major holidays throughout the year. Additionally, certain significant events including inclement weather systems, particularly winter storms, tend to affect our sales trends. 5 HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Our People We want Kroger to be a place where our customers love to shop and associates love to work. This is why we aim to create working environments where associates feel encouraged and supported to be their best selves every day. As of February 3, 2024, Kroger employed nearly 414,000 full- and part-time employees. Our people are essential to our success, and we focus intentionally on attracting, developing and engaging a diverse workforce that represents the communities we serve. We strive to create a culture of opportunity and take seriously our role as a leading employer in the United States. Kroger has provided a large number of people with first jobs, new beginnings and lifelong careers. We have long been guided by our values Honesty, Integrity, Respect, Safety, Diversity and Inclusion. Attracting Developing Our Talent To deliver on our customers experiences and remain competitive with union and non-union employers, we continually try to improve how we attract and retain talent. In addition to competitive wages, quality benefits and a safe work environment, we offer a broad range of employment opportunities for workers of all ages and aspirations. Many retail roles offer opportunities to learn new skills, grow and advance careers. Associates at all levels of Kroger have access to training and education programs to build their skills and prepare for the roles they want. In 2023, we spent approximately $210 million on training our associates through onboarding, leadership development programs and programs designed to upskill associates across the Company. We continue to invest in new platforms and applications to make learning more accessible to our associates. Beyond our own programs, associates can take advantage of our tuition reimbursement benefit, which offers up to $3,500 annually $21,000 over the course of employment toward continuing education. These funds can be applied to education programs like certifications, associate or graduate degrees. Approximately 7,000 associates, 94% of whom are hourly, have taken advantage of our tuition reimbursement program in 2023. Kroger has invested approximately $54 million in this program since it launched in 2018. Rewarding Our Associates As we continue to operate in a challenging labor market, we are dedicated to attracting and retaining the right talent across the organization to be able to continue delivering for our customers. We are investing in our associates by expanding our industry-leading benefits, including continuing education, training and development and health and wellness. During 2023, we increased associate wages resulting in an average hourly rate of nearly $19, and a rate of nearly $25 with comprehensive benefits factored in, which is a 33% increase in rate in the last five years. Over the last five years, we have now invested more than $2.4 billion in incremental wage investments. We remain committed to supporting our associates with investments in wages and comprehensive benefits that are sustainable and will allow us to continue to keep products affordable for the communities we serve. We expect to make continued associate investments in 2024. Promoting Diversity, Equity Inclusion Diversity and inclusion have been among Kroger s values for decades. We strive to reflect the communities we serve and foster a culture that inspires collaboration and feeds the human spirit. We have taken a very thoughtful and purposeful approach to enact meaningful change and develop what we believe are the right actions to achieve true and lasting equality. Our Framework for Action: Diversity, Equity Inclusion plan reflects our desire to redefine, deepen, and advance our commitment, mobilizing our people, passion, scale and resources. This ongoing commitment includes the following framework pillars: Create a More Inclusive Culture; Develop Diverse Talent; Advance Diverse Partnerships; Advance Equitable Communities; and Deeply Listen and Report Progress. 6 Creating a Safe Environment Our associates safety is a top priority. It is also one of our core values. We prioritize providing the right safety training and equipment, safe working conditions and resources to maintain and improve associates well-being. Through our strategy to set clear expectations, routine monitoring, and regular communication and engagement, we reduce the number of injuries and accidents that happen in our workplace. We track health and safety metrics centrally for an enterprise-wide view of issues, trends and opportunities and monitor associate injury performance including total injuries, Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) injury rates, and lost-time injuries, as well as customer injury metrics like slip-and-fall injuries. We also track the completion of required training for associates, and we regularly share these metrics with leaders and relevant team members to inform management decisions. Supporting Labor Relations A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several different international unions. There are approximately 350 such agreements, usually with terms of three to five years. Wages, health care and pensions are included in all of these collective bargaining agreements that cover approximately 65% of our associates. Our objective is to negotiate contracts that balance wage increases that are competitive with union and non-union employers and provide affordable healthcare for associates with keeping groceries affordable for the communities we serve. Our obligation is to do this in a way that maintains a financially sustainable business. MANAGING CLIMATE IMPACTS Managing climate change impacts is an important part of Thriving Together , Kroger s Environmental, Social Governance ( ESG ) strategy and has been a focus for our business for many years. With a large portfolio of supermarkets, distribution warehouses and food production plants, as well as a complex supply chain, we recognize Kroger s effect on our climate. We continue to explore opportunities and take steps to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment and to reduce the potential risk of a changing climate on our operations. This includes enhancing our operational efficiency, increasing our usage of renewable energy and investing in new technologies. The key elements of our climate strategy are included below. Governance Climate effects are managed by leadership with input from several departments across the business. The Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our responsibilities as a corporate citizen and Kroger s practices related to environmental sustainability, including climate effects, along with other environmental and social topics of material importance. Kroger discloses detailed energy and emissions data, as well as our approach to managing climate-related topics, in our annual ESG Report, which can be found at www.thekrogerco.com/esgreport. Risk assessment To help identify and manage climate-related risks to our business, we conducted a quantitative climate risk assessment to determine the likelihood that different physical climate risks, including drought, extreme heat and extreme precipitation, would affect Kroger s operations at representative facilities in different geographies and, in turn, potentially increase operating costs for these facilities. As a result of our risk assessments, we do not currently anticipate the modeled physical risks to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows for the foreseeable future. We plan to continue these climate risk assessments moving forward. Kroger also acknowledges that current and emerging climate-related legislation could affect our business. As a result of state and federal requirements regarding the phase down of hydrofluorocarbon ( HFC ) refrigerants, we anticipate steadily replacing our refrigerant infrastructure to reach required levels, which could incur significant costs to the business. If legislation required an accelerated timeline regarding the phase down of HFC refrigerants, we could incur higher costs. Any such legislation will affect all retailers using refrigerants in their operations. 7 Climate adaptation To help prepare for and manage a variety of risk scenarios, including natural disasters and business disruptions to our supply chain, we maintain more than 200 business continuity plans. We have installed technologies and processes to ensure our supermarkets, food production plants, fulfillment centers and supply chain can respond quickly and remain operational. We also monitor energy availability and costs to help anticipate how changing climate patterns, like increasing temperatures, could affect our energy-sourcing costs and activities. Our teams also monitor transition risks due to climate change, including the effect possible new legislation may have on our business. Climate mitigation For many years, Kroger has implemented emission reduction projects, including energy efficiency improvements, refrigerant leak detection and mitigation measures, renewable energy installations and procurement and fleet efficiencies. In 2020, we set a goal to reduce absolute greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions from our operations (scope 1 and 2 emissions) by 30% by 2030, against a 2018 baseline. The goal was developed using climate science and is aligned with the Paris Agreement, specifically supporting a well-below 2 C climate scenario according to the absolute contraction method. Kroger is reviewing its GHG reduction target against the requirements of the Science Based Targets initiative. In 2023, we completed our first full Scope 3 emissions baseline. Additional discussion about our approach to managing climate effects is included in our annual ESG Report. The information in our ESG Report is not part of or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 8 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following is a list of the names and ages of the executive officers and the positions held by each such person. Except as otherwise noted, each person has held office for at least five years. Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing year until removed or replaced. Name Age Recent Employment History Mary E. Adcock 48 Ms. Adcock was elected Senior Vice President effective May 1, 2019 and is responsible for retail operations as well as the oversight of all Kroger retail divisions. From June 2016 to April 2019, she served as Group Vice President of Retail Operations. Prior to that, Ms. Adcock held leadership roles in Kroger s Columbus Division, including Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Merchandising. Prior to that, Ms. Adcock served as Vice President of Natural Foods Merchandising and as Vice President of Deli/Bakery Manufacturing and held several leadership positions in the manufacturing department, including human resources manager, general manager and division operations manager. Ms. Adcock joined Kroger in 1999 as human resources assistant manager at the Country Oven Bakery in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Stuart W. Aitken 52 Mr. Aitken was named Senior Vice President and Chief Merchant and Marketing Officer in August 2020. He was elected Senior Vice President in February 2019 and served as Group Vice President from June 2015 to February 2019. He is responsible for sales, pricing, promotional and category pl