Item 1. Business. Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business: commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, an approximately 92% owned subsidiary); transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a wholly owned subsidiary); and operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary). We also own approximately 53% of Altium Packaging LLC, an unconsolidated subsidiary, which is engaged in the manufacture of rigid plastic packaging solutions. We have four reportable segments comprised of three individual operating subsidiaries, CNA Financial Corporation, Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP and Loews Hotels Holding Corporation; and the Corporate segment. The Corporate segment is primarily comprised of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries and the operations of Altium Packaging LLC ( Altium Packaging ) through March 31, 2021. On April 1, 2021, we sold approximately 47% of Altium Packaging and following the transaction deconsolidated Altium Packaging. Subsequent to deconsolidation, our investment in Altium Packaging is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Additional financial information on each of our segments is included under Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ). For further information on the deconsolidation of Altium Packaging see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, CNA ) is an insurance holding company. CNA s property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company ( CCC ), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company Limited, Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries ( Hardy ) and CNA Insurance Company (Europe) S.A. CNA accounted for 83.6%, 84.6% and 81.2% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. 5 Table of Contents CNA s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA s services include warranty, risk management, information services and claims administration. CNA s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, both as it relates to rate and service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies, as well as other entities, for both distributors and customers. Property Casualty Operations CNA s commercial property and casualty insurance operations ( Property Casualty Operations ) includes its Specialty, Commercial and International lines of business. Specialty Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups: Management Professional Liability : Management Professional Liability consists of the following coverages and products: professional liability coverages and risk management services to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents, accounting firms and law firms; directors and officers ( D O ), errors and omissions ( E O ), employment practices, fiduciary, fidelity and cyber coverages. Specific areas of focus include small and mid-size firms, public as well as privately held firms and not-for-profit organizations; insurance products to serve the health care industry, including professional and general liability as well as associated casualty coverages. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, dentists, physicians, nurses and other medical practitioners. Surety : Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety bonds. Surety provides surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states. Warranty and Alternative Risks : Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and insurance products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles, portable electronic communication devices and other consumer goods. Service contracts are generally distributed by commission-based independent representatives and sold by auto dealerships and retailers in North America to customers in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle or new consumer goods. Additionally, CNA s insurance companies may issue contractual liability insurance policies or guaranteed asset protection reimbursement insurance policies to cover the liabilities of these service contracts issued by affiliated entities or third parties. Commercial Commercial works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance products to all types of insureds, targeting small business, construction, middle markets and other commercial customers. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as workers compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto, umbrella, and excess and surplus coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace. International International underwrites property and casualty coverages on a global basis through a branch operation in Canada, a European business consisting of insurance companies based in the United Kingdom and Luxembourg and Hardy, CNA s Lloyd s of London ( Lloyd s ) syndicate. 6 Table of Contents Property Casualty Structure CNA s commercial property casualty underwriting operations presence in the United States of America ( U.S. ) consists of field underwriting locations and centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. CNA s claim operations presence in the U.S. consists of primary locations where it handles multiple claim types and key business functions, as well as regional claim offices which are aligned with CNA s underwriting field structure. CNA also has property casualty underwriting operations in Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) and Continental Europe, as well as access to business placed at Lloyd s through Syndicate 382. Other Insurance Operations Other Insurance Operations include CNA s run-off long-term care business as well as structured settlement obligations not funded by annuities related to certain property and casualty claimants, certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses in run-off, including CNA Re, A EP, a legacy portfolio of excess workers compensation ( EWC ) policies and certain legacy mass tort reserves. Regulation Current Regulation: The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Regulatory oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital adequacy and the type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations requiring rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets or payments may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfers or payments. As CNA s insurance operations are conducted in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to a number of regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of CNA s operations. These include but are not limited to, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA s global group-wide supervisor), the U.K. Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada, the Luxembourg insurance regulator Commissariat aux Assurances and the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Domestic insurers are also required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. Further, domestic insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers compensation second injury funds, and by industry organizations that assist in the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup certain of these assessments from policyholders. Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can affect the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to terrorism and natural catastrophe exposures, federal financial services reforms and certain tax reforms. Hardy, a specialized Lloyd s underwriter, is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd s, which is the franchisor for all Lloyd s operations. The Council of Lloyd s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plan of each syndicate is subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates. Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA s European operations and are enacted by the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union ( E.U. ). Additionally, the 7 Table of Contents International Association of Insurance Supervisors ( IAIS ) continues to develop capital requirements as more fully discussed below. Regulation Outlook: The IAIS has adopted a Common Framework ( ComFrame ) for the supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups ( IAIGs ) which is focused on the group-wide supervision of IAIGs, such as CNA. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS has developed a global capital standard that, if adopted in the U.S., would be applicable to U.S.-based IAIGs. Certain elements of ComFrame were incorporated into regulatory guidelines issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) for application by regulators beginning in 2023. These additions were adopted for the purpose of streamlining group-wide supervision, further leveraging existing risk and solvency measures and applying them on a group-wide basis. The NAIC has developed an approach to group capital regulation and solvency-monitoring activities using the Group Capital Calculation ( GCC ). While historically the U.S. regulatory regime was primarily based on legal entity regulation, the GCC quantifies risk across the insurance group. The GCC was adopted by the NAIC along with model legislative language and attendant regulations, which have been adopted in a number of U.S. states where IAIGs are domiciled, including Illinois. Alongside the GCC, the NAIC has also developed the Aggregation Method ( AM ) approach to assessing group capital as an alternative to the Insurance Capital Standard ( ICS ) developed by the IAIS. The AM is influenced by the GCC and calculated in a similar manner. A decision by the IAIS on whether the AM provides comparable outcomes to the ICS is expected in 2024. In addition, the U.S. and foreign regulatory environment in which CNA operates is continuously evolving, with both existing and prospective regulations that implicate aspects of its corporate governance, risk management practices, public disclosures, ESG related issues, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. Properties: CNA s principal executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA s subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space. BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, Boardwalk Pipelines ) is engaged in the business of transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as NGLs ). Boardwalk Pipelines also provides ethane supply and transportation services for industrial customers in Louisiana and Texas. Boardwalk Pipelines accounted for 10.3%, 10.3% and 9.2% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. ( BPHC ) owns, directly and indirectly, 100% of the general partner and limited partnership interests of Boardwalk Pipelines. On September 29, 2023, Boardwalk Pipelines acquired 100% of the equity interests of Williams Olefins Pipeline Holdco LLC ( Bayou Ethane ) from Williams Field Services Group, LLC for $355 million in cash. For further information, see the Boardwalk Pipelines portion of the Operating Results section of MD A in Item 7 . Boardwalk Pipelines owns and operates approximately 13,455 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving customers in thirteen states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns and operates approximately 855 miles of NGL pipelines in Louisiana and Texas. In 2023 , its pipeline systems transported approximately 3.7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and approximately 98.5 million barrels ( MMBbls ) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas pipeline systems during 2023 was approximately 10.0 billion cubic feet ( Bcf ). Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas storage facilities are comprised of fourteen underground storage fields located in four states with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 199.5 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipelines NGL storage facilities consist of eleven salt dome caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 31.2 MMBbls. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns nine salt dome caverns and related brine infrastructure for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations. Boardwalk Pipelines principal pipeline and storage systems are described below: The Gulf South Pipeline Company, LLC ( Gulf South ) pipeline system runs approximately 7,210 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 10.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2023 was 6.5 Bcf per day. Gulf South has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 78.0 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt dome natural gas storage 8 Table of Contents caverns in Mississippi have approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns. The Texas Gas Transmission, LLC ( Texas Gas ) pipeline system, a bi-directional pipeline, runs approximately 5,970 miles and is located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 6.1 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2023 was 3.3 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity. Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream, LLC, Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline, LLC and Boardwalk Ethane Pipeline Company, LLC (collectively Louisiana Midstream ) provide transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, ethane supply services, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 47.9 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 310 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline ( Evangeline ), which is an approximately 180-mile interstate ethylene pipeline that is capable of transporting approximately 4.2 billion pounds of ethylene per year between Texas and Louisiana, with interconnections with its ethylene distribution system. Louisiana Midstream also owns and operates the Bayou Ethane Pipeline, an approximately 380-mile pipeline system originating in Texas, that transports ethane to Southeast Texas and Louisiana. The Bayou Ethane Pipeline provides interstate and intrastate transportation services, with interconnections with its NGL storage facilities. The Bayou Ethane Pipeline has the ability to deliver approximately 55.0 MMBbls of ethane per year. Throughput for Louisiana Midstream was 98.5 MMBbls for the year ended December 31, 2023, including Bayou Ethane Pipeline s throughput of 9.2 MMBbls from the date of acquisition. In 2023 , Boardwalk Pipelines placed into service approximately $166 million of growth projects which represents approximately 0.3 Bcf per day of firm natural gas transportation capacity and additional capacity on its ethylene pipeline systems. As discussed above, in 2023 Boardwalk Pipelines also acquired Bayou Ethane for $355 million in cash. Boardwalk Pipelines expects to spend approximately $310 million on its growth projects currently under construction through 2025. These projects are expected to add another approximately 0.5 Bcf per day of firm natural gas transportation capacity and additional NGLs capacity. These projects are expected to serve increased natural gas demand from power generation plants and liquids demand from petrochemical facilities. All of Boardwalk Pipelines growth projects are secured by long-term firm contracts. Customers: Boardwalk Pipelines serves a broad mix of customers, including end-use customers, such as electric power generators, local distribution companies, industrial users and exporters of liquefied natural gas ( LNG ). Boardwalk Pipelines also contracts with other customers, including producers and marketers of natural gas and interstate and intrastate pipelines, who, in turn, provide transportation and storage services for end-users. These customers are located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S. Boardwalk Pipelines delivery market has diversified over time, with increased deliveries to end-use customers, whereas, historically its delivery markets were primarily to other pipelines who then delivered to end-use customers. Governmental Regulation: The FERC regulates Boardwalk Pipelines interstate natural gas transmission operating subsidiaries under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 ( NGA ) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ( NGPA ). The FERC regulates, among other things, the rates and charges for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce and the construction, extension, enlargement or abandonment of facilities under its jurisdiction. Where required, Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas pipeline subsidiaries hold certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC covering certain of their facilities, activities and services. The maximum applicable rates that Boardwalk Pipelines FERC-regulated subsidiaries may charge for all aspects of the natural gas transportation services they provide, are established through the FERC s cost-based rate-making process; however, the FERC also allows for discounted or negotiated rates as an alternative to cost-based rates. Key determinants in the FERC s cost-based rate-making process are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. The maximum applicable rates that may be charged by Boardwalk Pipelines for storage services on Texas Gas, except for services associated with a portion of the working gas capacity on that system, are also established through the FERC s cost-based rate-making process. The FERC has authorized Boardwalk Pipelines to charge market-based rates for its firm and interruptible storage services for the majority of its other natural gas storage facilities. None of Boardwalk Pipelines FERC-regulated entities currently have an obligation to file a new rate case. Some of Boardwalk Pipelines other subsidiaries transport natural gas in intrastate commerce under the rules and regulations established by the Texas Railroad Commission and in interstate commerce that is subject to FERC jurisdiction under Section 311 of the NGPA. The maximum rates for services are established under Section 311 of the NGPA and are generally subject to review every five years by the FERC. The rates and terms of service on Boardwalk Pipelines interstate 9 Table of Contents ethane transportation pipeline are also subject to regulation by the FERC under, among other statutes, the Interstate Commerce Act ( ICA ) and the Energy Policy Act of 1992. Over time, the FERC may change, amend or announce that it will undertake a review of its existing policies. There were no major policy changes announced by the FERC during 2023. The FERC has authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA and NGPA, and the implementing regulations thereunder, up to a maximum amount that is adjusted annually for inflation, which for 2024 is approximately $1.5 million per day per violation. Should Boardwalk Pipelines fail to comply with applicable statutes, rules, regulations and orders administered by the FERC, it could be subject to substantial penalties and fines, in addition to reputational damage. The Surface Transportation Board ( STB ) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for interstate service on its ethylene pipeline systems. The Louisiana Public Service Commission ( LPSC ) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for intrastate service within the state of Louisiana on its petrochemical and NGL pipelines. The STB and LPSC require that Boardwalk Pipelines transportation rates are reasonable and that its practices cannot unreasonably discriminate among its shippers. Boardwalk Pipelines is also regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation ( DOT ) through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration ( PHMSA ) under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended ( NGPSA ) and the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, as amended ( HLPSA ). The NGPSA and HLPSA govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of interstate natural gas and NGL pipeline facilities. Boardwalk Pipelines has authority from PHMSA to operate certain natural gas pipeline assets under issued permits with specific conditions that allow it to operate those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline s Specified Minimum Yield Strength ( SMYS ). Operating at these pressures allows these pipelines to transport all the existing natural gas volumes Boardwalk Pipelines has contracted for on those facilities with its customers. PHMSA retains discretion whether to grant or maintain authority for Boardwalk Pipelines to operate its natural gas pipeline assets at higher pressures and, in the event that PHMSA should elect not to allow Boardwalk Pipelines to operate at these higher pressures, it could affect its ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets, and Boardwalk Pipelines could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. PHMSA s regulations also require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain high risk areas, known as high consequence areas ( HCAs ) and moderate consequence areas ( MCAs ), along pipelines and take additional safety measures to protect people and property in these areas. The HCAs for natural gas pipelines are predicated on high-population density areas (which, for natural gas transmission lines, include Class 3 and 4 areas and, depending on the potential impacts of a risk event , may include Class 1 and 2 areas) whereas HCAs along Boardwalk Pipelines NGL pipelines are based on high-population density areas, areas near certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas. Legislation has resulted in more stringent mandates for pipeline safety and has charged PHMSA with developing and adopting regulations that impose increased pipeline safety requirements on pipeline operators. In particular, the NGPSA and HLPSA were amended by the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 ( 2011 Act ), the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 ( 2016 Act ) and, most recently, the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2020 ( 2020 Act ). Each of these laws imposed increased pipeline safety obligations on pipeline operators. The 2011 Act increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines. The 2016 Act, among other things, required PHMSA to complete its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Act and develop new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities. The 2020 Act reauthorized PHMSA through fiscal year 2023 and directed the agency to move forward with several regulatory initiatives, including obligating operators of non-rural gas gathering lines and new and existing transmission and distribution pipeline facilities to conduct certain leak detection and repair programs and to require facility inspection and maintenance plans to align with those requirements. As a result of the 2011 Act, the 2016 Act and the 2020 Act, PHMSA has issued a series of significant rulemakings. In October of 2019, PHMSA published a final rule imposing numerous new requirements on onshore gas transmission pipelines, also known as the Mega Rule, relating to maximum allowable operating pressure ( MAOP ) reconfirmation and exceedance reporting, the integrity assessment of additional pipeline mileage found in MCAs and Class 3 and Class 4 non-HCAs by 2033, and the consideration of seismicity as a risk factor in integrity management. PHMSA published a second final rule in October of 2019 for hazardous liquid transmission and gathering pipelines that significantly extends and expands the reach of certain of its integrity management requirements, and that requires the accommodation of in-line inspection tools by 2039 unless the pipeline cannot be modified to permit such accommodation, increased annual, accident 10 Table of Contents and safety-related conditional reporting requirements, and expanded use of leak detection systems beyond HCAs. Certain aspects of that rule are currently in court review. PHMSA also published final rules during February and July of 2020 that amended the minimum safety requirements related to natural gas storage facilities, including wells, wellbore tubing and casing, and added applicable reporting requirements. In June 2021, PHMSA issued an Advisory Bulletin advising pipeline and pipeline facility operators of applicable requirements to update their inspection and maintenance plans for the elimination of hazardous leaks and minimization of natural gas released from pipeline facilities. PHMSA and state regulators reportedly began their review of these plans in 2022 and in May 2023, published a proposed rule that would enhance requirements for detecting and repairing leaks on new and existing natural gas distribution, gas transmission and gas gathering pipelines. In August 2022, PHMSA published another final rule expanding the Manageme