Item 1. Business. Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business: commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, an 89.6% owned subsidiary); transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a wholly owned subsidiary); and operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary). We also own 52.7% of Altium Packaging LLC, which is engaged in the manufacture of rigid plastic packaging solutions. We have four reportable segments comprised of three individual operating subsidiaries, CNA Financial Corporation, Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP and Loews Hotels Holding Corporation; and the Corporate segment. The Corporate segment is primarily comprised of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries and the operations of Altium Packaging LLC ( Altium Packaging ) through March 31, 2021. On April 1, 2021, we sold 47% of Altium Packaging and following the transaction deconsolidated Altium Packaging. Subsequent to deconsolidation, our investment in Altium Packaging is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Additional financial information on each of our segments is included under Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ). For further information on the deconsolidation of Altium Packaging see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, CNA ) is an insurance holding company. CNA s property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company ( CCC ), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company Limited, Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries ( Hardy ) and CNA Insurance Company (Europe) S.A. CNA accounted for 81.2%, 86.0% and 72.3% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. CNA s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA s services include warranty, risk management, information services and claims administration. CNA s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, both as it relates to rate and service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies, as well as other entities, for both distributors and customers. 5 Table of Contents Property Casualty Operations CNA s commercial property and casualty insurance operations ( Property Casualty Operations ) includes its Specialty, Commercial and International lines of business. Specialty Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups: Management Professional Liability : Management Professional Liability consists of the following coverages and products: professional liability coverages and risk management services to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents, accounting firms and law firms; directors and officers ( D O ), employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages. Specific areas of focus include small and mid-size firms, public as well as privately held firms and not-for-profit organizations; insurance products to serve the health care industry, including professional and general liability as well as associated standard property and casualty coverages. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, dentists, physicians, hospitals, nurses and other medical practitioners. Surety : Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety bonds. Surety provides surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states. Warranty and Alternative Risks : Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and insurance products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles, portable electronic communication devices and other consumer goods. Service contracts are generally distributed by commission-based independent representatives and sold by auto dealerships and retailers in North America to customers in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle or new consumer goods. Additionally, CNA s insurance companies may issue contractual liability insurance policies or guaranteed asset protection reimbursement insurance policies to cover the liabilities of these service contracts issued by affiliated entities or third parties. Commercial Commercial works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance products to all types of insureds, targeting small business, construction, middle markets and other commercial customers. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as workers compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace. International International underwrites property and casualty coverages on a global basis through a branch operation in Canada, a European business consisting of insurance companies based in the United Kingdom and Luxembourg and Hardy, CNA s Lloyd s of London ( Lloyd s ) syndicate. Property Casualty Structure CNA s commercial property casualty underwriting operations presence in the United States of America ( U.S. ) consists of field underwriting locations and centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. CNA s claim operations presence in the U.S. consists of primary locations where it handles multiple claim types and key business functions, as well as regional claim offices which 6 Table of Contents are aligned with CNA s underwriting field structure. CNA also has property casualty underwriting operations in Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) and Continental Europe, as well as access to business placed at Lloyd s through Syndicate 382. Other Insurance Operations Other Insurance Operations include CNA s run-off long term care business as well as structured settlement obligations not funded by annuities related to certain property and casualty claimants, certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses in run-off, including CNA Re, A EP, a legacy portfolio of excess workers compensation ( EWC ) policies and certain legacy mass tort reserves. Regulation Current Regulation: The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Regulatory oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital adequacy and the type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations requiring rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets or payments may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfers or payments. As CNA s insurance operations are conducted in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to a number of regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of CNA s operations. These include but are not limited to, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA s global group-wide supervisor), the U.K. Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada, the Luxembourg insurance regulator Commissariat aux Assurances and the Bermuda Monetary Authority. The U.S. and foreign regulatory environment in which CNA operates is evolving on an ongoing basis and impacts aspects of corporate governance, risk management practices, public disclosures and cyber security. CNA continues to invest in the security of its systems and in its technology infrastructure on an enterprise-wide basis. Domestic insurers are also required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. Further, domestic insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers compensation second injury funds, and by industry organizations that assist in the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup certain of these assessments from policyholders. Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can affect the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to terrorism and natural catastrophe exposures, cybersecurity risk management, federal financial services reforms and certain tax reforms. Hardy, a specialized Lloyd s underwriter, is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd s, which is the franchisor for all Lloyd s operations. The Council of Lloyd s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plan of each syndicate is subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates. Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA s European operations and are enacted by the European Commission, the executive body of the E.U. Additionally, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ( IAIS ) continues to develop capital requirements as more fully discussed below. 7 Table of Contents Regulation Outlook: The IAIS has adopted a Common Framework ( ComFrame ) for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups ( IAIGs ) which is focused on the effective group-wide supervision of internationally active insurance groups, such as CNA. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS is developing a global insurance capital standard for insurance groups. While the general parameters of ComFrame have been finalized, many critical areas of the global insurance capital standard are still under consideration. Certain jurisdictional regulatory regimes are subject to revision in response to these global developments. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) has developed an approach to group capital regulation and solvency-monitoring activities using the Group Capital Calculation ( GCC ). While the current U.S. regulatory regime is based on legal entity regulation, the GCC will quantify risk across the insurance group and also provide additional financial information to regulators to assess the financial condition of non-insurance entities. The GCC was adopted by the NAIC along with model legislative language designed to enable the framework once implemented by state legislatures. Alongside the GCC, the NAIC is also working with other interested jurisdictions, both domestic and international, to develop an Aggregation Method ( AM ) approach to assessing group capital. The AM is influenced by the GCC and calculated in a similar manner. By 2024, the IAIS will be assessing whether the AM provides comparable outcomes to the consolidated group insurance capital standard ( ICS ) being developed for use with IAIGs. There have also been definitive developments with respect to prudential insurance supervision unrelated to the IAIS activities. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Trade Representative ( USTR ) and the E.U. announced they had formally signed a covered agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance ( U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement ). The U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement requires U.S. states to prospectively eliminate the requirement that domestic insurance companies must obtain collateral from E.U. reinsurance companies that are not licensed in their state (alien reinsurers) in order to obtain reserve credit under statutory accounting. In exchange, the E.U. will not impose local presence requirements on U.S. firms operating in the E.U., and effectively must defer to U.S. group capital regulation for these firms. On December 18, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department, the USTR, and the U.K. announced they formally signed the Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance ( U.S.-U.K. Covered Agreement ). This Agreement has similar terms as the U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement. Because these covered agreements are not self-executing, U.S. state laws will need to be revised to change reinsurance collateral requirements to conform to the provisions within each of the agreements. The reinsurance collateral requirement change must be effected by the states within five years from the signing of the covered agreements , which is September 1, 2022, or states risk federal preemption in this area. CNA has been monitoring the modification of state laws and regulations in order to comply with the provisions of the covered agreements and assess potential effects on its operations and prospects. The current expectation is that the necessary state statutory changes will be adopted by the deadline. The advancement of environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) frameworks intended to promote sustainable and inclusive development of insurance markets has been an area of focus for standard setters and regulatory bodies at the state, federal and international level. CNA continues to monitor the expansion of policy in this area and has established an internal ESG Committee and task force to seek to ensure compliance with future regulation, and assess and seek to implement best practices in response to the emerging guidance. Properties: CNA s principal executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA s subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space. BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, Boardwalk Pipelines ) is engaged in the business of transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as NGLs ). Boardwalk Pipelines accounted for 9.2%, 10.3% and 8.7% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. ( BPHC ) owns, directly and indirectly, 100% of the general partner and limited partnership interests of Boardwalk Pipelines. Boardwalk Pipelines owns and operates approximately 13,615 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving customers in thirteen states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns and operates approximately 450 miles of NGL pipelines in Louisiana and Texas. In 2021 , its pipeline systems transported approximately 3.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and approximately 90.4 million barrels ( MMBbls ) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas pipeline systems during 2021 was approximately 9.4 billion cubic feet ( Bcf ). 8 Table of Contents Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas storage facilities are comprised of fourteen underground storage fields located in four states with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 213.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipelines NGL storage facilities consist of eleven salt dome caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 32.1 MMBbls. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns nine salt dome caverns and related brine infrastructure for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations. Boardwalk Pipelines principal pipeline and storage systems are described below: The Gulf South Pipeline Company, LLC ( Gulf South ) pipeline system runs approximately 7,365 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 10.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2021 was 6.2 Bcf per day. Gulf South has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 91.5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi have approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns. The Texas Gas Transmission, LLC ( Texas Gas ) pipeline system, a bi-directional pipeline, runs approximately 5,970 miles and is located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 5.8 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2021 was 3.2 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity. Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream, LLC and Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline, LLC (collectively Louisiana Midstream ) provide transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 48.7 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 285 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline ( Evangeline ), which is an approximately 180 mile interstate ethylene pipeline that is capable of transporting approximately 4.2 billion pounds of ethylene per year between Texas and Louisiana, with interconnections with its ethylene distribution system. Throughput for Louisiana Midstream was 90.4 MMBbls for the year ended December 31, 2021. In 2021 , Boardwalk Pipelines placed into service approximately $137 million of growth projects which primarily represents approximately 0.2 Bcf per day of firm natural gas transportation capacity, compressor station modernization and additional NGLs infrastructure. Boardwalk Pipelines expects to spend approximately $410 million on its growth projects currently under construction through 2024 and will add approximately 0.6 Bcf per day of firm natural gas transportation capacity and additional NGLs infrastructure. Those projects are expected to serve increased natural gas demand from power generation plants and liquids demand from petrochemical facilities. All of Boardwalk Pipelines growth projects are secured by long-term firm contracts. Customers: Boardwalk Pipelines serves a broad mix of customers, including end-use customers, such as local distribution companies, electric power generators, exporters of liquefied natural gas ( LNG ) and industrial users, producers and marketers of natural gas and interstate and intrastate pipelines, who, in turn, provide transportation and storage services for end-users. These customers are located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S. Boardwalk Pipelines delivery market has diversified over time, with increased deliveries to end-use customers, whereas, historically its delivery markets were primarily to other pipelines who then delivered to end-use customers. Governmental Regulation: The FERC regulates Boardwalk Pipelines interstate natural gas transmission operating subsidiaries under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 ( NGA ) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ( NGPA ). The FERC regulates, among other things, the rates and charges for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce and the construction, extension, enlargement or abandonment of facilities under its jurisdiction. Where required, Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas pipeline subsidiaries hold certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC covering certain of their facilities, activities and services. The maximum rates that Boardwalk Pipelines FERC-regulated subsidiaries may charge for all aspects of the natural gas transportation services they provide, are established through the FERC s cost-based rate-making process. Key determinants in the FERC s cost-based rate-making process are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. The maximum rates that may be charged by Boardwalk Pipelines for storage services on Texas Gas, except for services associated with a portion of the working gas capacity on that system, are also established through the FERC s cost-based rate-making process. The FERC has authorized Boardwalk Pipelines to charge market-based rates for its firm and interruptible storage services for the majority of its other natural gas 9 Table of Contents storage facilities. None of Boardwalk Pipelines FERC-regulated entities currently have an obligation to file a new rate case and Gulf South is prohibited from filing a rate case until May 1, 2023, subject to certain exceptions. Some of Boardwalk Pipelines other subsidiaries transport natural gas in intrastate commerce under the rules and regulations established by the Texas Railroad Commission and in interstate commerce that is subject to FERC jurisdiction under Section 311 of the NGPA. The maximum rates for services are established under Section 311 of the NGPA and are generally subject to review every five years by the FERC. The FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry ( NOI ) on April 19, 2018 ( 2018 NOI ) initiating a review of its policies on certification of natural gas pipelines, including an examination of its long-standing Policy Statement on Certification of New Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Facilities ( 1999 Policy Statement ), issued in 1999, that is used to determine whether to grant certificates for new pipeline projects. On February 18, 2021, the FERC issued another NOI ( 2021 NOI ), reopening its review of the 1999 Policy Statement. Comments on the 2021 NOI were due on May 26, 2021, and although the FERC has not taken any further action regarding the 2018 NOI or 2021 NOI, Boardwalk Pipelines is unable to predict what, if any, changes may be proposed as a result of the NOIs that will affect its natural gas pipeline operations or when such proposals, if any, might become effective. The Surface Transportation Board ( STB ) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for interstate service on its ethylene pipelines. The Louisiana Public Service Commission ( LPSC ) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for intrastate service within the state of Louisiana on its petrochemical and NGL pipelines. The STB and LPSC require that Boardwalk Pipelines transportation rates are reasonable and that its practices cannot unreasonably discriminate among its shippers. Boardwalk Pipelines is also regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation ( DOT ) through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration ( PHMSA ) under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended ( NGPSA ) and the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, as amended ( HLPSA ). The NGPSA and HLPSA govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of interstate natural gas and NGL pipeline facilities. Boardwalk Pipelines has authority from PHMSA to operate certain natural gas pipeline assets under issued permits with specific conditions that allow it to operate those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline s Specified Minimum Yield Strength ( SMYS ). Operating at these pressures allows these pipelines to transport all the existing natural gas volumes Boardwalk Pipelines has contracted for on those facilities with its customers. PHMSA retains discretion whether to grant or maintain authority for Boardwalk Pipelines to operate its natural gas pipeline assets at higher pressures and, in the event that PHMSA should elect not to allow Boardwalk Pipelines to operate at these higher pressures, it could affect its ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets, and Boardwalk Pipelines could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. PHMSA s regulations also require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain high risk areas, known as high consequence areas ( HCAs ) and moderate consequence areas ( MCAs ), along pipelines and take additional safety measures to protect people and property in these areas. The HCAs for natural gas pipelines are predicated on high-population density areas (which, for natural gas transmission lines, include Class 3 and 4 areas and, depending on the potential impacts of a risk event , may include Class 1 and 2 areas) whereas HCAs along Boardwalk Pipelines NGL pipelines are based on high-population density areas, areas near certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas. Legislation in the past decade has resulted in more stringent mandates for pipeline safety and has charged PHMSA with developing and adopting regulations that impose increased pipeline safety requirements on pipeline operators. In particular, the NGPSA and HLPSA were amended by the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 ( 2011 Act ), the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 ( 2016 Act ) and, most recently, the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2020 ( 2020 Act ). Each of these laws imposed increased pipeline safety obligations on pipeline operators. The 2011 Act increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines. The 2016 Act, among other things, required PHMSA to complete its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Act and develop new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities. The 2020 Act reauthorized PHMSA through fiscal year 2023 and directed the agency to move forward with several regulatory initiatives, including obligating operators of non-rural gas gathering lines and new and existing transmission and distribution pipeline facilities to conduct certain leak detection and repair programs and to require facility inspection and maintenance plans to align with those requirements. With the adoption of the 2011 Act, the 2016 Act and the 2020 Act, there exist mandates for PHMSA to make pipeline safety requirements more stringent. As a result, PHMSA has issued a series of significant rulemakings. In October of 2019, PHMSA published a final rule imposing numerous new requirements on onshore gas transmission pipelines relating to 10 Table of Contents maximum allowable operating pressure ( MAOP ) reconfirmation and exceedance reporting, the integrity assessment of additional pipeline mileage found in MCAs and Class 3 and Class 4 non-HCAs by 2033, and the consideration of seismicity as a risk factor in integrity management. PHMSA published a second final rule in October of 2019 for hazardous liquid transmission and gathering pipelines that significantly extends and expands the reach of certain o