Item 1. Business. Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business: commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, an 89% owned subsidiary); operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., a 53% owned subsidiary); transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a wholly owned subsidiary); operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary); and manufacture of rigid plastic packaging solutions (Altium Packaging LLC, formerly known as Consolidated Container Company LLC, a 99% owned subsidiary). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to Loews Corporation, the Company, Parent Company, we, our, us or like terms refer to the business of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries. We have five reportable segments comprised of CNA Financial Corporation, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, Loews Hotels Holding Corporation and the Corporate segment. The operations of Altium Packaging LLC are included in the Corporate segment. Each of our operating subsidiaries is headed by a chief executive officer who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and authority commensurate with that position. Additional financial information on each of our segments is included under Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ). CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, CNA ) is an insurance holding company. CNA s property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company ( CCC ), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company Limited, Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries ( Hardy ) and CNA Insurance Company (Europe) S.A. CNA accounted for 72.3%, 72.0% and 69.8% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. CNA s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA s services include warranty, risk management, information services and claims administration. CNA s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups. Property Casualty Operations CNA s commercial property and casualty insurance operations ( Property Casualty Operations ) includes its Specialty, Commercial and International lines of business. Specialty Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups: 3 Table of Contents Management Professional Liability : Management Professional Liability consists of the following coverages and products: professional liability coverages and risk management services to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents, accounting firms and law firms; directors and officers ( D O ), employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages. Specific areas of focus include small and mid-size firms, public as well as privately held firms and not-for-profit organizations; insurance products to serve the health care industry including professional and general liability as well as associated standard property and casualty coverages. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, dentists, physicians, hospitals, nurses and other medical practitioners. Surety : Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety bonds. Surety provides surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states. Warranty and Alternative Risks : Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and insurance products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles, portable electronic communication devices and other consumer goods. Service contracts are generally distributed by commission-based independent representatives and sold by auto dealerships and retailers in North America to customers in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle or new consumer goods. Additionally, CNA s insurance companies may issue contractual liability insurance policies or guaranteed asset protection reimbursement insurance policies to cover the liabilities of these service contracts issued by affiliated entities or third parties. Commercial Commercial works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance products and services to small, middle-market and large businesses. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as workers compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace. These property and casualty products are presented in the following insurance groups: Middle Market, Small Business and Other Commercial insurance groups. International International underwrites property and casualty coverages on a global basis through its two insurance companies based in the United Kingdom and Luxembourg, a branch operation in Canada as well as through CNA s Lloyd s of London ( Lloyd s ) syndicate. Underwriting activities are managed through three business units that operate across all locations: Property and Energy Marine, Casualty and Specialty. International is managed from headquarters in London. Property Casualty Structure CNA s commercial property casualty underwriting operations presence in the United States of America ( U.S. ) consists of field underwriting locations and centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. CNA s claim operations presence in the U.S. consists of primary locations where it handles multiple claim types and key business functions, as well as regional claim offices which are aligned with CNA s underwriting field structure. CNA has property casualty underwriting operations in Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) and Continental Europe, as well as access to business placed at Lloyd s through Syndicate 382. 4 Table of Contents Other Insurance Operations Other Insurance Operations include CNA s long term care business that is in run-off, certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses in run-off, including CNA Re and asbestos and environmental pollution ( A EP ). Other Competition: The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive both as to rate and service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. Accordingly, CNA must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. CNA is one of the largest commercial property and casualty insurance companies in the U.S. Current Regulation: The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Regulatory oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital adequacy and the type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to corporate governance requirements, risk management practices and disclosures and premium rate regulations requiring rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets or payments may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfers or payments. As CNA s insurance operations are conducted in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to a number of regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of CNA s operations. These include but are not limited to, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA s global group-wide supervisor), the U.K. Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada, the Luxembourg insurance regulator Commissariat aux Assurances and the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Domestic insurers are also required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. Further, domestic insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers compensation second injury funds, or by industry organizations that assist in the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup certain of these assessments from policyholders. Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can affect the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to terrorism and natural catastrophe exposures, cybersecurity risk management, federal financial services reforms and certain tax reforms. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019 ( TRIPRA ) provides for a federal government backstop for insured terrorism risks through 2027. The mitigating effect of such law is part of the analysis of CNA s overall risk posture for terrorism and, accordingly, CNA s risk positioning may change if such law was modified. 5 Table of Contents CNA also continues to invest in the security of its systems and network on an enterprise-wide basis. This requires investment of a significant amount of resources by CNA on an ongoing basis. Potential implications of possible cybersecurity legislation on such current investment, if any, are uncertain. The foregoing laws, regulations and proposals, either separately or in the aggregate, create a regulatory and legal environment that may require changes in CNA s business plan or significant investment of resources in order to operate in an effective and compliant manner. Additionally, various legislative and regulatory efforts to reform the tort liability system have, and will continue to, affect the industry. New causes of action and theories of damages continue to be proposed in court actions and by federal and state legislatures that continue to expand liability for insurers and their policyholders. Hardy, a specialized Lloyd s underwriter, is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd s, which is the franchisor for all Lloyd s operations. The Council of Lloyd s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plan of each syndicate is subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates. Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA s European operations and are enacted by the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union ( E.U. ). Additionally, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ( IAIS ) continues to develop capital requirements as more fully discussed below. Regulation Outlook: The IAIS has recently adopted a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups ( ComFrame ) which is focused on the effective group-wide supervision of internationally active insurance groups, such as CNA. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS is developing a global insurance capital standard for insurance groups. While the general parameters of ComFrame have been finalized, many critical areas of the global insurance capital standard are still under consideration. Certain jurisdictional regulatory regimes are subject to revision in response to these global developments. There have also been definitive developments with respect to prudential insurance supervision unrelated to the IAIS activities. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Trade Representative ( USTR ) and the E.U. announced they had formally signed a covered agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance ( U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement ). The U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement requires U.S. states to prospectively eliminate the requirement that domestic insurance companies must obtain collateral from E.U. reinsurance companies that are not licensed in their state (alien reinsurers) in order to obtain reserve credit under statutory accounting. In exchange, the E.U. will not impose local presence requirements on U.S. firms operating in the E.U., and effectively must defer to U.S. group capital regulation for these firms. On December 18, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department, the USTR, and the U.K. announced they formally signed the Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance ( U.S.-U.K. Covered Agreement ). This Agreement has similar terms as the U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement, and will become effective upon the U.K. s exit from the E.U. Because these covered agreements are not self-executing, U.S. state laws will need to be revised to change reinsurance collateral requirements to conform to the provisions within each of the agreements. In addition, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) is currently developing an approach to group capital regulation as the current U.S. regulatory regime is based on legal entity regulation. Both the reinsurance collateral requirement change and adoption of group capital regulation must be effected by the states within five years from the signing of the Covered Agreements, or states risk federal preemption. CNA will monitor the modification of state laws and regulations in order to comply with the provisions of the Covered Agreements and assess potential effects on its operations and prospects. 6 Table of Contents Properties: CNA s principal executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA s subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space. DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC. Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Diamond Offshore ) provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the world with a fleet of 15 offshore drilling rigs consisting of four drillships and 11 semisubmersible rigs. Diamond Offshore accounted for 6.6%, 7.8% and 10.9% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. A floater rig is a type of mobile offshore drilling rig that floats and does not rest on the seafloor. This asset class includes self-propelled drillships and semisubmersible rigs. Semisubmersible rigs are comprised of an upper working and living deck resting on vertical columns connected to lower hull members. Such rigs operate in a semi-submerged position, remaining afloat, off bottom, in a position in which the lower hull is approximately 55 feet to 90 feet below the water line and the upper deck protrudes well above the surface. Semisubmersibles hold position while drilling by use of a series of small propulsion units or thrusters that provide dynamic positioning ( DP ) to keep the rig on location, or with anchors tethered to the seabed. Although DP semisubmersibles are self-propelled, such rigs may be moved long distances with the assistance of tug boats. Non-DP, or moored, semisubmersibles require tug boats or the use of a heavy lift vessel to move between locations. A drillship is an adaptation of a maritime vessel that is designed and constructed to carry out drilling operations by means of a substructure with a moon pool centrally located in the hull. Drillships are typically self-propelled and are positioned over a drillsite through the use of a DP system similar to those used on semisubmersible rigs. Fleet Enhancements: During early 2019, Diamond Offshore completed the reactivation of the Ocean Endeavor , which is currently on contract in the U.K. Diamond Offshore also completed the reactivation and upgrade of the Ocean Onyx in late 2019. As part of the upgrade of the Ocean Onyx , Diamond Offshore increased the rig s lower deck load capability, reduced rig motion response and made other technologically desirable enhancements sought by Diamond Offshore s customers. Diamond Offshore expects the Ocean Onyx to commence operating under a long-term contract in Australia in the second quarter of 2020. In addition, Diamond Offshore added enhanced automation features on two of its drillships, the Ocean BlackHawk and Ocean BlackHornet , during their 2019 shipyard stays for regulatory surveys. Similar projects for its other two drillships are scheduled to be completed in 2020. Diamond Offshore continues to evaluate further rig acquisition and enhancement opportunities as they arise. However, Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance whether, or to what extent, it will continue to make rig acquisitions and enhancements to its fleet. Markets: The principal markets for Diamond Offshore s contract drilling services are: the Gulf of Mexico, including the U.S. and Mexico; South America, principally offshore Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago; Australia and Southeast Asia, including Malaysia, Myanmar and Vietnam; Europe, principally offshore the U.K.; East and West Africa; and the Mediterranean. Drilling Contracts: Diamond Offshore s contracts to provide offshore drilling services vary in their terms and provisions. Diamond Offshore typically obtains its contracts through a competitive bid process, although it is not unusual for Diamond Offshore to be awarded drilling contracts following direct negotiations. Drilling contracts generally provide for a basic dayrate regardless of whether or not drilling results in a productive well. Drilling contracts generally also provide for reductions in rates during periods when the rig is being moved or when drilling operations 7 Table of Contents are interrupted or restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances. Under dayrate contracts, Diamond Offshore generally pays the operating expenses of the rig, including wages and the cost of incidental supplies. Historically, dayrate contracts have accounted for the majority of Diamond Offshore s revenues. In addition, from time to time, Diamond Offshore s dayrate contracts may also provide for the ability to earn an incentive bonus from its customer based upon performance. The duration of a dayrate drilling contract is generally tied to the time required to drill a single well or a group of wells, which Diamond Offshore refers to as a well-to-well contract, or a fixed period of time, in what Diamond Offshore refers to as a term contract. Diamond Offshore s drilling contracts may be terminated by the customer in the event the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for an extended period of time as a result of a breakdown of equipment or, in some cases, due to events beyond the control of either party to the contract. Certain of Diamond Offshore s contracts also permit the customer to terminate the contract early by giving notice; in most circumstances, this requires the payment of an early termination fee by the customer. The contract term in many instances may also be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional length of time, generally subject to mutually agreeable terms and rates at the time of the extension. In periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors may prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers may prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of declining dayrates. Moreover, drilling contractors may accept lower dayrates in a declining market in order to obtain longer-term contracts and add backlog. Customers: Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. During 2019, 2018 and 2017, Diamond Offshore performed services for 12, 13 and 14 different customers. During 2019, 2018 and 2017, Hess Corporation accounted for 29%, 25% and 16% of Diamond Offshore s annual total consolidated revenues, Occidental (formerly Anadarko) accounted for 21%, 34% and 25% of Diamond Offshore s annual total consolidated revenues and Petr leo Brasileiro S.A. accounted for 20%, 16% and 19% of Diamond Offshore s annual total consolidated revenues. During 2018 and 2017, BP accounted for 11% and 16% of Diamond Offshore s annual total consolidated revenues. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Diamond Offshore s annual total consolidated revenues during 2019, 2018 or 2017. As of January 1, 2020, Diamond Offshore s contract backlog was an aggregate $1.6 billion attributable to ten customers, compared to $2.0 billion as of January 1, 2019. Of its current contracted backlog for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, $0.3 billion, $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion or 43%, 44% and 24% are attributable to Diamond Offshore s operations in the Gulf of Mexico from three customers. Competition: Based on industry data as of the date of this Report, there are approximately 760 mobile drilling rigs in service worldwide, including approximately 240 floater rigs. Despite consolidation in previous years, the offshore contract drilling industry remains highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. Some of Diamond Offshore s competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Customers may also consider rig availability and location, a drilling contractor s operational and safety performance record, and condition and suitability of equipment. Diamond Offshore believes it competes favorably with respect to these factors. Diamond Offshore competes on a worldwide basis, but competition may vary significantly by region at any particular time. Competition for offshore rigs generally takes place on a global basis, as these rigs are highly mobile and may be moved, although at a cost that may be substantial, from one region to another. It is characteristic of the offshore drilling industry to move rigs from areas of low utilization and dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. The current oversupply of offshore drilling rigs also intensifies price competition. Governmental Regulation: Diamond Offshore s operations are subject to numerous international, foreign, U.S., state and local laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to its operations, including regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and clean-up under some circumstances, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, and may include laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use. 8 Table of Contents Properties: Diamond Offshore owns an office building in Houston, Texas, where its corporate headquarters are located, and offices and other facilities in New Iberia, Louisiana, Aberdeen, Scotland, Macae, Brazil and Ciudad del Carmen, Mexico. Additionally, Diamond Offshore currently leases various office, warehouse and storage facilities in Australia, Brazil, Louisiana, Malaysia, Singapore and the U.K. to support its offshore drilling operations. BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, Boardwalk Pipelines ) is engaged in the business of natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as NGLs ) transportation and storage. Boardwalk Pipelines accounted for 8.7%, 8.7% and 9.6% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. ( BPHC ) owns, directly and indirectly, the General Partner interest and all of the limited partnership interests of Boardwalk Pipelines. Boardwalk Pipelines owns and operates approximately 13,610 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving customers in 13 states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns and operates approximately 445 miles of NGL pipelines in Louisiana and Texas. In 2019, its pipeline systems transported approximately 2.9 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and approximately 86.6 million barrels ( MMBbls ) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas pipeline systems during 2019 was approximately 8.0 billion cubic feet ( Bcf ). Boardwalk Pipelines natural gas storage facilities are comprised of 14 underground storage fields located in four states with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 205.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipelines NGL storage facilities consist of 11 salt dome storage caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 31.8 MMBbls. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns seven salt dome caverns and related brine infrastructure for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations. Boardwalk Pipelines pipeline and storage systems are described below: The Gulf South Pipeline Company, LLC ( Gulf South ), effective January 1, 2020, converted from a limited partnership to a limited liability company. Immediately subsequent to the conversion, Boardwalk Pipelines Gulf Crossing Pipeline Company LLC, ( Gulf Crossing ) operating subsidiary was merged into Gulf South. The merged pipeline system runs approximately 7,360 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 10.5 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 4.9 Bcf per day. Gulf South has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 83.5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi have approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns. The Texas Gas Transmission, LLC ( Texas Gas ) pipeline system runs approximately 5,980 miles and is located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 5.4 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 3.1 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity. Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream, LLC and Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline, LLC (collectively Louisiana Midstream ) provide transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 48.5 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 285 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline ( Evangeline ), which is an approximately 175 mile interstate ethylene pipeline that is capa