Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 43 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 44 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 Executive Officers of the Registrant 46 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6. [Reserved] 51 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 117 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 117 Item 9B. Other Information 119 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 119 Item 11. Executive Compensation 119 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 120 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 120 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 120 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 121 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 Signatures 125 Table of Contents LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. FORM 10-K Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are based on our management s belief and assumptions about the future in light of information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continue," and similar words or phrases or the negative of these words or phrases. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable when made, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results anticipated by our forward-looking statements, which include, but are not limited to: developments in the U.S. government defense and non-defense budgets, including budget reductions, sequestration, implementation of spending limits or changes in budgetary priorities, delays in the U.S. government budget process or a government shutdown, or the U.S. government s failure to raise the debt ceiling, which increases the possibility of a default by the U.S. government on its debt obligations, related credit-rating downgrades, or an economic recession; uncertainties in tax due to new tax legislation or other regulatory developments; deterioration of economic conditions or weakening in credit or capital markets; uncertainty in the consequences of current and future geopolitical events; inflationary pressures and fluctuations in interest rates; delays in the U.S. government contract procurement process or the award of contracts and delays or loss of contracts as a result of competitor protests; changes in U.S. government procurement rules, regulations and practices, including its organizational conflict of interest rules; increased preference by the U.S. government for minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our compliance with various U.S. government and other government procurement rules and regulations; governmental reviews, audits and investigations of our company; our ability to effectively compete and win contracts with the U.S. government and other customers; our ability to respond rapidly to emerging technology trends, including the use of artificial intelligence; our reliance on information technology spending by hospitals/healthcare organizations; our reliance on infrastructure investments by industrial and natural resources organizations; energy efficiency and alternative energy sourcing investments; investments by U.S. government and commercial organizations in environmental impact and remediation projects; the effects of an epidemic, pandemic or similar outbreak may have on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, and to obtain security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs, including cost increases due to inflation, associated with our firm-fixed-price ("FFP") contracts and other contracts; Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 1 Table of Contents LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. FORM 10-K resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others or legal or regulatory compliance issues; cybersecurity, data security or other security threats, system failures or other disruptions of our business; our compliance with international, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding privacy, data security, protection, storage, retention, transfer, disposal and other processing, technology protection and personal information; the damage and disruption to our business resulting from natural disasters and the effects of climate change; our ability to effectively acquire businesses and make investments; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to manage performance and other risks related to customer contracts; the failure of our inspection or detection systems to detect threats; the adequacy of our insurance programs, customer indemnifications or other liability protections designed to protect us from significant product or other liability claims, including cybersecurity attacks; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar worldwide anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations; our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights; our ability to prevail in litigation brought by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights; our ability to declare or increase future dividends based on our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors, including compliance with applicable law and our agreements; our ability to grow our commercial health and infrastructure businesses, which could be negatively affected by budgetary constraints faced by hospitals and by developers of energy and infrastructure projects; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and our ability to execute our business plan and long-term management initiatives effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements or to conform these statements to actual results. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Leidos Holdings, Inc. ("Leidos"), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiary and principal operating company is Leidos, Inc. Leidos was founded in 1969 by physicist Dr. Robert Beyster. Since our founding 55 years ago, we have applied our expertise in science, research and engineering in rapidly-evolving technologies and markets to solve complex problems of global concern. We use the terms "we," "us" and "our" to refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Leidos, recognized as a member of the Fortune 500 , is a dynamic innovation company that is at the forefront of addressing the world s most challenging issues in national security and health sectors. With a global workforce of approximately 47,000, Leidos is committed to developing smarter technology solutions, particularly for customers in highly regulated industries. We bring domain-specific capabilities and innovations to customers in each of these markets by leveraging five technical core capabilities: digital modernization, cyber operations, mission software systems, integrated systems and mission operations. Applying our technically-advanced solutions to help solve our customers' most difficult problems has enabled us to build strong relationships with key customers. Our customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"), the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), the Department of Veterans Affairs ("VA"), National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA") and many other U.S. civilian, state and local government agencies, foreign government agencies and commercial businesses. With a focus on delivering mission-critical solutions, Leidos generated 87% of revenues for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2023, ("fiscal 2023") from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government. By leveraging expertise in multiple disciplines, tailoring our services and solutions to the particular needs of our targeted markets and using advanced analytics, we work to securely deliver services and solutions that not only meet customers' current goals, but also support their future missions. For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see "Business Environment and Trends" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Business Segments At December 29, 2023, our business has been aligned into three reportable segments (Defense Solutions, Civil and Health). Additionally, we separately present the unallocable costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate. Our operations and reportable segments are organized around the customers and markets we serve. We provide a wide array of scientific, engineering and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments. Approximately 9% of our revenues are generated by entities located outside of the United States. Defense Solutions Defense Solutions has provided leading-edge and technologically advanced services, solutions and products to a broad customer base. Our ever-changing technologies and innovations cover a wide spectrum of markets with primary areas of concentration in digital modernization, mission systems and integration, Command, Control, Computers, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ("C4ISR") technologies and services, maritime solutions, transformative software, analytics, intelligence analysis, mission support and logistics services, weapons systems and space systems and solutions. We are dedicated to delivering cost-effective solutions backed by innovation-generating research and development to meet the evolving missions of our customers. We provide a diverse portfolio of national security solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, the Space Development Agency, NASA, Defense Information Systems Agency ("DISA"), military services, government agencies of U.S. allies abroad and other federal and commercial customers in the national security industry. We are heavily engaged in the top defense Research Development Test and Evaluation priorities that are driven by critical evolving threat-driven needs. Our solutions deliver innovative technology, large-scale systems, command and control platforms, data analytics, logistics and cybersecurity solutions, as well as intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. Defense Solutions represented 56% of total revenues for fiscal 2023, 57% of total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2022 ("fiscal 2022") and 58% of total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"). Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 3 Table of Contents PART I Digital Modernization As an industry leader in cyber and enterprise IT, we provide extensive worldwide digital support for our nation's largest and most critical infrastructure. We design, develop, implement and maintain IT environments to provide stability and flexibility to mission needs. Our capabilities support offerings including cybersecurity, data analytics, and operations and logistics. Our cybersecurity solutions help detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. C4ISR Technologies and Services We offer a wide range of technologies and services in multiple domains that address the nation's most critical threats and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and military services. Our market concentration is on airborne and ground intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ("ISR"), maritime systems, electronic warfare systems, distributed sensor systems, autonomous systems, sensors, Command and Control ("C2"), Joint All-Domain Command and Control ("JADC2") and Multi-Domain Operations. We provide multi-spectral, airborne, ground, maritime and space-based ISR collection, algorithm development and processing systems, advanced sensor design, C2 solutions and training systems. We also provide laser and radio frequency-based communications systems for airborne, ground, naval and space platforms. We link our high-end solutions to other key services demanded by our customers. In the air, we support a fleet of government and Leidos-owned fixed wing, rotary wing and unmanned aircraft. We apply an open architecture approach to digitally connect the joint force across air, land, sea, cyber and space domains in support of the DoD s JADC2 imperative and support through innovative solutions, essential services and enriched data management tools facilitating critical decision making. Maritime Solutions On and under the sea, we offer a wide range of capabilities. We continue to enhance our surface and subsurface autonomous and unmanned technologies to help make maritime operations safer and more efficient for government and industry by providing leading sensor systems, signal processing, communications hardware and software to support these vital missions. In space we provide sensor, algorithm development and integrated payload capabilities to identify and track threats and cue defensive systems. We have developed and delivered full integrated small satellite systems. We are a market leader in submarine collection technologies and anti-submarine warfare system installation and maintenance and are expanding our capabilities in these areas to meet market demand for this growing threat. We also provide prototyping and research and development support services to a wide variety of DoD customers from concept analysis to classified manufacturing. Our Gibbs Cox subsidiary is one of the largest independent naval architecture and marine engineering firm by headcount in the United States. Our naval architecture services span the entire ship s lifetime, from early-stage concept designs through detailed design, shipyard construction support, full lifecycle and sustainment support, ship alterations, service life extensions, and disposal. Our Marine Engineering involves a wide range of activities, beginning with concept and feasibility design and continues through detailed design, construction support, life-cycle support and into ship-alt design for service-life extensions. Transformative Software, Analytics We offer extensive software development capabilities for C2, intelligence and information systems and deliver mission and enterprise-level solutions to the U.S. and allied defense and intelligence organizations. This includes encryption key management, the use of artificial intelligence to automate and streamline processes and the development of software to manage some of the worlds toughest data problems. We offer innovative data analytics capabilities, and we design, develop, integrate, deploy and support information-centric software and enterprise IT systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges for the intelligence community, homeland security and defense customers. Our capabilities are enhanced by our advanced software factories, providing the brainpower to deliver the optimum software solutions for our customer base. Across the U.S. Army we perform complex software development projects, develop training simulators for Army vehicles, maintain and conduct soldier training for field C2 equipment, and we are installing our cloud-based Army base access control system throughout the U.S. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 4 Table of Contents PART I Intelligence Analysis, Mission Support and Logistics Services We deliver high-end services to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and allied governments. Operating throughout the world we provide intelligence analysis, operational support, logistics operations, security, linguistics and training. In addition, we deliver tailored IT services and solutions to our customers across the globe. We offer product support and lifecycle sustainment services to our U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force customers, including planning and managing the cost and performance across the product s lifecycle. We offer reverse engineering, classified manufacturing and design, and threat exploitation services to a wide breadth of U.S. Intelligence Community customers. Weapons Systems We offer tactical weapons components and systems for surface-launched missiles, cruise missiles, air-to-air, air-to-ground and anti-ship missiles and guided munitions and rockets across the DoD. We also deliver offensive boost-glide, launcher and air-breathing systems, thermal protection systems and hypersonic defense systems. We have capabilities in integrated force protection in both directed energy (such as high-energy lasers and microwave systems) and area defense (such as counter-unmanned aviation systems, radar systems, sensors and kinetic weapon launchers). In addition, we provide cyber-physical systems in the development of offensive and defensive cyber command and control, toolkits and exploits, as well as offensive cyber operations. We also support autonomous systems in the areas of unmanned aerial systems, surface ships, undersea vehicles and ground vehicles as well as autonomy software and hardware for autonomous vehicles and platforms. Our unique autonomy algorithms provide decision support for the heavily-burdened warfighter and support coordinated man-autonomous machine operations. Space Systems and Solutions We provide integrated design, manufacturing, integration of human-rated and exploration spacecraft for NASA and commercial customers. We have the capability to design and manufacture space systems and key launch vehicle subsystems such as avionics/mission computing, guidance, navigation and control, boosters and structures. We provide expertise in the design, manufacturing, and integration of satellite propulsion, structures, and space-based EO/IR, multi/hyperspectral, EW/SIGINT and communications payloads. Civil Our Civil business has been focused on modernizing infrastructure, systems and security for government and commercial customers both domestically and internationally. By applying leading science, innovative technologies and business acumen, our talented employees help customers achieve their missions and take on the connected world with data-driven insights, improved efficiencies and technological advantages in the areas of digital modernization, energy infrastructure, integrated missions, transportation applications and security detection. Civil represented 24% of total revenues for both fiscal 2023 and 2022, and 23% of total revenues for fiscal 2021. Transportation Solutions Leidos is a trusted systems developer, service provider and integrator serving Air Navigation Service Providers around the world, including the FAA. We provide air traffic control systems that help manage the world's most complex airspace. We deliver many of the FAA's key automation systems and services, including the En Route Automation Modernization ("ERAM"), Advanced Technologies and Oceanic Procedures ("ATOP"), Time Based Flow Management, Terminal Flight Data Manager, Enterprise-Information Display System, Geo-7 and Future Flight Services. Leidos received 10+ year extensions to the ERAM and ATOP contracts for continued delivery of the evolving National Airspace System needs. In addition, under the Mode S Beacon Replacement Systems contract, Leidos is supporting the replacement of the FAA's Mode S Beacon Systems, which are secondary surveillance radar capable of providing surveillance and specific aircraft information necessary to support Air Traffic Control automation in all traffic environments. We also provide key air traffic control systems around the world, including New Zealand and South Korea. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 5 Table of Contents PART I Security Enterprise Solutions ("SES") Leidos is an industry leader of fully-integrated security detection solutions, making security screening and checkpoints safer for aviation, ports and borders, and critical infrastructure customers around the world. With more than 24,000 products deployed across over 120 countries, the SES business has the most widespread global footprint within the Civil Group portfolio. We are a leader in aviation screening equipment, computed tomography carry-on baggage scanners, people scanners and explosive trace detectors, facilitating secure and efficient passenger movement in airports worldwide. We also have cutting-edge screening technologies for checked baggage and cargo. Leidos is the leading supplier of mobile non-intrusive inspection systems to U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("CBP"). For CBP, and other global customers, we help to safeguard the flow of travel and trade through solutions that effectively detect and mitigate threats across all trade elements, including cargo, vehicles and people. Leidos is also transforming security detection beyond aviation and ports of entry to help government agencies and the private sector secure public venues and critical infrastructures. Digital Transformation We deliver secure, user-centric IT solutions in cloud computing, mobility, application modernization, DevOps, data center and network modernization, asset management, help desk operations and digital workplace enablement. We help our customers achieve their missions and business goals by delivering purpose-built solutions, cybersecurity as a standard, efficient project delivery and end-user satisfaction. We accelerate enterprise transformation using customizable roadmaps and repeatable processes, enabling customers to effectively use their resources and advance their objectives. Using our cyber expertise, we continually enhance our techniques and processes to build systems that operate resiliently in the face of evolving cyber threats. Leidos is modernizing enterprise IT in classified and unclassified environments, including programs with the FAA, NASA, Department of Justice, IRS, U.S. MINT, Department of Commerce, FTC, and HUD. Climate, Energy and Environment We are trusted by government agencies and commercial customers with substantial environmental and sustainability driven-missions. Our reputation across climate science, environmental management and operations, nuclear security, power grid engineering, energy efficiency, infrastructure management, mission support and IT modernization provides the applicable expertise needed to transform operations while modernizing aging infrastructure and maintaining environmental stewardship. We support the critical missions of the Department of Energy ("DoE"), National Nuclear Security Administration, National Science Foundation, utilities, energy investors and developers, energy efficiency administrators and commercial industrial customers. At the DoE Hanford site, we provide site-wide infrastructure management and operation, including oversight of land and logistics, public works, information technology, fleet transportation, environmental sustainability, and compliance, first responder services and future project planning. At the National Energy Technology Laboratory, we actively conduct and support fundamental and applied research efforts, including providing product and logistical support comprising strategic business development, technology transfer and agreements and education and outreach support for the effective and efficient execution of research programs. In addition, we help investor-owned utilities and industrial customers modernize power delivery systems for improved reliability, implement energy management strategies, support vehicle electrification, transform digital infrastructure and gain operational efficiencies to meet evolving energy needs and climate change goals. Health Our Health business has been focused on delivering effective and affordable solutions to federal and commercial customers that are responsible for the health and well-being of people worldwide, including service members and veterans. Our solutions enable customers to deliver on the health mission of providing high-quality, cost-effective care, and are accomplished through the integration of information technology, engineering, life sciences, health services, clinical insights and health policy. The capabilities we provide predominantly fall in four major areas of activity: health information management services, managed health services, digital modernization and life sciences research and development. Health represented 20% of total revenues for fiscal 2023, and 19% of total revenues for both fiscal 2022 and 2021. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 6 Table of Contents PART I Health Information Management Services Leidos employs holistic-systems thinking in fielding applied technology solutions across the entire continuum of healthcare. In our work delivering a single, common electronic health record to both DoD and VA hospitals and treatment facilities worldwide, our responsibilities range from integrating software for the electronic healthcare record vendor and dental record vendors to integrating picture archiving and communications software and more. We support cybersecurity across all integrated systems. We also provide enterprise IT solutions to the VA, National Institutes of Health ("NIH"), DoD and other federal health customers to help operate mission critical infrastructure reliably and at a reasonable cost. Managed Health Services We deploy a national footprint of health clinics and health providers to support care delivery services, including medical disability and behavioral health examinations for the VA, as well as serving other independent medical exam markets. We have developed unique capabilities in behavioral health management through many decades of experience with a special emphasis on substance abuse services and non-medical counseling. We believe that these capabilities can be expanded into other clinical adjacencies. Our managed health services activities leverage our IT and mission enablement capabilities, which underpin solutions we offer to our customers across all of our served markets. Digital Modernization We manage the entire lifecycle of the IT journey for our customers. Our expertise includes IT strategic planning, outsourcing and management of large-scale data centers, agile software development and system transformation, cloud migration and application modernization, digitization and big data management and advanced analytics. Our customers include the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services, Food and Drug Administration, Social Security Administration, VA, Defense Health Agency ("DHA") and commercial customers. Leidos helps transform our customers' technology environments in support of their most critical missions, accomplished in a highly secure manner by leveraging our cybersecurity domain expertise and our Leidos rapid application development software platform. Life Sciences Research Development We provide life science research and development support to the NIH, Center for Disease Control, Army Medical Research community and commercial biotech companies. Most notably, on behalf of the U.S. government and the public trust, we operate the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, where we employ thousands of scientists, technicians, administrators and support staff. Our professionals operate a wide range of leading-edge research and development laboratories in the areas of genetics and genomics, proteins and proteomics, advanced biomedical computing and information technology, biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing, nanotechnology characterization and clinical trials management. From the biomedical sciences to implementing and optimizing electronic health records and enabling providers to perform care coordination and population health management, Leidos is pioneering the use of the depth and breadth of systems integration principles, processes and technologies to transform the health industry s evolution towards better quality and