Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 Executive Officers of the Registrant 31 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B. Other Information 108 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 108 Item 11. Executive Compensation 108 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 108 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 109 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 109 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 110 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 115 Signatures 116 Table of Contents LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. FORM 10-K Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are based on our management s belief and assumptions about the future in light of information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continue," and similar words or phrases or the negative of these words or phrases. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable when made, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results anticipated by our forward-looking statements, which include, but are not limited to: the impact of the coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19") or future epidemics on our business, including the potential for facility closures, re-evaluation of U.S. government spending levels and priorities, delay of new contract awards, our ability to recover costs under contracts, the availability, acceptance and efficacy of vaccinations and laws and regulations with respect to vaccinations and insurance challenges; developments in the U.S. government defense and non-defense budgets, including budget reductions, sequestration, implementation of spending limits or changes in budgetary priorities, or delays in the U.S. government budget process or approval of raising the debt ceiling; uncertainties in tax due to new tax legislation or other regulatory developments; rates of inflation; delays in the U.S. government contract procurement process or the award of contracts and delays or loss of contracts as a result of competitor protests; changes in U.S. government procurement rules, regulations and practices; our compliance with various U.S. government and other government procurement rules and regulations; governmental reviews, audits and investigations of our company; our ability to effectively compete and win contracts with the U.S. government and other customers; our reliance on information technology spending by hospitals/healthcare organizations; our reliance on infrastructure investments by industrial and natural resources organizations; energy efficiency and alternative energy sourcing investments; investments by U.S. government and commercial organizations in environmental impact and remediation projects; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, and to obtain security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price ("FFP") contracts and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others or legal or regulatory compliance issues; cybersecurity, data security or other security threats, system failures or other disruptions of our business; our compliance with international, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding privacy, data security, protection, storage, retention, transfer and disposal, technology protection and personal information; the damage and disruption to our business resulting from natural disasters and the effects of climate change; Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 1 Table of Contents LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. FORM 10-K our ability to effectively acquire businesses and make investments; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to manage performance and other risks related to customer contracts; the failure of our inspection or detection systems to detect threats; the adequacy of our insurance programs, customer indemnifications or other liability protections designed to protect us from significant product or other liability claims, including cybersecurity attacks; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights; our ability to prevail in litigation brought by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights; our ability to declare or increase future dividends based on our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors, including compliance with applicable law and our agreements; our ability to grow our commercial health and infrastructure businesses, which could be negatively affected by budgetary constraints faced by hospitals and by developers of energy and infrastructure projects; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and our ability to execute our business plan and long-term management initiatives effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements or to conform these statements to actual results. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Leidos Holdings, Inc. ("Leidos"), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiary and principal operating company is Leidos, Inc. Leidos was founded in 1969 by physicist Dr. Robert Beyster. Since our founding 53 years ago, we have applied our expertise in science, research and engineering in rapidly-evolving technologies and markets to solve complex problems of global concern. We use the terms "we," "us" and "our" to refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Leidos is a FORTUNE 500 technology, engineering, and science company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets, both domestically and internationally. We bring domain-specific capabilities and innovations to customers in each of these markets by leveraging five technical core competencies: digital modernization, cyber operations, mission software systems, integrated systems and mission operations. Applying our technically-advanced solutions to help solve our customers' most difficult problems has enabled us to build strong relationships with key customers. Our customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"), the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), the Department of Veterans Affairs ("VA") and many other U.S. civilian, state and local government agencies, foreign government agencies and commercial businesses. With a focus on delivering mission-critical solutions, Leidos generated 87% of revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021") from U.S. government contracts. By leveraging expertise in multiple disciplines, tailoring our services and solutions to the particular needs of our targeted markets and using advanced analytics, we work to securely deliver services and solutions that not only meet customers' current goals, but also support their future missions. For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see "Business Environment and Trends" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Business Segments At December 31, 2021, our business is aligned into three reportable segments (Defense Solutions, Civil and Health). Additionally, we separately present the unallocable costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate. Our operations and reportable segments are organized around the customers and markets we serve. We provide a wide array of scientific, engineering and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments. Less than 8% of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located outside of the United States. Defense Solutions Defense Solutions provides leading-edge and technologically advanced services, solutions and products to a broad customer base. Our ever-changing technologies and innovations cover a wide spectrum of markets with primary areas of concentration in digital transformation, Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ("C4ISR") technologies and services, transformative software, analytics, intelligence analysis, mission support and logistics services, weapons systems and human space exploration. We are dedicated to delivering cost-effective solutions backed by innovation-generating research and development to meet the evolving missions of our customers. We provide a diverse portfolio of national security solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA"), Defense Information Systems Agency ("DISA"), military services, government agencies of U.S. allies abroad and other federal and commercial customers in the national security industry. Our solutions deliver innovative technology, large-scale systems, command and control platforms, data analytics, logistics and cybersecurity solutions, as well as intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. Defense Solutions represented 58% of total revenues for fiscal 2021, 60% of total revenues for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2021 ("fiscal 2020") and 57% of total revenues for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2020 ("fiscal 2019"). Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 3 Table of Contents PART I Digital Transformation As an industry leader in enterprise IT, we provide extensive worldwide digital support operations for our nation's largest and most critical infrastructure. We design, develop, implement and maintain IT environments to provide stability and flexibility to mission needs. Our capabilities support offerings including cybersecurity, data analytics, and operations and logistics. Our cybersecurity solutions help detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. C4ISR Technologies and Services We offer a wide range of technologies and services in multiple domains that address the nation's most critical threats and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and military services. Our market concentration is on airborne and ground intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ("ISR"), maritime systems, electronic warfare systems, distributed sensor systems, autonomous systems, sensors and Command and Control ("C2"). We provide multi-spectral, airborne, ground and maritime ISR collection and processing systems, advanced sensor design, C2 solutions and training systems. We also provide laser and radio frequency-based communications systems for airborne, ground, naval and space platforms. We link our high-end solutions to other key services demanded by our customers. In the air, we support a fleet of over 100 government and Leidos-owned fixed wing, rotary wing and unmanned aircraft. On the ground, we provide mission-critical Command, Control and ISR and support through innovative solutions, essential services and enriched data management tools facilitating critical decision making. On and under the sea, we continue to enhance our surface and subsurface autonomous and unmanned technologies to help make maritime operations safer and more efficient for government and industry by providing leading sensor systems, signal processing, communications hardware and software to support these vital missions. We are among the market leaders in submarine collection technologies and anti-submarine warfare system installation and maintenance and are expanding our capabilities in these areas to meet market demand for this growing threat. We also provide prototyping and research and development support services to a wide variety of DoD customers from concept analysis to classified manufacturing. Transformative Software, Analytics We offer extensive software development capabilities for C2, intelligence and information systems and deliver mission and enterprise-level solutions to the U.S. and allied defense and intelligence organizations. We offer innovative data analytics capabilities and we design, develop, integrate, deploy and support information-centric software and enterprise IT systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges. Our capabilities are enhanced by our advanced software factories, providing the brainpower to deliver the optimum software solutions for our customer base. Across the U.S. Army we perform complex software development projects, develop training simulators for Army vehicles, maintain and conduct soldier training for field C2 equipment, and we are installing our cloud-based Army base access control system throughout the U.S. Intelligence Analysis, Mission Support and Logistics Services We deliver high-end services to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and allied governments. Operating throughout the world we provide intelligence analysis, operational support, logistics operations, security, linguistics and training. In addition, we deliver tailored IT services and solutions to our customers across the globe. We offer product support and lifecycle sustainment services to our U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force customers including planning and managing the cost and performance across the product s lifecycle. We deliver turn-key logistics support to U.S. and key allies and we provide enterprise solutions, including large-scale, end-to-end supply chain optimization and modernization. Weapons Systems We offer tactical weapons components and systems for surface-launched missiles, cruise missiles, air-to-air, air-to-ground and anti-ship missiles and guided munitions and rockets across the DoD. We also deliver offensive boost-glide, launcher and air-breathing systems and hypersonic defense systems. We have capabilities in integrated force protection in both directed energy (such as high-energy lasers and microwave systems) and area defense (such as counter-unmanned aviation systems, radar systems and kinetic weapon launchers). In addition, we provide cyber-physical systems in the development of offensive and defensive cyber command and control, toolkits and exploits, as well as offensive cyber operations. We also support autonomous systems in the areas of unmanned aerial systems, surface ships, undersea vehicles and ground vehicles as well as autonomy software and hardware for autonomous vehicles and platforms. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 4 Table of Contents PART I Human Space Exploration We provide integrated design, manufacturing, integration of human-rated and exploration spacecraft for NASA and commercial customers. We have the capability to design and manufacture for satellite propulsion, structures and avionics and key launch vehicle subsystems such as avionics/mission computing, guidance, navigation and control, boosters and structures. Civil Our Civil business is focused on modernizing infrastructure, systems and security for government and commercial customers both domestically and internationally. By applying leading science, innovative technologies and business acumen, our talented employees help customers achieve their missions and take on the connected world with data-driven insights, improved efficiencies and technological advantages in the areas of transportation solutions, security detection and automation, digital transformation services and environment, energy and infrastructure. Civil represented 23% of total revenues for fiscal 2021, 24% of total revenues for fiscal 2020 and 25% of total revenues for fiscal 2019. Transportation Solutions Leidos is a trusted systems developer, service provider and integrator serving Air Navigation Service Providers around the world, including the FAA. We provide air traffic control systems that help manage the world's most complex airspace. We deliver many of the FAA's key automation systems and services, including the En Route Automation Modernization ("ERAM"), Advanced Technology Oceanic Procedures ("ATOP"), Time Based Flow Management, Terminal Flight Data Management, Enterprise-Information Display System, Geo-7 and Future Flight Services. Leidos recently received 10+ year extensions to the ERAM and ATOP contracts for continued delivery of the evolving National Airspace System needs. In addition, under the Mode S Beacon Replacement Systems contract, Leidos is supporting the replacement of the FAA's Mode S Beacon Systems, which are secondary surveillance radar capable of providing surveillance and specific aircraft information necessary to support Air Traffic Control automation in all traffic environments. We also provide key air traffic control systems around the world, including New Zealand and South Korea. Security Detection and Automation Our comprehensive suite of fully-integrated security detection and automation solutions help increase security for aviation, ports and borders and critical infrastructure customers around the world. With more than 24,000 products deployed across over 120 countries, this business has the most widespread global footprint within the Civil portfolio. Leveraging this portfolio, our core technical strengths and robust research and development initiatives, we are positioned to address emerging and evolving threats through rapid development of innovative solutions for our global customers. We are also a leader in aviation screening equipment, facilitating secure and efficient passenger movement through fully-integrated solutions in airports worldwide. Our aviation solutions include best-in-class checkpoint computed tomography, people scanners, explosive trace detectors and checked baggage screening. For ports and borders worldwide, Leidos is helping safeguard the flow of regulated commerce through innovations in screening technologies, common interfaces and artificial intelligence and machine learning to effectively detect and mitigate threats across all trade elements, including cargo, vehicles and people. We are the leading supplier of mobile non-intrusive inspection systems to U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("CBP"). Leidos implemented the CBP Port of the Future pilot at Brownsville, Texas border crossing aimed at achieving CPB cargo and privately-owned vehicle border screening goals. In addition, we are transforming security detection beyond ports of entry to deliver fully-integrated and frictionless security solutions for public venues and critical infrastructure. Digital Transformation We deliver secure, user-centric IT solutions in cloud computing, mobility, application modernization, DevOps, data center and network modernization, asset management, help desk operations and digital workplace enablement. We help our customers achieve their missions and business goals by delivering purpose-built solutions, cybersecurity as a standard, efficient project delivery and end-user satisfaction. Leidos is modernizing enterprise IT in classified and unclassified environments, including programs with the FAA, NASA, IRS and the Department of Justice. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 5 Table of Contents PART I Climate, Energy and Environment We are trusted by government agencies and commercial customers with substantial environmental and sustainability driven missions. Our reputation across environmental management, nuclear security, energy efficiency, infrastructure management, mission support and IT modernization provides the applicable expertise needed to transform operations while modernizing aging infrastructure and maintaining environmental stewardship. We support the critical missions of the Department of Energy ("DoE"), National Nuclear Security Administration, National Science Foundation, utilities, energy investors and developers and energy efficiency administrators. At the DoE Hanford site, we provide site-wide infrastructure management and operation including oversight of land and logistics, public works, information technology, fleet transportation, environmental sustainability and compliance, first responder services and future project planning. At the National Energy Technology Laboratory, we actively perform and provide support for fundamental and applied research efforts, including providing product and logistical support comprising of strategic business development, technology transfer and agreements and education and outreach support for the effective and efficient conduct of research. In addition, we help investor-owned utilities modernize power delivery systems, implement energy management strategies, transform digital infrastructure and gain operational efficiencies to meet evolving energy needs. Health Our Health business focuses on delivering effective and affordable solutions to federal and commercial customers that are responsible for the health and well-being of people worldwide, including service members and veterans. Our solutions enable customers to deliver on the health mission of providing high-quality, cost-effective care, and are accomplished through the integration of information technology, engineering, life sciences, health services, clinical insights and health policy. The capabilities we provide predominantly fall in four major areas of activity: health information management services, managed health services, digital transformation and life sciences research and development. Health represented 19% of total revenues for fiscal 2021, 16% of total revenues for fiscal 2020 and 18% of total revenues for 2019. Health Information Management Services Leidos employs holistic-systems thinking in fielding applied technology solutions across the entire continuum of healthcare. In our work delivering a single, common electronic health record to both DoD and VA hospitals and treatment facilities worldwide, our responsibilities range from integrating software for the electronic healthcare record vendor and dental record vendors to integrating picture archiving and communications software and more. We support cybersecurity across all integrated systems. We also provide enterprise IT solutions to the VA, National Institutes of Health ("NIH"), DoD and other federal health customers to help operate mission critical infrastructure reliably and at a reasonable cost. Commercially, we are leveraging these same Leidos-wide capabilities to manage critical infrastructure to one of the largest health systems in the United States. Managed Health Services We deploy a national footprint of health clinics and health providers to support care delivery services, including medical disability and behavioral health examinations for the VA, as well as serving other independent medical exam markets. We have developed unique capabilities in behavioral health management through many decades of experience with a special emphasis on substance abuse services. We believe that these capabilities can be expanded into other clinical adjacencies. Our managed health services activities leverage our IT and mission enablement capabilities, which underpin solutions we offer to our customers across all of our served markets. Digital Transformation We manage the entire lifecycle of the IT journey for our customers. Our expertise includes IT strategic planning, outsourcing and management of large scale data centers, agile software development and system transformation, cloud migration and application modernization, digitization and big data management and advanced analytics. Our customers include the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services, Food and Drug Administration, Social Security Administration, VA, Defense Health Agency ("DHA") and commercial customers. Leidos helps transform our customers' IT environments in support of their most critical missions, accomplished in a highly secure manner by leveraging our cybersecurity domain expertise and our Leidos rapid application development software platform. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 6 Table of Contents PART I Life Sciences Research Development We provide life science research and development support to the NIH, Center for Disease Control, Army Medical Research community and commercial biotech companies. Most notably, on behalf of the U.S. government and the public trust, we operate the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, where we employ thousands of scientists, technicians, administrators and support staff. Our professionals operate a wide range of leading-edge research and development laboratories in the areas of genetics and genomics, proteins and proteomics, advanced biomedical computing and information technology, biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing, nanotechnology characterization and clinical trials management. From the biomedical sciences to implementing and optimizing electronic health records and enabling providers to perform care coordination and population health management, Leidos is pioneering the use of the depth and breadth of systems integration principles, processes and technologies to transform the health industry s evolution towards better quality and more efficient and effective care. Corporate Corporate includes the operations of various corporate activities, certain expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. government customers and certain other expense items excluded from a reportable segment's performance. Acquisitions and Divestitures During fiscal 2021, we completed the acquisitions of Gibbs Cox, 1901 Group, LLC, and an immaterial strategic business acquisition. During fiscal 2020, we completed the acquisitions of L3Harris Technologies' ("L3Harris") security detection and automation businesses and Dynetics, Inc. Additionally, during fiscal 2019, we completed the acquisition of acquired IMX Medical Management Services and its affiliated businesses. See "Note 5 Acquisitions and Divestitures" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. During fiscal 2021, we signed a definitive agreement to dispose of Aviation Missile Solutions LLC within our Defense Solutions segment. During fiscal 2019, we divested of our commercial cybersecurity and health staff augmentation businesses. For further information, see "Note 5 Acquisitions and Divestitures" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Key Customers The majority of our revenues are generated in the United States. Our consolidated revenues are largely attributable to prime contracts or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government, with the remaining attributable to international customers, including the U.K. Ministry of Defence and Australian Ministry of Defence, and customers across a variety of commercial markets. Within the U.S. government, our revenues are diversified across many agencies, including various intelligence agencies, the U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force, DHS, DISA, FAA, Transportation Security Administration, CBP, DHA, VA, Department of Health and Human Services, NASA, National Science Foundation, DoE, the Environmental Protection Agency and research agencies such as Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. These customers have a number of subsidiary agencies that have separate budgets and procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers. Human Capital Employee and Workforce Demographics As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 43,000 full and part-time employees of whom approximately 39,000 are located in the United States and the remainder of which are located in more than 39 countries worldwide. Approximately 35% of our employees have degrees in science, technology, engineering or mathematics fields, approximately 22% of our employees have advanced degrees, 49% of our employees possess U.S. security clearances and approximately 20% of o