Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 20 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 111 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 111 Item 9B. Other Information 114 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 Item 11. Executive Compensation 114 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 114 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 115 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117 Signatures 118 Financial Statement Schedule 121 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview of Lennar Corporation We are the largest homebuilder in the United States in terms of consolidated revenues and earnings, an originator of residential and commercial mortgage loans, a provider of title insurance and closing services and a developer of multifamily rental properties. In addition, we are involved in ventures, and have interests in companies, that are engaged in applying technology to improve the homebuilding industry and real estate related aspects of the financial services industry. Our homebuilding operations are the most substantial part of our business, generating $20.8 billion in revenues, or approximately 93% of consolidated revenues, in fiscal 2019 . As of November 30, 2019 , our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other had divisions located in: East: Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina , Pennsylvania and South Carolina Central: Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Tennessee and Virginia Texas: Texas West: Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington Other: Urban divisions and other homebuilding related investments primarily in California, including Five Point Holdings, LLC ("FivePoint") Our other reportable segments are Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other. Financial information about our Homebuilding, Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other operations is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report. Effective for the first quarter of 2019, Lennar Corporation (the Company ) realigned the composition of its segments due to the sale of its former Rialto Capital Management investment and asset management platform ( Rialto ). As a result of this realignment, the Company s Rialto segment was renamed Lennar Other . Additionally, the Company s Rialto Mortgage Finance ( RMF ) business moved from the Lennar Other segment to the Financial Services segment. The Company also moved its strategic investments from Homebuilding Other to the Lennar Other segment. Prior period segment financial information has been reclassified to conform to the fiscal year 2019 presentation. About Our Company Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971 and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in a number of homebuilding markets, including California, Florida and Texas, through both organic growth and acquisitions, such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets. From 2010 through 2013, we expanded our homebuilding operations into Georgia, Oregon, Washington and Tennessee. In 2017, we acquired WCI Communities, Inc. ("WCI"), a homebuilder of luxury single and multifamily homes, including a small number of luxury high-rise tower units, in Florida. In 2018, we acquired CalAtlantic Group, Inc. ("CalAtlantic"), a major homebuilder which was building homes across the homebuilding spectrum, from entry level to luxury, in 43 metropolitan statistical areas spanning 19 states, and providing mortgage, title and escrow services. As a result, we became the nation's largest homebuilder in terms of consolidated revenues, with fiscal year 2019 consolidated revenues of $22.3 billion . We are continuing our pivot to a land light operating model by controlling the timing of land purchases, reducing our years owned supply of homesites and increasing the percentage of land controlled through options or agreements versus owned land. We are focused on increasing the efficiencies in our building process and reducing selling, general and administrative expenses by using technology and innovative strategies to reduce customer acquisition costs. We have been focusing on monetizing non-core assets and migrating toward being more of a pure-play homebuilding and financial services company. At the end of fiscal 2018 and the early part of 2019, we disposed of our Rialto Management Group, the majority of our retail title business, our title insurance underwriting business, our Florida real estate brokerage business and the majority of our business of offering residential mortgages to non-Lennar homebuyers. In addition to our core operating platforms, Homebuilding and Financial Services, we have also been focusing on maximizing the value of our Multifamily business and our strategic investments in technology companies that are looking to improve the homebuilding industry and real estate related aspects of the financial services industry. 1 Table of Contents Homebuilding Operations Overview Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. New home deliveries, including deliveries from unconsolidated entities, were 51,491 in fiscal 2019 , compared to 45,627 in fiscal 2018 and 29,394 in fiscal 2017 . The increases in fiscal 2019 and 2018 resulted in part from the acquisition of CalAtlantic in February 2018. We primarily sell single-family attached and detached homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up, active adult, and luxury homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home varies depending on product and geographic location. For fiscal 2019 , the average sales price, excluding deliveries from unconsolidated entities, was $400,000 , compared to $413,000 in fiscal 2018 and $376,000 in fiscal 2017 . We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name. Our homebuilding mission is focused on the profitable development of residential communities. Key elements of our strategy include: Strong Operating Margins - We believe our purchasing leverage combined with our focus on reducing selling, general and administrative costs by using technology and innovative strategies and reducing interest expense through paydowns of debt position us for strong operating margins. Everything s Included Approach - We are focused on distinguishing our products, including through our Everything s Included approach, which maximizes our purchasing power, enables us to include luxury features as standard items in our homes and simplifies our homebuilding operations. Innovative Homebuilding - We are constantly innovating the homes we build to create products that better meet our customers' needs and desires. Our Next Gen home, or a home within a home, provides a unique new home solution for multi-generational households as homebuyers often need to accommodate children and parents to share the cost of their mortgage and other living expenses. Flexible Operating Structure - Our local operating structure gives us the flexibility to make operating decisions based on local homebuilding conditions and customer preferences, while our centralized management structure provides oversight for our homebuilding operations. Digital Marketing - We are increasingly advertising homes through digital channels, which is significantly increasing the efficiency of our marketing efforts. Strategic partners and investments - We partner with and/or invest in technology companies that are looking to improve the homebuilding and financial services industries to better serve our customers and increase efficiencies. Land light strategy - We are focused on controlling the timing of land purchases, reducing our years owned supply of homesites and increasing the percentage of land controlled through options or agreements versus owned land. Diversified Program of Property Acquisition We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land purchases are subject to specified underwriting criteria and are made through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of: Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders; Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets; Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) or unconsolidated entities in which we have investments until we have determined whether to exercise the options; Acquiring access to land through joint ventures or partnerships, which among other benefits, limits the amount of our capital invested in land while helping to ensure our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; Investing in regional developers in exchange for preferential land purchase opportunities; and Acquiring land in conjunction with Multifamily. At November 30, 2019 , we owned 209,032 homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional 104,210 homesites, of which 81,887 homesites were through option contracts with third parties and 22,323 homesites were through option contracts with unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2018 , we owned 201,648 homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional 68,623 homesites, of which 59,289 homesites were through option contracts with third parties and 9,334 homesites were through option contracts with unconsolidated entities in which we had investments. We are in the process of reducing our reliance on land we own and increasing our access to land through options and joint ventures. 2 Table of Contents Construction and Development Through our own efforts and those of unconsolidated entities in which Homebuilding has investments, we are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. We use independent subcontractors for most aspects of home construction. At November 30, 2019 , we were actively building and marketing homes in 1,283 communities, including five communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities. This was a decrease from the 1,329 communities, including five communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities, in which we were actively building and marketing homes at November 30, 2018 . We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price and time schedules and in compliance with applicable building codes and laws. The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. Although homebuilders throughout the country have sometimes encountered shortages of materials and skilled labor, because of our size we have been less affected by these shortages than many of our competitors. We believe that the current availability of raw materials and labor to our subcontractors are in most locations adequate for our planned levels of operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations and corporate debt. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Marketing We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up, active adult, luxury and multi-generational homebuyers in a variety of locations ranging from urban infill communities to suburban golf course communities. Our Everything s Included marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by including luxury items as standard features at competitive pricing, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified construction process, product standardization and volume purchasing. In addition, we include built in wireless capability, home automation and solar power in many of the homes we sell, which enhances our brand and improves our ability to generate traffic and sales. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed. We employ new home consultants who are paid salaries, commissions or both to conduct on-site sales of our homes. We also sell homes through independent realtors. Our marketing strategy has increasingly involved advertising through digital channels including real estate listing sites, paid search, display advertising, social media and e-mail marketing, all of which drive traffic to our website, www.lennar.com. This has allowed us to attract more qualified and knowledgeable homebuyers and has helped us reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of home sales revenues. However, we also continue to advertise through more traditional media on a limited basis, including newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional publications and on billboards where appropriate. We tailor our marketing strategy and message based on the community being advertised and the customers being targeted, such as advertising our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live or will potentially want to purchase. Quality Service We continually strive to improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. We strive to create a quality home buying experience for our customers through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, as well as use of technology to simplify the homebuying and financing process. We believe this leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes, and by other similar factors. We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies. Local Operating Structure and Centralized Management We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Our local operating structure consists of homebuilding divisions across the country, each of which is usually managed by a division president, a controller 3 Table of Contents and personnel focused on land acquisition, entitlement and development, sales, construction, customer service and purchasing. This local operating structure gives our division presidents and their teams, who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry, and in most instances, in their particular markets, the flexibility to make local operating decisions, including land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current sales volume, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes. We centralize at the corporate level decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems. Backlog Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of 16% in 2019 and 15% in 2018 . We do not recognize revenue on homes that are the subject of sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners. The backlog dollar value including unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2019 was $6.3 billion , compared to $6.6 billion at November 30, 2018 . We expect that a substantial portion of all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year 2020 . Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities We create and participate in joint ventures that acquire and develop land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in the ventures' own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduce the amount we invest in potential future homesites, thereby reducing risks associated with land acquisitions and improving the return on our investments, and, in some instances, we obtain access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. As of November 30, 2019 and 2018 , we had equity investments in 50 and 51 Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively, in which we were participating, and our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures was $10.8 million and $65.7 million , respectively. This is discussed in greater detail in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. FivePoint - We own an approximately 40% interest in FivePoint, which is a publicly traded developer of three large master planned mixed-use developments in California (Newhall Ranch, Great Park Neighborhoods, and the San Francisco Shipyard and Candlestick Point). We sometimes purchase properties from FivePoint for use in our homebuilding operations. Three of the eleven directors of FivePoint are officers of Lennar. As of November 30, 2019 , the carrying amount of our investment in FivePoint was $374.0 million . Solar Business Our solar business is focused on providing homeowners through solar purchases or lease programs, high-efficiency solar power systems that generate much of a home's annual expected energy needs. In fiscal 2019 , Sunstreet operated in California, Colorado, Florida, Maryland, Nevada, South Carolina, and Texas. Financial Services Operations Residential Mortgage Financing We offer conforming conventional, FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other home mortgage products primarily to buyers of our homes through our financial services subsidiary, Eagle Home Mortgage, LLC, from locations in most of the states in which we have homebuilding operations. In fiscal year 2019 , our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 76% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as from independent mortgage lenders, we believe almost all credit worthy potential purchasers of our homes have access to financing. During fiscal year 2019 , we originated approximately 34,800 residential mortgage loans totaling $10.9 billion , compared to 36,500 residential mortgage loans totaling $11.1 billion during fiscal year 2018 . Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market, a majority of them on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Occasional claims of this type are a normal incident of loan securitization activities. We do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. 4 Table of Contents We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse facilities or from our operating funds. At November 30, 2019 , Financial Services had four warehouse facilities maturing at various dates through fiscal 2020 with a total maximum aggregate commitment of $1.8 billion including an uncommitted amount of $1.2 billion . We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. If they are not renewed or replaced, we would have to find other sources of funding our mortgage originations, which might include our own funds. We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We have been using new technology to automate portions of our mortgage loan origination process. This has reduced our origination costs from approximately $8,400 per loan in the fourth quarter of 2018 to approximately $5,600 per loan in the fourth quarter of 2019. This new technology has also made the mortgage financing process easier for homebuyers and improved the customer experience. Title, Insurance and Closing Services During fiscal year 2019, we sold to States Title the majority of our retail title insurance business and underwriting business in return for, among other consideration, an ownership interest in States Title. We retained our title agency business that provides services to our homebuyers and rebranded it as CalAtlantic Title. Also during fiscal year 2019, we sold our insurance agency subsidiary, North American Advantage Insurance Services, LLC, which had provided our homebuyers and others with personal lines, property and casualty insurance products. During 2019 , we provided title insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others in approximately 59,700 real estate transactions in 32 states, through CalAtlantic Title compared to approximately 118,000 real estate transactions during 2018 . Before the sales transactions disclosed above, we also provided approximately 19,800 title underwriter policies and 23,700 insurance policies compared to approximately 297,600 title underwriter policies and 69,800 insurance policies during 2018 . Title and closing services are provided in 32 states. Commercial Mortgage Origination Our RMF subsidiary originates and sells into securitizations first mortgage loans, which are secured by income producing commercial properties. RMF also originates floating rate loans secured by commercial real estate properties, many of which are in transition, undergoing lease-up, sell-out, renovation or repositioning. In order to finance RMF lending activities, as of November 30, 2019 , RMF had five warehouse repurchase financing agreements maturing between December 2019 and November 2020 with commitments totaling $900 million , which includes $50 million for floating rate loans. Prior to the sale of our Rialto Management Group on November 30, 2018, RMF was part of the Rialto operations. RMF is now included as part of Financial Services. Multifamily Operations We have been actively involved, primarily through unconsolidated entities, in the development, construction and property management of multifamily rental properties. Our Multifamily segment focuses on developing a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets. Our Multifamily segment is one of the largest developers of apartment communities across the country. At November 30, 2019 , it had interests in 63 communities with development costs of approximately $7.4 billion , of which 31 communities were completed and operating, six communities were partially completed and leasing, 20 communities were under construction and the remaining communities were owned by the joint ventures. As of November 30, 2019 , our Multifamily segment also had a pipeline of potential future projects, which were under contract or had letters of intent, totaling approximately $4.5 billion in anticipated development costs across a number of states that will be developed primarily by unconsolidated entities. Our Multifamily segment had equity investments in 19 and 22 unconsolidated entities (including the Multifamily Ventures, described below) as of November 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. During the year ended November 30, 2019 , our Multifamily segment sold, through its unconsolidated entities, two operating properties and an investment in an operating property resulting in the segment's $28.1 million share of gains. During the year ended November 30, 2018 , our Multifamily segment sold, through its unconsolidated entities, six operating properties and an investment in an operating property resulting in the segment's $61.2 million share of gains. Originally, our Multifamily segment focused on building multifamily properties and selling them shortly after they were completed. However, more recently we have focused on creating and participating in ventures that build multifamily properties with the intention of retaining them after they are completed. The Lennar Multifamily Venture Fund I LP ("LMV I") is a long-term multifamily development investment vehicle involved in the development, construction and property management of class-A multifamily assets with $2.2 billion in equity commitments, including a $504 million co-investment commitment by us comprised of cash, undeveloped land and preacquisition costs. As of November 30, 2019 , $2.1 billion of the 5 Table of Contents $2.2 billion in equity commitments had been called, of which we had contributed our share of $485.5 million , resulting in a remaining equity commitment by us of $18.5 million . In June 2019, the Multifamily segment completed the final closing of Lennar Multifamily Venture Fund II LP ("LMV II") which has approximately $1.3 billion of equity commitments, including a $381 million co-investment commitment by us comprised of cash, undeveloped land and preacquisition costs. As of November 30, 2019 , $582.3 million of the $1.3 billion in equity commitments had been called. As of November 30, 2019 , LMV II included 16 undeveloped multifamily assets totaling approximately 5,600 apartments with projected project costs of approximately $2.4 billion . For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Lennar Other Rialto Fund Investments Until November 30, 2018, we had a group of subsidiaries, including Rialto Capital Management, LLC, that primarily managed real estate related investment funds and other real estate related investment vehicles. We sold the Rialto Management Group on November 30, 2018, however, we retained the right to receive carried interest distributions from some of the funds and other investment vehicles it manages. We also retained limited partner investments in Rialto funds and investment vehicles that totaled $236.7 million as of November 30, 2019 , and are committed to invest as much as an additional $13.1 million in Rialto funds. The limited partner investments we retained are now included in our Lennar Other segment (see Note 10 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements). Strategic Technology Investments We strategically invest in technology initiatives that, among other things, help us enhance the homebuying experience, reduce our SG A expenses and stay at the forefront of homebuilding innovation. Our strategic investments include Opendoor, a company that uses technology to streamline the home buying and selling process; Blend, a company that provides a digital mortgage application platform; Hippo Analytics, a company that provides home insurance in a more efficient and effective way; States Title, a company that built a predictive analytics platform for title insurers; and Notarize, a company that provides online notarizations. At November 30, 2019 , our investment in strategic technology ventures was $285.7 million, which was included in our Lennar Other and Financial Services segments. Seasonality We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. Our homebuildi