Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Reserved 21 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 79 Item 9B. Other Information 81 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 81 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 81 Item 11. Executive Compensation 81 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 81 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 81 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 81 Part IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 84 Signatures 85 Financial Statement Schedule 87 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Overview of Lennar Corporation We are the largest homebuilder in the United States by net earnings, an originator of residential and commercial mortgage loans, a provider of title insurance and closing services and a developer of multifamily rental properties. In addition, we are a sponsor and manager of funds engaged in development and ownership of multifamily rental properties and a sponsor and manager of a fund engaged in ownership of single family rental properties. We also have investments in companies that are engaged in applying technology to improve the homebuilding industry and real estate related aspects of the financial services industry. Our homebuilding operations are the most substantial part of our business, generating $25.5 billion in revenues, or approximately 94% of consolidated revenues, in fiscal 2021. As of November 30, 2021, our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other had divisions located in: East: Florida, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and South Carolina Central: Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia Texas: Texas West: Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington Other: Urban divisions and other homebuilding related investments primarily in California, including Five Point Holdings, LLC ("FivePoint") Our other reportable segments are Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other. Financial information about our Homebuilding, Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other operations is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report. About Our Company Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971 and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in a number of homebuilding markets, including California, Florida and Texas, through both organic growth and acquisitions, such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets. From 2010 through 2013, we expanded our homebuilding operations into Georgia, Oregon, Washington and Tennessee. In 2017, we acquired WCI Communities, Inc., a homebuilder of luxury single and multifamily homes, including a small number of luxury high-rise tower units, in Florida. In 2018, we acquired CalAtlantic Group, Inc. ("CalAtlantic"), a major homebuilder which was building homes across the homebuilding spectrum, from entry level to luxury, in 43 metropolitan statistical areas spanning 19 states, and providing mortgage, title and escrow services. In fiscal 2020, as the coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic caused the shutdown of large portions of our national economy, we accelerated the use of various technology initiatives that made our home sale process safer, including selling homes virtually or through self-guided tours and digital closings. As a robust housing market took shape in the second half of 2020 and throughout 2021, technology initiatives helped us meet strong housing demand and reduce our marketing and other selling costs. We are focused on increasing efficiencies in our building process and reducing selling, general and administrative expenses by using technology, deferring home sale price commitments until construction costs are finalized to protect against cost escalations and using innovative strategies to reduce customer acquisition costs. We also continue to focus on divesting non-core assets through a planned spin-off to our stockholders of our Multifamily and single-family home rental platforms and some investment assets. This will continue our migration toward being more of a pure homebuilding and financial services company. In addition, we are continuing our pivot to a land light operating model by increasing the percentage of land controlled through options or agreements versus owned land and controlling the timing of land purchases, which reduce our years supply of owned homesites. Homebuilding Operations Overview Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through entities in which we have investments. New home deliveries, including deliveries from unconsolidated entities, were 59,825 in fiscal 2021, compared to 52,925 in fiscal 2020 and 51,491 in fiscal 2019. We primarily sell homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up, active adult, and luxury homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home varies depending on product and geographic location. For fiscal 2021, the average sales price, excluding deliveries from unconsolidated entities, was $424,000, compared to $395,000 in fiscal 2020 and $400,000 in fiscal 2019. 1 Table of Contents We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name. Our homebuilding mission is focused on the profitable development of residential communities. Key elements of our strategy include: Strong Operating Margins - We believe our purchasing leverage combined with our focus on reducing selling, general and administrative costs by using technology and innovative strategies and reducing interest expense through paydowns of debt position us for strong operating margins. Everything s Included Approach - We are focused on distinguishing our products, including through our Everything s Included approach, which maximizes our purchasing power, enables us to include luxury features as standard items in our homes and simplifies our homebuilding operations. Innovative Homebuilding - We are constantly innovating the homes we build to create products that better meet our customers' needs and desires. Our Next Gen home provides what can be a home within a home to accommodate children or parents or can be an office from which to work remotely. Flexible Operating Structure - Our local operating structure gives us the flexibility to make operating decisions based on local homebuilding conditions and customer preferences, while our centralized management structure provides strategic oversight for our homebuilding operations. Digital Marketing - We are increasingly advertising homes through digital channels, which is significantly increasing the cost effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Technology Focused - We partner with and/or invest in technology companies that are looking to improve the homebuilding and financial services industries to increase efficiencies and create a better customer experience. Land light strategy - We are focused on reducing our years supply of owned homesites and increasing the percentage of land we control through options or agreements, including agreements with strategic land funds, versus owned land. Diversified Program of Property Acquisition We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land purchases are subject to specified underwriting criteria and are made through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of: Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers, or other homebuilders; Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets; Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including strategic land funds) or entities in which we have investments until we have determined whether to exercise the options; Acquiring access to land through joint ventures or partnerships, which among other benefits, limits the amount of our capital invested in land while helping to ensure our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; Investing in regional developers in exchange for preferential land purchase opportunities; and Acquiring land in conjunction with Multifamily. We are in the process of further reducing our reliance on land we own and increasing our access to land through options and joint ventures. At November 30, 2021, 59% of our total homesites were controlled through options and joint ventures compared to 39% at November 30, 2020. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Construction and Development We are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. We use independent subcontractors for most aspects of home construction. At November 30, 2021, we were actively building and marketing homes in 1,263 communities, including four communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities. This was an increase from the 1,177 communities, including four communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities, in which we were actively building and marketing homes at November 30, 2020. Even though our community count increased in 2021, the number of homes we built was limited by shortages of both construction materials and skilled labor. We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price and time schedules and in compliance with applicable building codes and 2 Table of Contents laws. The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. Although we, like homebuilders throughout the country, have encountered shortages of materials and skilled labor during 2021, we believe that because of our size and our builder of choice program, where we work with our trade partners to drive efficiencies, we believe we have been less affected by these shortages than many of our competitors. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations and historically from proceeds of corporate debt. Marketing We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up, active adult, luxury and multi-generational homebuyers in a variety of locations ranging from urban infill communities to suburban golf course communities. Our Everything s Included marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by including luxury items as standard features at competitive prices, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified construction process, product standardization and volume purchasing. In addition, we include built in wireless capability, home automation and solar power in many of the homes we sell, which enhances our brand and improves our ability to generate traffic and sales. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed. We employ new home consultants who are paid salaries, commissions or both to conduct on-site sales of our homes. We also sell homes through independent realtors. We have also made it possible for potential homebuyers to take virtual tours of model homes. Our marketing strategy has increasingly involved advertising through digital channels including real estate listing sites, paid search, display advertising, social media and e-mail marketing, all of which drive traffic to our website, www.lennar.com. This has allowed us to attract more qualified and knowledgeable homebuyers and has helped us reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of home sales revenues. However, we also continue to advertise through more traditional media on a limited basis, including newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional publications and on billboards where appropriate. We tailor our marketing strategy and message based on the community being advertised and the customers being targeted, such as advertising our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live or will potentially want to purchase. Quality Service We continually strive to improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. We strive to create a quality home buying experience for our customers through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, as well as use of technology to simplify the homebuying and financing process. We believe this leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes, and by other similar factors. We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies. Local Operating Structure and Centralized Management We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Our local operating structure consists of homebuilding divisions across the country, each of which is usually managed by a division president, a controller and personnel focused on land acquisition, entitlement and development, sales, construction, customer service and purchasing. This local operating structure gives our division presidents and their teams, who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry, and in most instances, in their particular markets, the flexibility to make local operating decisions, including land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current sales volume, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes. We centralize at the corporate level decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems. Backlog Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of 10% in 2021 and 15% in 2020. We do not recognize revenue on homes that are the subject of sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners. 3 Table of Contents The backlog dollar value including unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2021 was $11.4 billion, compared to $7.8 billion at November 30, 2020. We expect that a substantial portion of all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year 2022. During fiscal year 2021, because of the concern about increasing labor and material costs, we, in many instances, deferred entering into contracts to sell homes and committing to the sales price until the costs of the homes were determined, which usually was shortly before construction began. This had the effect of reducing the number of homes subject to sales contracts at any particular time. Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities We create and participate in joint ventures that acquire and develop land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in the ventures' own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduce the amount we invest in potential future homesites, thereby reducing risks associated with land acquisitions and improving the return on our investments, and, in some instances, we obtain access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. As of November 30, 2021 and 2020, we had equity investments in 41 and 38 active homebuilding and land unconsolidated entities, respectively, in which we were participating, and our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures was $5.3 million and $4.9 million, respectively. This is discussed in greater detail in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Single Family Rental Operations In the first quarter of 2021, the Company formed the Upward America Venture ( Upward America ), and is managing and participating in Upward America. Upward America is an investment fund that acquires new single-family homes in high growth markets across the United States and rents them to the people who will live in them. Upward America has raised equity commitments totaling $1.25 billion primarily from institutional investors, including $125 million committed by Lennar. By leveraging these equity investments, Upward America will be positioned to acquire over $4.0 billion of new single-family homes and townhomes from Lennar and potentially other homebuilders. During the year ended November 30, 2021, Lennar delivered 1,457 homes to Upward America. Subsequent to November 30, 2021, the equity commitments were increased to $1.6 billion. FivePoint Holdings LLC We own an indirect approximately 40% interest in FivePoint Holdings LLC, which is a publicly traded developer of three large master planned mixed-use developments in California (Newhall Ranch, Great Park Neighborhoods, and San Francisco Shipyard/Candlestick Point). We sometimes purchase properties from FivePoint for use in our homebuilding operations. Until recently, we had no role in the management of FivePoint, except that our Executive Chairman was a member of its Board. However, in August 2021, our Executive Chairman became the non-employee Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors (but not the chief executive officer) of FivePoint. As of November 30, 2021, the carrying amount of our investment in FivePoint was $381.6 million. Financial Services Operations Residential Mortgage Financing We offer conforming conventional, FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other home mortgage products primarily to buyers of our homes through our financial services subsidiary, Lennar Mortgage, from locations in most of the states in which we have homebuilding operations. In fiscal year 2021, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 75% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as from independent mortgage lenders, we believe almost all creditworthy potential purchasers of our homes have access to financing. During fiscal year 2021, we originated approximately 38,100 residential mortgage loans totaling $13.2 billion, compared to 40,000 residential mortgage loans totaling $12.9 billion during fiscal year 2020. Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market, a majority of them on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Occasional claims of this type are a normal incident of loan securitization activities. We do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse facilities or from our operating funds. At November 30, 2021, Financial Services had four warehouse residential facilities maturing at various dates through fiscal 2022 with a total maximum borrowing capacity of $2.3 billion including an uncommitted amount of $1.1 billion. 4 Table of Contents We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. If they are not renewed or replaced, we would have to find other sources of funding our mortgage originations, which might include our own funds. We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We have been using new technology to automate portions of our mortgage loan origination process. This new technology has made the mortgage financing process easier for homebuyers and improved the customer experience. This new technology has also enabled us to increase the number of digital closings, with digital document signing and where possible digital notarization. Title, Insurance and Closing Services We are licensed to provide title insurance and closing services for residential and/or commercial transactions in 38 states to our homebuyers and others. During 2021 and 2020, we closed approximately 67,500 and 61,100 real estate transactions, respectively, in 18 states. Commercial Mortgage Origination Our LMF Commercial subsidiary originates and sells into securitizations first mortgage loans, which are secured by income producing commercial properties. The loans generally are between $5 million and $50 million each. LMF Commercial also originates floating rate loans secured by commercial real estate properties, many of which are in transition, undergoing lease-up, sell-out, renovation or repositioning. In order to finance LMF Commercial lending activities, as of November 30, 2021, LMF Commercial had four warehouse repurchase financing agreements maturing between December 2021 and July 2023 with commitments totaling $550 million. Multifamily Operations We have been actively involved, primarily through unconsolidated entities, in the development, construction and property management of multifamily rental properties. Our Multifamily segment focuses on developing a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets. Our Multifamily segment is one of the largest developers of apartment communities across the country. At November 30, 2021, it had interests in 66 communities with development costs of approximately $7.9 billion, of which 43 communities were completed and operating, six communities were partially completed and leasing and 17 communities were under construction. As of November 30, 2021, our Multifamily segment also had a pipeline of potential future projects, which were under contract or had letters of intent, totaling approximately $8.5 billion in anticipated development costs across a number of states that will be developed primarily by unconsolidated entities. Our Multifamily segment had equity investments in 17 and 22 unconsolidated entities (including the Multifamily Ventures, described below) as of November 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Originally, our Multifamily segment focused on building multifamily properties and selling them shortly after they were completed. However, more recently we have focused on creating, participating in and managing ventures that build multifamily properties with the intention of retaining them after they are completed. Our current ventures, Lennar Multifamily Venture Fund I LP ("LMV I") and Lennar Multifamily Venture Fund II LP ("LMV II"), are both long-term multifamily development investment vehicles involved in the development, construction and property management of class-A multifamily rental properties. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Lennar Other Strategic Technology Investments We strategically invest in companies involved in technology initiatives that, among other things, help us enhance the homebuying or home ownership experience, reduce our SG A expenses and help us stay at the forefront of homebuilding innovation. Six of the companies in which we have strategic investments are publicly traded. They are: Blend, a company that is a digital lending platform developer simplifying and fast tracking the consumer finance process; Doma, a company that built a predictive analytics platform for title insurers; Hippo, a company that provides an efficient means of obtaining home insurance; Opendoor, a company that uses technology to significantly streamline the homebuying and selling process; SmartRent, an enterprise smart home automation company; and 5 Table of Contents Sunnova, a leading national residential solar company, to which during 2021 we sold our solar business in return for equity. Each of the investments listed above, except Doma, is reflected in our financial statements at fair value, with changes to the fair values of those investments generating gains or losses on our quarterly financial statements. Doma is accounted for using the equity method. At November 30, 2021, the book value (including those recorded at fair value) of our investment in strategic technology investments was $1.2 billion and is included in our Lennar Other segment, Rialto Fund Investments Until November 30, 2018, we had a group of subsidiaries, including Rialto Capital Management, LLC, that primarily managed real estate related investment funds and other real estate related investment vehicles. We sold the Rialto Management Group on November 30, 2018. However, we retained the right to receive carried interest distributions from some of the funds and other investment vehicles Rialto manages. We also retained limited partner investments in Rialto funds and investment vehicles that totaled $200.6 million as of November 30, 2021, and we are committed to invest as much as an additional $1.2 million in Rialto funds. Seasonality We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. Our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second and third fiscal quarters and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. However, a variety of factors can alter seasonal patterns. For example, in 2020, the shutdown of large portions of our national economy in March and April due to the COVID-19 pandemic temporarily reduced our home sales, and therefore altered our normal seasonal pattern. Competition The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. In each of the market regions where we operate, we compete for homebuyers with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including location, price, reputation, amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and access to reliable, skilled labor. We compete with a wide variety of property owners in our efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where we operate primarily due to our: Everything s Included marketing program, which simplifies the home buying experience by including the most desirable features as standard items; Innovative home designs, such as our Next Gen homes that provide both privacy and togetherness for multi-generational families or a home office to accommodate working from home; Inclusion of built-in Wi-Fi, solar power systems and advanced technology in many of our homes; Our consumer insight capabilities allows us to continually stay tapped into consumer preferences and feedback so we can continuou