Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 20 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Reserved 22 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 81 Item 9B. Other Information 83 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 83 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation 83 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 83 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 83 Part IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 84 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 86 Signatures 87 Financial Statement Schedule 89 Table of Contents Item 1. Business. Overview of Lennar Corporation We are one of the largest homebuilders in the United States by deliveries, revenues and net earnings, an originator of residential and commercial mortgage loans, a provider of title insurance and closing services and a developer of multifamily rental properties. In addition, we are a sponsor and manager of funds and joint ventures engaged in development and ownership of multifamily rental properties and a sponsor and manager of a fund engaged in ownership of single-family rental properties. We also have investments in companies that are engaged in applying technology to improve the homebuilding industry and real estate related aspects of the financial services industry. Our homebuilding operations are the most substantial part of our business, generating $33 billion in revenues, or approximately 95% of consolidated revenues, in fiscal 2023. As of November 30, 2023, our reportable Homebuilding segments and all Other Homebuilding operations not required to be reported separately have divisions located in: East: Alabama, Florida, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and South Carolina Central: Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia Texas: Texas West: Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington Other: Urban divisions and other homebuilding related investments primarily in California, including FivePoint Holdings, LLC ("FivePoint") Our other reportable segments are Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other. Financial information about our Homebuilding, Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other operations is contained in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Report. About Our Company Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971 and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in a number of homebuilding markets, including California, Florida and Texas, through both organic growth and acquisitions, such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets. From 2010 through 2013, we expanded our homebuilding operations into Georgia, Oregon, Washington and Tennessee. In 2017, we acquired WCI Communities, Inc., a homebuilder of luxury single-family and multifamily homes, including a small number of luxury high-rise tower units, in Florida. In 2018, we acquired CalAtlantic Group, Inc. ("CalAtlantic"), a major homebuilder which was building homes across the homebuilding spectrum, from entry level to luxury, in 43 metropolitan statistical areas spanning 19 states, and providing mortgage, title and escrow services. We are focused on increasing efficiencies in our building process and reducing selling, general and administrative expenses by using technology and innovative strategies to reduce customer acquisition costs. Our construction playbook has three primary areas of focus: lowering construction costs, reducing cycle time and achieving even flow production. We have aimed to maintain strong operating margins by deferring home sale price commitments until construction costs are finalized to protect against cost escalations. In addition, we are continuing our transition to a land light operating model by increasing the percentage of land we control through options or agreements but do not own, which reduces our years supply of owned homesites. Homebuilding Operations Overview Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through entities in which we have investments. New home deliveries, including deliveries from unconsolidated entities, were 73,087 in fiscal 2023, compared to 66,399 in fiscal 2022 and 59,825 in fiscal 2021. We primarily sell homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up, active adult, and luxury homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home varies depending on product and geographic location. For fiscal 2023, the average sales price, excluding deliveries from unconsolidated entities, was $446,000, compared to $480,000 in fiscal 2022 and $424,000 in fiscal 2021. 1 Table of Contents We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name. Our homebuilding mission is focused on the profitable development of residential communities. Key elements of our strategy include: Strong Operating Margins - Our purchasing leverage combined with our focus on reducing selling, general and administrative costs by using technology and innovative strategies and reducing interest expense through paydowns of debt has enabled us to achieve strong gross profit and operating margins. Everything s Included Approach - We are focused on distinguishing our products, including through our Everything s Included approach, which maximizes our purchasing power, enables us to include luxury features as standard items in our homes and simplifies our homebuilding operations. Innovative Homebuilding - We are constantly innovating the homes we build to create products that better meet our customers' needs and desires. Our Next Gen home provides what can be a home within a home to accommodate children or parents or can be an office from which to work remotely. Flexible Operating Structure - Our local operating structure gives us the flexibility to make operating decisions based on local homebuilding conditions and customer preferences, while our centralized management structure provides strategic oversight for our homebuilding operations. Digital Marketing - We are increasingly advertising homes through digital channels, which is significantly increasing the cost effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Dynamic pricing model - We match up unsold production as homes progress toward completion, with pricing information from our dynamic pricing model on a community-by-community and home-by-home basis. Technology Focused - We partner with and/or invest in technology companies that are looking to improve the homebuilding and financial services industries to increase efficiencies, reduce customer acquisition costs and create a better customer experience. Land light strategy - We are focused on reducing our years' supply of owned homesites and increasing the percentage of land we control through options or agreements, including agreements with strategic land banks and joint ventures, rather than ownership. Even flow production - We are focused on maintaining consistent starts and sales paces in order to generate increased market share in all the markets we build in. Diversified Program of Property Acquisition We generally acquire, or obtain options to acquire, land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land purchases are subject to specified underwriting criteria and are made through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of: Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by land banks and other third parties or entities in which we have investments until we have determined whether to exercise the options; Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers, or other homebuilders; Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets; Acquiring access to land through joint ventures or partnerships, which among other benefits, limits the amount of our capital invested in land while helping to ensure our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; Investing in regional developers in exchange for preferential land purchase opportunities; and Acquiring land in conjunction with our Multifamily business. For the last several years, we have been reducing our reliance on land we own and increasing our access to land through options and joint ventures, most significantly through our use of land banks which is a critical part of our operating strategy. At November 30, 2023, 76% of our total homesites were controlled through options with land banks, land sellers and joint ventures compared to 69% at November 30, 2022. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. 2 Table of Contents Construction and Development We are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. We use independent subcontractors for most aspects of land development and home construction. At November 30, 2023, we were actively building and marketing homes in 1,260 communities, including five communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities. This was an increase from the 1,208 communities, including eight communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities, in which we were actively building and marketing homes at November 30, 2022. At November 30, 2023 and 2022, we had about 1,200 and 900 completed unsold homes, respectively. We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price and time schedules and in compliance with applicable building codes and laws. The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. Although we, like homebuilders throughout the country, encountered shortages of materials and skilled labor during 2022, we believe that because of our size and our builder of choice program, where we work with our trade partners to drive efficiencies for them, we were less affected by these shortages than many of our competitors. Most shortages were eliminated due to the supply chain environment catching up to homebuilder demand as well as Lennar s continued effort to work with our suppliers and manufacturers on the volume and specific products needed to build homes. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations and historically from proceeds of unsecured corporate debt. Marketing We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up, active adult, luxury and multi-generational homebuyers in a variety of locations ranging from urban infill communities to suburban golf course communities. Our Everything s Included marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by including luxury items as standard features at competitive prices, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified construction process, product standardization and volume purchasing. In addition, we include built in wireless capability, home automation and solar power in many of the homes we sell, which enhances our brand and improves our ability to generate traffic and sales. We sell our homes from models that we have designed and constructed. We employ new home consultants who are paid salaries, commissions or both to conduct on-site sales of our homes. We also sell homes through independent realtors. We have made it possible for potential homebuyers to take virtual tours of model homes. During fiscal 2023, even with shifts in macroeconomic factors and adjusting to the recent inflationary environment, we were able to develop, enhance, use, and improve the Lennar machine. Our sales, marketing, and dynamic pricing machine is quickly becoming an advanced digital engine that has materially benefited from aggressive, focused use and engagement while the market was most difficult. Our marketing strategy has increasingly involved advertising through digital channels including real estate listing sites, paid search, display advertising, social media and e-mail marketing, all of which drive traffic to our website, www.lennar.com. This has allowed us to attract more qualified and knowledgeable homebuyers. However, we also continue to advertise through more traditional media on a limited basis, including newspapers, other local and regional publications, radio and on billboards where appropriate. We tailor our marketing strategy and message based on the community being advertised and the customers being targeted, such as advertising our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live or will potentially want to purchase. During fiscal 2023, significant increases in interest rates made our homes less affordable to many prospective buyers and led us to reduce prices or increase sales incentives in a number of our communities to maintain sales pace. Quality Service We continually strive to improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. We strive to create a quality homebuying experience for our customers through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, as well as use of technology to simplify the homebuying and financing process. We believe this leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes, and by other similar factors. We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies. 3 Table of Contents Local Operating Structure and Centralized Management We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Our local operating structure consists of homebuilding divisions across the country, each of which is usually managed by a division president, a controller and personnel focused on land acquisition, entitlement and development, sales, construction, customer service and purchasing. This local operating structure gives our division presidents and their teams, who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry, and in most instances, in their particular markets, the flexibility to make local operating decisions, including land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current sales volume, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes. We centralize at the corporate level decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions and disposition of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems. Backlog Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of 16% in 2023 and 17% in 2022. We do not recognize revenue on homes that are the subject of sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners. The backlog dollar value including unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2023 was $6.6 billion, compared to $8.7 billion at November 30, 2022. We expect that a significant portion of all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year 2024. Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities We create and participate in joint ventures that acquire and develop land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in the ventures' own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduce the amount we invest in potential future homesites, thereby reducing risks associated with land acquisitions and improving the return on our investments, and, in some instances, we obtain access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. As of both November 30, 2023 and 2022, we had equity investments in 48 active homebuilding and land unconsolidated entities, in which we were participating, and our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures was $42.1 million and $9.1 million, respectively. This is discussed in greater detail in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Financial Services Operations Residential Mortgage Financing We offer conforming conventional, FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other home mortgage products primarily to buyers of our homes through our financial services subsidiary, Lennar Mortgage, from locations in most of the states in which we have homebuilding operations. In fiscal year 2023, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 81% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as from independent mortgage lenders, we believe almost all creditworthy potential purchasers of our homes have access to financing. During fiscal year 2023, we originated approximately 47,000 residential mortgage loans totaling $17.4 billion, compared to 37,700 residential mortgage loans totaling $14.4 billion during fiscal year 2022. Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market, a majority of them on a servicing-released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Occasional claims of this type are a normal incident of loan securitization activities. We do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. During fiscal year 2023, we also locked interest rates on approximately 46,600 residential mortgage loans totaling $17.2 billion, compared to 41,100 residential mortgage loans totaling $15.7 billion during fiscal year 2022. We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse facilities or funds from our operating activities. At November 30, 2023, Financial Services had five warehouse residential facilities maturing at various dates through fiscal 2024 with a total maximum borrowing capacity of $2.5 billion including an uncommitted amount of $750 million. We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. If they are not renewed or replaced, we would have to find other sources of funding for our mortgage originations, which might include our own funds. We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 4 Table of Contents We have been using new technology to automate portions of our mortgage loan origination process. This new technology has made the mortgage financing process easier for homebuyers and improved the customer experience. This new technology has also enabled us to increase the number of digital closings, with digital document signing and, where legally permitted, digital notarization. Title, Insurance and Closing Services We are licensed to provide title insurance, and closing services for residential and/or commercial transactions in 41 states to our homebuyers and others. During fiscal 2023 and 2022, we provided closing services with regard to approximately 74,900 and 68,800 real estate transactions, respectively, in 25 and 20 states, respectively. Commercial Mortgage Origination Our LMF Commercial subsidiary originates and sells into securitizations first mortgage loans, which are secured by income producing commercial properties. The loans generally are between $5 million and $50 million each. LMF Commercial also originates floating rate loans secured by commercial real estate properties, many of which are in transition, undergoing lease-up, sell-out, renovation or repositioning. In order to finance LMF Commercial lending activities, as of November 30, 2023, LMF Commercial had three warehouse repurchase financing agreements maturing at various dates from December 2023 through fiscal 2024 with commitments totaling $500 million. This is discussed in greater detail in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Lennar Other Strategic Technology Investments We strategically invest in companies involved in technology initiatives that, among other things, help us enhance the homebuying or home ownership experience, reduce our SG A expenses and help us stay at the forefront of homebuilding innovation. Seven of the companies in which we have strategic investments are publicly traded. They are: Blend Labs, Inc. ("Blend"), a digital lending platform developer simplifying and fast tracking the consumer finance process; Doma Holdings, Inc. ("Doma"), a company that built a predictive analytics platform for title insurers; Hippo Holdings, Inc. ("Hippo"), a company that provides an efficient means of obtaining home insurance; Opendoor Technologies, Inc. ("Opendoor"), a company that uses technology to significantly streamline the homebuying and selling process; SmartRent, Inc. ("SmartRent"), an enterprise smart home automation company; Sonder Holdings, Inc. ("Sonder"), a company that manages short-term rentals, such as rental hotels; and Sunnova Energy International, Inc. ("Sunnova"), a leading national residential solar company, to which during 2021, we sold our solar power business in return for equity. Each of the investments listed above, except Doma, is reflected in our financial statements at market value, with changes to the fair values of those investments generating gains or losses on our quarterly financial statements. Doma is accounted for using the equity method. At November 30, 2023, the book value of our investment in strategic technology investments (including those recorded at fair value) was $424.7 million and is included in our Lennar Other segment. For additional information about our investments in strategic technology investments, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report. Multifamily Operations Our Multifamily business has been engaged in the development of multifamily communities since 2011. Initially, the Multifamily business almost exclusively participated in shorter-duration joint ventures that built multifamily communities with the intention of selling them soon after they were built, and in most cases after they were substantially occupied. However, the Multifamily business now manages, and owns interests in, longer-duration funds that build multifamily communities with the intention of retaining them as rental income-generating assets. At November 30, 2023, Multifamily had interests in, and was managing, three funds and 22 joint ventures. From inception through November 30, 2023, the Multifamily business has capitalized and developed 119 multifamily residential communities with approximately 35,900 rental units across 20 states throughout the United States. The communities developed by the Multifamily business include a diversified mix of conventional garden, mid-rise and high-rise multifamily properties in urban and suburban locations near major employment centers. Most communities offer residents a mix of studio, one, two, and three-bedroom homes. 5 Table of Contents As of November 30, 2023, funds and ventures managed by Multifamily had a pipeline of 48 potential future developments, which were owned, under contract or subject to letters of intent, totaling approximately $6.2 billion in anticipated development costs across several states. Multifamily has co-investments in all the funds and ventures it manages, and receives returns on these investments. In addition, it has carried interests in the funds or ventures it manages, and receives distributions with regard to those carried interests. Single-Family Home Rentals In December 2020, Lennar formed the Upward America Venture, LLC ( Upward America ), which (a) acquires communities of single-family rental properties (including townhomes, duplexes and condominium buildings developed or acquired for rental purposes), and (b) leases and manages homes in those communities. Lennar subsidiaries are the manager and the general partner of Upward America. As of November 30, 2023, institutional investors and Lennar had committed $1.6 billion to Upward America, part of which was used to reduce an initial commitment Lennar had made from $225 million to $125 million. Proceeds of commitments by other investors may be used to redeem more of Lennar s ownership, but Lennar has agreed not to reduce its ownership below $50 million. As owner of the general partner of Upward America, Lennar has the right to receive, in addition to distributions regarding its own commitments, distributions based on the amounts by which returns to limited partners exceed specified amounts (i.e., carried interests). As the manager of Upward America, Lennar receives management and acquisition fees. Lennar subsidiaries may also receive fees for property management, leasing, construction management and other services that they render through subcontractors. At November 30, 2023, Upward America had purchased 4,697 homes in 103 communities across 19 metropolitan statistical areas for a total purchase price of $1.2 billion (an average price of $258,000 per home), of which 4,420 of the homes owned by Upward America had been leased to occupants. The Limited Partnership Agreement of Upward America gives Upward America the right to purchase from Lennar for their appraised value all homes or communities that are purpose built by Lennar for single-family home rental. Upward America also is free to purchase homes from homebuilders other than Lennar or to purchase previously occupied homes. Initially all the homes purchased by Upward America were purchased from Lennar, but subsequently, Upward America began purchasing homes from multiple homebuilders. At both November 30, 2023 and 2022, approximately 6% of the homes owned by Upward America were built by homebuilders other than Lennar. Five Point Holdings, LLC We own an indirect approximately 40% interest in FivePoint, which is a publicly traded developer of three large master planned mixed-use developments in California (Newhall Ranch, Great Park Neighborhoods, and San Francisco Shipyard/Candlestick Point). We sometimes purchase properties from FivePoint for use in our homebuilding operations. We have no active role in the management of FivePoint, except that since August 2021 our Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer has been the non-employee Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors (but not the chief executive officer) of FivePoint. As of November 30, 2023, the carrying amount of our investment in FivePoint was $422.2 million. Rialto Fund Investments Until November 30, 2018, we had a group of subsidiaries, including Rialto Capital Management, LLC ("Rialto"), that primarily managed real estate related investment funds and other real estate related investment vehicles. We sold the R