Item 1. Business 9 Item 1A. Risk Factors 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 49 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 51 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 53 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 53 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 64 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 64 Item 9B. Other Information 65 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 65 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 66 Item 11. Executive Compensation 66 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 66 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 66 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 66 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 67 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 71 3 Index Summary of Material Risks Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings together with its subsidiaries (Labcorp or the Company) is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including risks that could have a material adverse effect on its business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation, and cash flows. This summary should be read together with the more detailed description of the risks that the Company deems material described under Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing the Company s business. In addition to the following summary, investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in any of the Company s securities. The risks below are not the only ones that the Company faces. Additional risks not presently known to the Company, or that it presently deems immaterial, may also negatively impact the Company. This Annual Report also includes forward-looking statements, immediately following this risk summary, that involve risks or uncertainties. The Company s results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic a. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic disruption that could have an adverse effect on the Company s business and financial position. b. If the Company does not continue to respond appropriately to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, or if the Company s customers do not perceive its response to be adequate, the Company could suffer damage to its reputation, which could adversely affect its business. c. The success of the Company is dependent in part on the efforts of its management team and employees, and the COVID-19 pandemic could divert or hinder the Company s human capital resources. Risks Related to Regulatory and Compliance Matters a. Changes in payer regulations or policies, insurance regulations or approvals, or changes in or interpretations of, other laws, regulations or policies in the U.S. or globally may have a material adverse effect upon the Company. b. The Company could face significant monetary damages and penalties and/or exclusion from government programs if it violates anti-fraud and abuse laws. c. The Company s business could be harmed from the loss or suspension of a license or imposition of fines or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA), or those of Medicare, Medicaid or other national, state, or local agencies in the U.S. and other countries where the Company operates laboratories. d. Failure of the Company or its third-party service providers to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties, and damage to the Company s reputation with customers and have a material adverse effect upon the Company s business. e. The Company s international operations could subject it to additional risks and expenses that could have a material adverse impact on the business or results of operations, including exposure to liabilities under tax, trade, anti-corruption, and data privacy laws. f. Failure to comply with the regulations of drug regulatory agencies could result in fines, penalties, and sanctions and have a material adverse effect upon the Company. g. Failure to conduct animal research in compliance with animal welfare laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties, and sanctions and have a material adverse effect upon the Company. h. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Union and other regulation of diagnostic products and medical devices and increased FDA regulation of laboratory-developed tests (LDTs) could result in increased costs, fines, and penalties. i. Failure to comply with national, state, local or international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act, and the U.S. Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, could result in fines and penalties. Risks Related to the Company s Business a. General or macro-economic factors in the U.S. and globally may have a material adverse effect upon the Company, and a significant deterioration in the economy could negatively impact testing volumes, drug development services, cash collections, and the availability of credit. b. Healthcare reform and changes to related products, changes in government payment and reimbursement systems, or changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms and evolving delivery models, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, profitability, and cash flow. c. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries could decrease the need for certain services that the Company provides. d. Increased competition, including price competition, could have an adverse effect on the Company s revenues and profitability. 4 Index e. Failure to obtain and retain new customers, the loss of existing customers or material contracts, or a reduction in services or tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers, or the inability to retain existing and/or create new relationships with health systems could impact the Company s ability to successfully grow its business. f. Discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products, failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved testing technologies, and competition from new products and technologies could adversely affect the Company s business. g. Operations may be disrupted and adversely impacted by the effects of adverse weather, natural disasters, geopolitical events, public health crises, hostilities or acts of terrorism, acts of vandalism, and other catastrophic events outside of the Company's control. h. Changes or disruption in services, supplies, or transportation provided by third parties could adversely affect the Company s business. i. A failure to identify and successfully close and integrate strategic acquisition targets could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business objectives and its revenues and profitability. j. Continued and increased consolidation of managed care organizations (MCOs), pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, health systems, physicians, and other customers could adversely affect the Company's business. k. Unproductive labor environment, union strikes, work stoppages, union or works council negotiations, or failure to comply with labor or employment laws could adversely affect the Company's operations and have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business. l. An inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel, including key management personnel, could adversely affect the Company s business. m. Global economic conditions and government and regulatory changes, including, but not limited to, those arising from the United Kingdom's (U.K.) exit from the European Union (EU), could adversely affect the Company s business and results of operations. Risks Related to Financial Matters a. The Company bears financial risk for contracts that, including for reasons beyond the Company's control, may be underpriced, subject to cost overruns, delayed, terminated or reduced in scope. b. A significant increase in the Company s days sales outstanding could have an adverse effect on the Company s business, including its cash flow, by increasing its bad debt or decreasing its cash flow. c. The Company's Drug Development segment revenues depend on the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, including those industries' R D spending, ability to raise capital, reimbursement from governmental programs or commercial payers, and trends and other economic conditions affecting those industries. d. Foreign currency exchange fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business. e. The Company s uses of financial instruments to limit its exposure to interest rate and currency fluctuations could expose it to risks and financial losses that may adversely affect the Company s financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. f. The Company s level of indebtedness could adversely affect the Company s liquidity, results of operations and business. Risks Related to Technology and Cybersecurity a. Failure to maintain the security of information relating to the Company, or its customers, patients, or vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on the Company s information systems or otherwise, could damage the Company s reputation, cause it to incur substantial additional costs, result in litigation and enforcement actions, and materially adversely affect the Company s business and operating results. b. Failure or delays in the Company s information technology systems, including the failure to develop and implement updates and enhancements to those systems, could disrupt the Company s operations or customer relationships. c. The Company depends on third parties to provide services critical to the Company's business, and depends on them to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Breaches of the information technology systems of third parties could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. Risks Related to Legal Matters a. Adverse results in material litigation matters could have a material adverse effect upon the Company s business. b. The failure to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights and defend against challenges to the Company s intellectual property rights could adversely affect the Company. c. Changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretation of such may have a significant impact on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. d. If the Company fails to perform contract research services in accordance with contractual requirements and regulatory standards, the Company could be subject to significant costs or liability. 5 Index FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In this Annual Report, the Company makes, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements relate to future events and expectations and can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as believes , expects , may , will , should , seeks , approximately , intends , plans , estimates , or anticipates or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the time they are made and are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein, including in the Summary of Material Risks above and in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report, and in the Company s other public filings, press releases, and discussions with Company management, including: 1. changes in government and third-party payer regulations, reimbursement, or coverage policies or other future reforms in the U.S. healthcare system (or in the interpretation of current regulations), new insurance or payment systems, including state, regional or private insurance cooperatives (e.g., health insurance exchanges) affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for commercial laboratory testing, including the impact of the U.S. Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (PAMA); 2. significant monetary damages, fines, penalties, assessments, refunds, repayments, damage to the Company's reputation, unanticipated compliance expenditures, and/or exclusion or debarment from or ineligibility to participate in government programs, among other adverse consequences, arising from enforcement of anti-fraud and abuse laws and other laws applicable to the Company in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business; 3. significant fines, penalties, costs, unanticipated compliance expenditures, and/or damage to the Company s reputation arising from the failure to comply with applicable privacy and security laws and regulations, including the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the U.S. Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation and similar laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business; 4. loss or suspension of a license or imposition of fines or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of applicable licensing laws or regulations regarding the operation of clinical laboratories and the delivery of clinical laboratory test results, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967 and the U.S. Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 and similar laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business; 5. penalties or loss of license arising from the failure to comply with applicable occupational and workplace safety laws and regulations, including the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements, the U.S. Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, and similar laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business; 6. fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of manufacturing, enforcement actions, damage to the Company's reputation, injunctions, or criminal prosecution arising from failure to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practice regulations and similar requirements of various regulatory agencies in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business; 7. sanctions or other remedies, including fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution arising from failure to comply with the Animal Welfare Act or applicable national, state and local laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business; 8. changes in testing guidelines or recommendations by government agencies, medical specialty societies, and other authoritative bodies affecting the utilization of laboratory tests; 9. changes in applicable government regulations or policies affecting the approval, availability of, and the selling and marketing of diagnostic tests, drug development, or the conduct of drug development and medical device and diagnostic studies and trials, including regulations and policies of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the United Kingdom, the National Medical Products Administration in China, the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency in Japan, the European Medicines Agency, the European Union and similar regulations and policies of agencies in other jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business; 10. changes in government regulations or reimbursement pertaining to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device and diagnostic industries, changes in reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, or reduced spending on research and development by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device and diagnostic customers; 6 Index 11. liabilities that result from the failure to comply with corporate governance requirements; 12. increased competition, including price competition, potential reduction in rates in response to price transparency initiatives and consumerism, competitive bidding and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules, and competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry; 13. changes in payer mix or payment structure or process, including insurance carrier participation in health insurance exchanges, an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms, the impact of clearinghouses on the claims reimbursement process, the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans or plans carrying an increased level of member cost-sharing, and adverse changes in payer reimbursement or payer coverage policies (implemented directly or through a third-party utilization management organization) related to specific diagnostic tests, categories of testing or testing methodologies; 14. failure to retain or attract MCO business as a result of changes in business models, including risk based or network approaches, out-sourced laboratory network management or utilization management companies, or other changes in strategy or business models by MCOs; 15. failure to obtain and retain new customers, an unfavorable change in the mix of testing services ordered, or a reduction in tests ordered, specimens submitted, or services requested by existing customers, and delays in payments from customers; 16. consolidation and convergence of customers, competitors, and suppliers, potentially causing material shifts in insourcing, utilization, pricing, reimbursement and supply chain access; 17. failure to effectively develop and deploy new systems, system modifications or enhancements required in response to evolving market and business needs; 18. customers choosing to insource services that are or could be purchased from the Company; 19. failure to identify, successfully close and effectively integrate and/or manage acquisitions of new businesses or failure to maintain key customers and/or employees as a result of uncertainty surrounding the integration of acquisitions; 20. inability to achieve the expected benefits and synergies of newly-acquired businesses, including due to items not discovered in the due diligence process, and the impact on the Company's cash position, levels of indebtedness and stock price; 21. termination, loss, delay, reduction in scope or increased costs of contracts, including large contracts and multiple contracts; 22. liability arising from errors or omissions in the performance of testing services, contract research services or other contractual arrangements; 23. changes or disruption in the provision or transportation of services or supplies provided by third parties; or their termination for failure to follow the Company's performance standards and requirements; 24. damage or disruption to the Company's facilities; 25. damage to the Company's reputation, loss of business, or other harm from acts of animal rights activists or potential harm and/or liability arising from animal research activities; 26. adverse results in litigation matters; 27. inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel or the loss of significant personnel as a result of illness, increased competition for talent, wage growth, or other market factors; 28. failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, such as point-of-care testing, mobile health technologies, and digital pathology, or potential use of new technologies by customers and/or consumers to perform their own tests; 29. substantial costs arising from the inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests; 30. failure to obtain, maintain, and enforce intellectual property rights for protection of the Company's products and services and defend against challenges to those rights; 31. scope, validity, and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties that may impact the Company's ability to develop, perform, or market the Company's products or services or operate its business; 7 Index 32. business interruption, receivables impairment, delays in cash collection impacting days sales outstanding, supply chain disruptions or inventory obsolescence, increases in material cost or other operating costs, or other impacts on the business due to natural disasters, including adverse weather, fires and earthquakes; political crises, including terrorism and war; public health crises and disease epidemics and pandemics; changes in the global economy; and other events outside of the Company's control; 33. discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products; 34. a failure in the Company's information technology systems, including with respect to testing turnaround time and billing processes, or the failure of the Company or its third-party suppliers and vendors to maintain the security of business information or systems or to protect against cybersecurity attacks such as denial of service attacks, malware, ransomware, and computer viruses, or delays or failures in the development and implementation of the Company s automation platforms, any of which could result in a negative effect on the Company s performance of services, a loss of business or increased costs, damages to the Company s reputation, significant litigation exposure, an inability to meet required financial reporting deadlines, or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology, data security and connectivity requirements; 35. business interruption, increased costs, and other adverse effects on the Company's operations due to the unionization of employees, union strikes, work stoppages, general labor unrest or failure to comply with labor or employment laws; 36. failure to maintain the Company's days sales outstanding levels, cash collections (in light of increasing levels of patient responsibility), profitability and/or reimbursement arising from unfavorable changes in third-party payer policies, payment delays introduced by third-party utilization management organizations, and increasing levels of patient payment responsibility; 37. impact on the Company's revenues, cash collections, and the availability of credit for general liquidity or other financing needs arising from a significant deterioration in the economy or financial markets or in the Company's credit ratings by Standard Poor's and/or Moody's; 38. failure to maintain the expected capital structure for the Company, including failure to maintain the Company's investment grade rating, or leverage ratio covenants under its revolving credit facility; 39. changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency fluctuations; 40. inability to obtain certain billing information from physicians, resulting in increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in receipts, and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and revenues; 41. expenses and risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to, compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, other applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations, trade sanction laws and regulations, and economic, political, legal and other operational risks associated with foreign jurisdictions; 42. failure to achieve expected efficiencies and savings in connection with the Company's business process improvement initiatives; 43. changes in tax laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation; 44. global economic conditions and government and regulatory changes; and 45. effects, duration, and severity of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, including the impact on operations, personnel, supplies, liquidity, and collections, as well as the impact of past or future actions or omissions by the Company or governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic including, but not limited to, emerging government vaccine and testing mandates and policies, and damage to the Company's reputation or loss of business resulting from the perception of the Company's response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the availability and accuracy and timeliness of delivery of any tests that the Company develops, collaborates on or provides for the detection of COVID-19, and the availability and timeliness of its drug development services. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Given these uncertainties, one should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. 8 Index PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Labcorp is a leading global life sciences company that provides vital information to help doctors, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies, researchers, and patients make clear and confident decisions. By leveraging its unparalleled diagnostics and drug development capabilities, the Company provides insights and accelerates innovations to improve health and improve lives. With more than 75,500 employees, the Company serves clients in more than 100 countries. Through its Labcorp Diagnostics (Dx) and Labcorp Drug Development (DD) segments, the Company provides diagnostic, drug development, and technology-enabled solutions for more than 160 million patient encounters per year, or more than 3 million per week. In addition, the Company's world-class central laboratory, preclinical, and clinical development businesses support clinical trial activity in approximately 100 countries. The Company's capabilities enable it to play a leading role in advancing healthcare across the globe, and to provide crucial, ongoing support for the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The significant reach, breadth, and advancement of the Company's offerings have resulted in revenue growth of 39.5%, and operating income growth of 145.0%, from 2019 through 2021. The Company believes that its diversified offerings across DD and Dx help to balance the impact of changes in the global economic and healthcare systems, as well as the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. For the period ended December 31, 2021, the Company generated revenues of $16,120.9 million, diluted earnings per share of $24.39, and had a total operating cash flow of $3,109.6 million. The Company believes that science, technology, and innovation drive its continued success, differentiate the Company, and are foundational to its future. They are critical to the Company's ability to carry out its mission to improve health and improve lives. Strategic Review of Company Structure and Capital Allocation Strategy In March 2021, the Company announced the undertaking of a comprehensive review by its board of directors (the Board) and management team of Labcorp's structure and capital allocation strategy. The review reflected the Board's and management team's view that the Company's value was not appropriately reflected in its stock price. As a part of this review, the Board and management worked with outside advisors, held extensive discussions with third parties, and considered a wide range of options, including significant acquisitions, divestitures, spinning off businesses, as well as spinning and merging those businesses with strategic partners. Ultimately, the Board unanimously concluded that the Company's existing structure is in the best interest of all stakeholders at this time and represents compelling opportunities to grow and create significant shareholder value. In December 2021, the Company announced the Board's conclusion, as well as actions that the management team and the Board are taking to enhance shareholder returns. These actions include: initiating a dividend in the second quarter of 2022, with a target dividend payout ratio of between 15 to 20% of adjusted earnings; authorizing a $2.50 billion share repurchase program. As part of this program, $1.0 billion is being repurchased under an accelerated share repurchase plan that is expected to be complete by the end of April 2022; implementing a new LaunchPad business process improvement initiative, targeting savings of $350.0 million over the next three years; providing a longer-term outlook in connection with the announcement of the Company's 2021 year-end results in addition to the Company's annual guidance; providing additional business insights through enhanced disclosures beginning with Labcorp's results for the first quarter of 2022; and continuing a commit