ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 12 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 ITEM 2. Properties 25 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 26 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Information about our Executive Officers 28 Part II: ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 31 ITEM 7. M anagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 62 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 125 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 125 ITEM 9B. Other Information 126 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 126 Part III: ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 126 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 127 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 127 ITEM 13 . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 127 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 127 Part IV: ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 128 ITEM 16 . Form 10-K Summary 134 Signatures 135 Exhibits This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trademarks, service marks and registered marks of L3Harris Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Report ), including Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies or litigation; environmental remediation cost estimates; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the integration of our acquisitions; the value of contract awards and programs; expected revenue; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as believes, expects, may, could, should, would, will, intends, plans, estimates, anticipates, projects and similar words or expressions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results. Factors that might cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements, from our current expectations or projections or from our historical results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in