ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 9 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 ITEM 2. Properties 15 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 15 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 17 ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 30 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 76 ITEM 9B. Other Information 76 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 76 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 76 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 76 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 77 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 77 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 77 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 SIGNATURES 81 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES 81 PART I Item 1. Business References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to we, our, us, LII or the Company refer to Lennox International Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. The Company We are a global leader in energy-efficient climate-control solutions. We design, manufacture and market a broad range of products for the heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration ( HVACR ) markets. We have leveraged our expertise to become an industry leader known for innovation, quality and reliability. Our products and services are sold through multiple distribution channels under various brand names. The Company was founded in 1895, in Marshalltown, Iowa, by Dave Lennox, the owner of a machine repair business for railroads. He designed and patented a riveted steel coal-fired furnace, which led to numerous advancements in heating, cooling and climate control solutions. Shown in the table below are our three business segments, the key products, services and well-known product and brand names within each segment and net sales in 2021 by segment. Segment financial data for 2021, 2020 and 2019, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 3 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and is incorporated herein by reference. Segment Products Services Product and Brand Names 2021 Net Sales (in millions) Residential Heating Cooling Furnaces, air conditioners, heat pumps, packaged heating and cooling systems, indoor air quality equipment, comfort control products, replacement parts and supplies Lennox, Dave Lennox Signature Collection, Armstrong Air, Ducane, AirEase, Concord, MagicPak, ADP Advanced Distributor Products, Allied, Elite Series, Merit Series, Comfort Sync, Healthy Climate, Healthy Climate Solutions, iComfort ComfortSense and Lennox Stores $ 2,775.6 Commercial Heating Cooling Unitary heating and air conditioning equipment, applied systems, controls, installation and service of commercial heating and cooling equipment, variable refrigerant flow commercial products Lennox, Model L, CORE, Energence, Prodigy, Strategos, Landmark, Raider, Lennox VRF, Lennox National Account Services, Allied Commercial, MagicPak 864.8 Refrigeration Condensing units, unit coolers, fluid coolers, air cooled condensers, air handlers, process chillers, controls, compressorized racks. Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration, Lennox (Europe HVAC), Bohn, MAGNA, Larkin, Climate Control, Chandler Refrigeration, Friga-Bohn, HK Refrigeration, Hyfra, IntelliGen and Interlink 553.7 Total $ 4,194.1 Products and Services Residential Heating Cooling Heating Cooling Products . We manufacture and market a broad range of furnaces, air conditioners, heat pumps, packaged heating and cooling systems, equipment and accessories to improve indoor air quality, comfort control products, replacement parts and supplies and related products for both the residential replacement and new construction markets in North America. These products are available in a variety of designs and efficiency levels and at a range of price points, and are intended to provide a complete line of home comfort systems. We believe that by maintaining a broad product line marketed under multiple brand names, we can address different market segments and penetrate multiple distribution channels. The Lennox business and brands ( Dave Lennox Signature Collection, Elite Series, Merit Series, iComfort, ComfortSense and Healthy Climate Solutions ) are sold directly to independent installing dealers, making us one of the largest wholesale distributors of residential heating, ventilation, and air conditioning products in North America. We continue to invest in our network of 231 Lennox Stores across the United States and Canada. These stores provide an easy access solution for contractors and independent dealers to obtain universal service and replacement parts, supplies, convenience items, 1 tools, Lennox equipment and OEM parts. The Allied Air Enterprise business and brands ( Armstrong Air, AirEase, Concord, Ducane, Allied, and MagicPak ) include a full line of heating, ventilation and air conditioning products and are sold through independent wholesale distributors in the U.S. and Canada. The Allied Air Enterprise business also sells a full line of heating, ventilation and cooling equipment through private label brands. The Advanced Distributor Products ( ADP ) business and brand ( ADP Advanced Distributor Products ) sells evaporator coils, air handlers and unit heaters to independent HVAC wholesale distributors across the U.S. and Canada. Commercial Heating Cooling North America . In North America, we manufacture and sell unitary heating and cooling equipment used in light commercial applications, such as low-rise office buildings, restaurants, retail centers, churches and schools. Our product offerings for these applications include rooftop units ranging from 2 to 50 tons of cooling capacity and split system/air handler combinations, which range from 1.5 to 20 tons of cooling capacity. These products are distributed primarily through commercial contractors and directly to national account customers. In 2021, we launched the Lennox Model L rooftop unit featuring the powerful CORE control system and advanced variable-speed technology to maximize rebates and energy savings. We believe the success of our products is attributable to their efficiency, design flexibility, total cost of ownership, low life-cycle cost, ease of service and advanced control technology. National Account Services . National Account Service ( NAS ) provides installation, service and preventive maintenance for commercial HVAC national account customers in the United States and Canada. Refrigeration We manufacture and market equipment for the global commercial refrigeration markets under the Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration name. We sell these products to distributors, installing contractors, engineering design firms, original equipment manufacturers and end-users. Our global manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing footprint serves customers in approximately 100 countries worldwide. North America . Our commercial refrigeration products for the North American market include condensing units, unit coolers, fluid coolers, air-cooled condensers, air handlers and refrigeration rack systems. These products preserve food and other perishables in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants, warehouses and distribution centers. In addition, our products are used to cool a wide variety of industrial processes, including data centers, machine tooling, and other critical cooling applications. We routinely provide application engineering for consulting engineers, contractors, store planners, end customers and others to support the sale of commercial refrigeration products. International . In Europe, we manufacture and sell unitary HVAC products, which range from 2 to 70 tons of cooling capacity, and applied systems with up to 200 tons of cooling capacity. Our European products consist of small package units, rooftop units, chillers, air handlers and fan coils that serve medium-rise commercial buildings, shopping malls, other retail and entertainment buildings, institutional applications and other field-engineered applications. We manufacture heating and cooling products in several locations in Europe and market these products through both direct and indirect distribution channels in Europe, the United Kingdom, Eastern Europe, Turkey, Africa, and the Middle East. We also manufacture and market refrigeration products including condensing units, unit coolers, air-cooled condensers, fluid coolers, compressor racks and industrial process chillers. We have manufacturing locations in Germany, France and Spain. In addition, we own a 50% common stock interest in a joint venture in Mexico that produces unit coolers, air-cooled condensers, condensing units, compressors and compressorized racks of the same design and quality as those manufactured by our U.S. business. This joint venture product line is complemented with imports from the U.S., which are sold through the joint venture s distribution network. Business Strategy Our business strategy is to sustain and expand our premium market position by offering a full spectrum of products to meet our customers needs. We plan to expand our market position through organic growth while maintaining our focus on cost reductions to drive margin expansion. This strategy is supported by the following four strategic priorities: 2 Innovative Product and System Solutions. In all of our markets, we are building on our heritage of innovation by developing residential, commercial and refrigeration products that give families and business owners more precise control over more aspects of their indoor environments, while significantly lowering their energy costs. Manufacturing and Sourcing Excellence. We maintain our commitment to manufacturing and sourcing excellence by maximizing factory efficiencies and leveraging our purchasing power and sourcing initiatives to expand the use of lower-cost components that meet our high-quality requirements. Distribution Excellence. By investing resources in expanding our distribution network, we are making products available to our customers in a timely, cost-efficient manner. Additionally, we provide enhanced dealer support through the use of technology, training, advertising and merchandising. Expense Reduction. Through our cost management initiatives, we are optimizing operating, manufacturing and administrative costs. Marketing and Distribution We utilize multiple channels of distribution and offer different brands at various price points in order to better penetrate the HVACR markets. Our products and services are sold through a combination of direct sales, distributors and company-owned parts and supplies stores. Dedicated sales forces and manufacturers representatives are deployed across our business segments and brands in a manner designed to maximize our ability to service each distribution channel. To optimize enterprise-wide effectiveness, we have active cross-functional and cross-organizational teams coordinating approaches to pricing, product design, distribution and national account customers. The North American residential heating and cooling market provides an example of the competitive strength of our marketing and distribution strategy. We use three distinct distribution approaches in this market: the company-owned distribution system, the independent distribution system and direct sales to end-users. We distribute our Lennox brands in a company-owned process directly to independent dealers that install these heating and cooling products. We distribute our Armstrong Air, Ducane, Air-Ease, Concord, MagicPak and ADP Advanced Distributor Products brands through the traditional independent distribution process pursuant to which we sell our products to distributors who, in turn, sell the products to installing contractors. We also sell our products directly to customers through our Lennox Stores. Manufacturing We operate manufacturing facilities worldwide and utilize the best available manufacturing techniques based on the needs of our businesses, including the use of lean manufacturing and principles of Six Sigma, a disciplined, data-driven approach and methodology for improving quality. We use numerous metrics to track and manage annual efficiency improvements. Some facilities are impacted by seasonal production demand, and we manufacture both heating and cooling products in those facilities to balance production and maintain a relatively stable labor force. We may also hire temporary employees to meet changes in demand. Strategic Sourcing We rely on various suppliers to furnish the raw materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products. To maximize our buying effectiveness in the marketplace, we have a central strategic sourcing group that consolidates purchases of certain materials, components and indirect items across business segments. The goal of the strategic sourcing group is to develop global strategies for a given component group, concentrate purchases with three to five suppliers and develop long-term relationships with these vendors. By developing these strategies and relationships, we seek to leverage our material needs to reduce costs and improve financial and operating performance. Our strategic sourcing group also works with selected suppliers to reduce costs, improve quality and delivery performance by employing lean manufacturing and Six Sigma. Compressors, motors and controls constitute our most significant component purchases, while steel, copper and aluminum account for the bulk of our raw material purchases. We own a minority equity interest in a joint venture that manufactures compressors. This joint venture provides us with compressors for our residential and commercial heating and cooling, and refrigeration businesses. Research and Development and Technology 3 Research and development is a key pillar of our growth strategy. We operate a global engineering and technology organization that focuses on new technology invention, product development, product quality improvements and process enhancements, including our development of next-generation control systems as well as heating and cooling products that include some of the most efficient products in their respective categories. We leverage intellectual property and innovative designs across our businesses. We also leverage product development cycle time improvements and product data management systems to commercialize new products to market more rapidly. We use advanced, commercially available computer-aided design, computer-aided manufacturing, computational fluid dynamics and other sophisticated design tools to streamline the design and manufacturing processes. We use complex computer simulations and analyses in the conceptual design phase before functional prototypes are created. We also operate a full line of prototype machine equipment and advanced laboratories certified by applicable industry associations. Seasonality Our sales and related segment profit tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning equipment and services in the U.S. and Canada. For the same reason, our working capital needs are generally greater in the first and second quarters, and we generally have higher operating cash inflows in the third and fourth quarters. HVAC markets are driven by seasonal weather patterns. HVAC products and services are sold year round, but the volume and mix of product sales and service change significantly by season. The industry generally ships roughly twice as many units during June as it does in December. Overall, cooling equipment represents a substantial portion of the annual HVAC market. Between the heating season (roughly November through February) and cooling season (roughly May through August) are periods commonly referred to as shoulder seasons when the distribution channel transitions its buying patterns from one season to the next. These seasonal fluctuations in mix and volume drive our sales and related segment profit, resulting in somewhat higher sales in the second and third quarters due to the higher volume in the cooling season relative to the heating season. Patents and Trademarks We hold numerous patents that relate to the design and use of our products. We consider these patents important, but no single patent is material to the overall conduct of our business. We proactively obtain patents to further our strategic intellectual property objectives. We own or license several trademarks and service marks we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, and we protect our marks through national registrations and common law rights. Competition Substantially all markets in which we participate are competitive. The most significant competitive factors we face are product reliability, product performance, service and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among our businesses. The following are some of the companies we view as significant competitors in each of our three business segments, with relevant brand names, when different from the company name, shown in parentheses. The marks below may be the registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names of their respective owners. Residential Heating Cooling - Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier, Bryant, Payne, Tempstar, Comfortmaker, Heil, Arcoaire, KeepRite, Day Night); Trane Technologies plc (Trane, American Standard, Ameristar, Oxbox, RunTru); Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem, Ruud, Weather King); Johnson Controls, Inc. (York, Luxaire, Coleman); Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Daikin, Goodman, Amana, GMC); and Melrose Industries PLC (Maytag, Westinghouse, Frigidaire, Tappan, Philco, Kelvinator, Gibson, Broan, NuTone). Commercial Heating Cooling - Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier, ICP Commercial); Trane Technologies plc (Trane); Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem, Ruud); Johnson Controls, Inc. (York); Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Goodman, McQuay); Melrose Industries PLC (Mammoth); and AAON, Inc. Refrigeration - Hussmann Corporation; Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem Manufacturing Company (Heat Transfer Products Group)); Emerson Electric Co. (Copeland); Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier); GEA Group (Kuba, Searle, Goedhart); Alfa Laval; Guntner GmbH; Kelvion - Profroid (Carrier); Panasonic Corp. (Sanyo); Technotrans; and Deltatherm. 4 Human Capital Management Lennox s success, in large part, relies on the character of our people. That character is reflected in Lennox s core values of integrity, respect and excellence. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain employees who embody our core values. Management strives to maintain the right number of employees with the necessary skills to match the expected demand for the products we manufacture and distribute. As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 11,000 people. Of these employees, approximately 4,800 were salaried and 6,200 were hourly. The number of hourly workers varies in order to match our labor needs during periods of fluctuating demand. Approximately 2,500 of our employees, including international locations, are represented by unions. We believe we have good relationships with our employees and with the unions representing our employees. On November 1, 2021, our Marshalltown, Iowa-based union ratified a five-year labor agreement that was immediately effective. We currently do not anticipate any material adverse consequences resulting from negotiations to renew other collective bargaining agreements. To succeed in an ever-changing and competitive labor market, we have identified priorities we believe are critical to our success in attracting, motivating, developing, and retaining employees. These include among other things: (1) providing competitive compensation and benefit programs, (2) providing career development programs, (3) promoting health and safety, and (4) championing a diverse and inclusive work environment. Further information is available in our Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) report available on our website. Compensation and Benefit Programs . We are committed to providing our employees with a competitive compensation package that rewards performance and achievement of desired business results. Our compensation package consists of three primary benefits: pay (base pay and incentive programs), health and welfare benefits, and retirement contributions. We analyze our compensation and benefits programs annually to ensure we remain competitive and make changes as necessary. Career Development Programs. To help our employees succeed in their roles and grow their careers at Lennox, we provide numerous training and development programs. One example is our Career Journey program which provides employees with engaging tools enabling them to reflect on skills and interests, and explore a variety of potential career paths. Career Journey allows employees to have more meaningful career development conversations with their manager. In addition to training and development programs we have a robust performance review and goal setting process for all employees. We believe this helps ensure that employees meet expectations throughout the year while continuing development of their long-term careers at Lennox. Employee Health and Safety. As part of our effort to attract and retain a competitive workforce, we are committed to ensuring that every employee returns home safe at the end of each day. Safety is our top priority and our safety programs are succeeding to reduce risks across our operations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken extensive actions that are aligned with the World Health Organization and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to protect the health and safety of our workers. Diversity and Inclusion. We are committed to a diverse workforce built on a foundation of respect and value for people of different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion enables all employees to be creative, feel challenged, and thrive, which allows us to leverage the unique strengths of our employees to deliver innovative products and solutions for our customers. Our senior managers, together with our human resources team, are devoted to promoting the above priorities to ensure we remain an employer of choice. We regularly conduct anonymous surveys to seek feedback from our employees on a variety of subjects, including safety, communications, diversity and inclusion, management support to succeed within our company, and career growth. Despite these efforts, we have experienced, and could continue to experience, higher employee absenteeism, particularly in manufacturing and distribution locations, as a result of COVID-19-related concerns and other related factors. These concerns have decreased the pool of available qualified talent for certain functions. As a result, we have made and continue to make strong efforts to maintain and recruit qualified talent and are committed to being competitive to retain the best talent possible. Environmental Regulation Our operations are subject to evolving and often increasingly stringent international, federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the environment. Environmental laws affect or could affect our domestic operations. We believe we are in substantial compliance with such existing environmental laws and regulations. Energy Efficiency. The U.S. Department of Energy has numerous active energy conservation rulemakings that impact 5 residential and commercial heating, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. We are actively involved in U.S. Department of Energy and Congressional activities related to energy efficiency. We are prepared to have compliant products in place in advance of the effective dates of all such regulations being considered by the U.S. Department of Energy. Refrigerants. The use of hydroflurocarbons ( HFCs ) as refrigerants for air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is common practice in the HVACR industry and is regulated. We believe we have complied with applicable rules and regulations in various countries governing the use of HFCs. We are an active participant in the ongoing international and domestic dialogue on this subject and are well positioned to react in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory landscape. Remediation Activity . In addition to affecting our ongoing operations, applicable environmental laws can impose obligations to remediate hazardous substances at our properties, at properties formerly owned or operated by us and at facilities to which we have sent or send waste for treatment or disposal. We are aware of contamination at some of our facilities; however, based on facts presently known, we do not believe that any future remediation costs at such facilities will be material to our results of operations. For more information, see Note 5 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the past, we have received notices that we are a potentially responsible party along with other potentially responsible parties in Superfund proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act for cleanup of hazardous substances at certain sites to which the potentially responsible parties are alleged to have sent waste. Based on the facts presently known, we do not believe environmental cleanup costs associated with any Superfund sites about which we have received notice that we are a potentially responsible party will be material to our results of operations. E-Waste and Related Compliance . Many countries around the world as well as many states in the U.S. have enacted directives, laws, and regulations directed at preventing electrical and electronic equipment waste by encouraging reuse and recycling as well as restricting the use of hazardous products in electrical and electronic equipment. All HVACR products and certain components of such products are potentially subject to these types of requirements. We are not uniquely affected as compared to other manufacturers. We actively monitor the development and evolution of such requirements and believe we are well positioned to comply with such directives in the required time frames. Available Information Our web site address is www.lennoxinternational.com . We make available, free of charge through our web site, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably possible after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our web site is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Lennox International, that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information about our Executive Officers Our executive officers, their present positions and their ages are as follows as of February 4, 2022: 6 Name Age Position Todd M. Bluedorn 58 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Reitmeier 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Douglas L. Young 59 Executive Vice President, President and Chief Operating Officer, Residential Heating Cooling Gary S. Bedard 57 Executive Vice President, President and Chief Operating Officer, Worldwide Refrigeration Prakash Bedapudi 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Daniel M. Sessa 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer John D. Torres 63 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Elliot Zimmer 45 Executive Vice President, President and Chief Operating Officer, North America Commercial Heating Cooling Chris A. Kosel 54 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller Todd M. Bluedorn was appointed Chief Executive Officer and was elected to our Board of Directors in April 2007. Mr. Bluedorn was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors in May 2012. Prior to joining Lennox International, Mr. Bluedorn served in numerous senior management positions for United Technologies since 1995, including President, Americas - Otis Elevator Company; President, North America - Commercial Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning for Carrier Corporation; and President, Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial. He began his professional career with McKinsey Company in 1992. A graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point with a bachelor of science in electrical engineering, Mr. Bluedorn is Ranger qualified and served in the U.S. Army as a Combat Engineer officer from 1985 to 1990. He received his MBA from Harvard University School of Business in 1992. Mr. Bluedorn also serves on the Board of Directors of Texas Instruments Incorporated, a global designer and manufacturer of semiconductors, and on the Board of Trustees of Washington University in St. Louis. Mr. Bluedorn served on the Board of Directors of Eaton Corporation, a diversified industrial manufacturer 