ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 8 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 14 ITEM 2. Properties 16 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 17 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 ITEM 6. Reserved 18 ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 31 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 ITEM 9B. Other Information 78 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 78 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 78 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 79 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 79 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 79 ITEM 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 79 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 79 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 82 SIGNATURES 83 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES 84 PART I Item 1. Business References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to we, our, us, Lennox, LII or the Company refer to Lennox International Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. The Company We are a global leader in energy-efficient climate-control solutions. We design, manufacture and market a broad range of products for the heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration ( HVACR ) markets. We have leveraged our expertise to become an industry leader known for innovation, quality and reliability. Our products and services are sold through multiple distribution channels under various brand names. The Company was founded in 1895, in Marshalltown, Iowa, by Dave Lennox, the owner of a machine repair business for railroads. He designed and patented a riveted steel coal-fired furnace, which led to numerous advancements in heating, cooling and climate control solutions. Our three business segments, Home Comfort Solutions (formerly known as Residential Heating Cooling), Building Climate Solutions (formerly known as Commercial Heating Cooling) and Corporate and Other, the key products, services and well-known product and brand names within each segment and net sales in 2023 by segment are shown in the table below. Segment financial data for 2023, 2022 and 2021, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 3 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and is incorporated herein by reference. Segment Products Services Product and Brand Names 2023 Net Sales (in millions) Home Comfort Solutions Furnaces, air conditioners, heat pumps, packaged heating and cooling systems, indoor air quality equipment, comfort control products, replacement parts and supplies Lennox, Dave Lennox Signature Collection, Armstrong Air, Ducane, AirEase, Concord, MagicPak, ADP Advanced Distributor Products, Allied, Elite Series, Merit Series, Comfort Sync, Healthy Climate, Healthy Climate Solutions, iComfort, ComfortSense and Lennox Stores $ 3,222.9 Building Climate Solutions Unitary heating and air conditioning equipment, applied systems, controls, installation and service of commercial heating and cooling equipment, variable refrigerant flow commercial products, curb, curb adapters, drop box diffusers, HVAC recycling and salvage service, condensing units, unit coolers, fluid coolers, air cooled condensers, air handlers, process chillers, controls, compressorized racks Lennox, Model L, CORE, Enlight, Xion, Energence, Prodigy, Strategos, Raider, Lennox VRF, Lennox National Account Services, Allied Commercial, Elite, AES Industries, AES Mechanical, AES Reclaim, Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration,, Bohn, MAGNA, Larkin, Climate Control, Chandler Refrigeration, Frigua-Bohn, IntelliGen and Interlink 1,511.4 Corporate and Other Unitary heating and air conditioning equipment, chillers, air handlers, fan coils, fluid coolers, compressor racks Lennox (Europe HVAC), HK Refrigeration, Hyfra 247.6 Total $ 4,981.9 In November 2022, we announced the decision to explore strategic alternatives for our European commercial heating, ventiliation and air conditioning ( HVAC ) and refrigeration businesses, which represent approximately 5% of our annual revenues. Beginning in 2023, our Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration business became part of the Building Climate Solutions segment and the European portfolio is presented with Corporate and Other. As we have managed the businesses in this manner beginning in 2023, we have presented the financial results of the revised segments beginning in 2023. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we successfully completed the divestiture of our European operations. 1 Products and Services Home Comfort Solutions Heating Cooling Products . We manufacture and market a broad range of furnaces, air conditioners, heat pumps, packaged heating and cooling systems, equipment and accessories to improve indoor air quality, comfort control products, replacement parts and supplies and related products for both the residential replacement and new construction markets in North America. These products are available in a variety of designs and efficiency levels and at a range of price points, and are intended to provide a complete line of home comfort systems. We believe that by maintaining a broad product line marketed under multiple brand names, we can address different market segments and penetrate multiple distribution channels. The Lennox business and brands ( Dave Lennox Signature Collection, Elite Series, Merit Series, iComfort, ComfortSense and Healthy Climate Solutions ) are sold directly to independent installing dealers, making us one of the largest wholesale distributors of residential heating, ventilation, and air conditioning products in North America. We continue to invest in our network of Lennox Stores across the United States and Canada. These stores provide an easy access solution for contractors and independent dealers to obtain universal service and replacement parts, supplies, convenience items, tools, Lennox equipment and OEM parts. The Allied Air Enterprise business and brands ( Armstrong Air, AirEase, Concord, Ducane, Allied, and MagicPak ) include a full line of heating, ventilation and air conditioning products and are sold through independent wholesale distributors in the U.S. and Canada. The Allied Air Enterprise business also sells a full line of heating, ventilation and cooling equipment through private label brands. The Advanced Distributor Products ( ADP ) business and brand ( ADP Advanced Distributor Products ) sells evaporator coils, air handlers and unit heaters to independent HVAC wholesale distributors across the U.S. and Canada. Building Climate Solutions Heating and Cooling Products. In North America, we manufacture and sell unitary heating and cooling equipment used in light commercial applications, such as low-rise office buildings, restaurants, retail centers, distribution, churches and schools. Our product offerings for these applications include rooftop units ranging from 2 to 30 tons of cooling capacity and split system/air handler combinations, which range from 1.5 to 20 tons of cooling capacity. These products are distributed primarily through commercial contractors and directly to national account customers. In 2021, we launched the Lennox Model L rooftop unit featuring the industry leading CORE control system and advanced variable-speed technology to maximize rebates and energy savings. In late 2022, we introduced the Enlight rooftop unit which features a high efficiency heat pump line that is positioned to help our customers reach their environmental and sustainability goals. In 2023, we successfully updated our line of commercial HVAC equipment to comply with the latest energy conservation standard from the U.S. Department of Energy. We believe the success of our products is attributable to their efficiency, impact to the environment, design flexibility, total cost of ownership, ease of service, and advanced control technology. National Account Services . National Account Service ( NAS ) provides installation, service and preventive maintenance for commercial HVAC national account customers in the United States and Canada. AES . On October 25, 2023, we announced the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of AES Industries, Inc. and AES Mechanical Service Group, Inc. (collectively, AES ) to the Building Climate Solutions segment. AES is a company dedicated to service and sustainability in the light commercial markets across North America. AES manufactures curb, curb adapters, drop box diffusers and also offers HVAC recycling and salvage service, as well as focusing on multi-facility HVAC replacement for expired mechanical assets. Refrigeration Products. We manufacture and market equipment for the commercial refrigeration markets under the Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration name. We sell these products to distributors, installing contractors, engineering design firms, original equipment manufacturers and end-users. Our global manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing footprint serves customers in approximately 100 countries worldwide. Our commercial refrigeration products for the North American market include condensing units, unit coolers, fluid coolers, air-cooled condensers, air handlers and refrigeration rack systems. These products preserve food and other perishables in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants, warehouses and distribution centers. In addition, our products are used to cool a wide variety of industrial processes, including data centers, machine tooling, and other critical cooling applications. We 2 routinely provide application engineering for consulting engineers, contractors, store planners, end customers and others to support the sale of commercial refrigeration products. In addition, we own a 50% interest in a joint venture in Mexico that produces unit coolers, air-cooled condensers, condensing units, compressors and compressorized racks of the same design and quality as those manufactured by our U.S. business. This joint venture product line is complemented with imports from the U.S., which are sold through the joint venture s distribution network. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment included the results of our European operations. We manufactured and sold unitary HVAC products, which ranged from 2 to 70 tons of cooling capacity, and applied systems with up to 200 tons of cooling capacity. Our European products consisted of small package units, rooftop units, chillers, air handlers and fan coils that served medium-rise commercial buildings, shopping malls, other retail and entertainment buildings, institutional applications and other field-engineered applications. We manufactured heating and cooling products in several locations in Europe and marketed these products through both direct and indirect distribution channels. We also manufactured and marketed refrigeration products including condensing units, unit coolers, air-cooled condensers, fluid coolers, compressor racks and industrial process chillers. We had manufacturing locations in Germany, France and Spain. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we successfully completed the divestiture of our European operations. Business Strategy Lennox offers a full spectrum of cooling, heating, indoor air quality and refrigeration products to meet the energy-efficient climate-control needs of residential and commercial customers across North America. We are focused on expanding our market position primarily through organic growth while managing prices and costs to drive margin expansion and higher profits. We have implemented a self-help transformation plan, which has been steering our current success, that is structured around three phases over the next several years. Differentiated Growth. We are investing in our sales force to expand customer touchpoints, enhancing the overall customer experience through digital innovations and anticipating improved output from our new commercial HVAC factory in Mexico. Additionally, we aim to increase the attachment rate for parts and accessories, ensuring a holistic experience for our customers. Resilient Profit Margins . We are committed to driving resilient margins. This involves maintaining pricing excellence, leveraging greater productivity from volume recovery, realizing material cost reductions, and reaping the mix benefits of transitioning to the new R454B product. These actions collectively fortify our financial position and solidify our sustainable competitive advantage. Execution Management . We will leverage the Lennox Unified Management System to streamline our operations and set clear priorities. A focused strategy, investments in heat pump growth, and enhancements to our distribution network further exemplify our commitment to consistent management execution. Marketing and Distribution We utilize multiple channels of distribution and offer different brands at various price points in order to better penetrate the HVACR markets. Our products and services are sold through a combination of direct sales, distributors and company-owned parts and supplies stores. Dedicated sales forces and manufacturers representatives are deployed across our business segments and brands in a manner designed to maximize our ability to service each distribution channel. To optimize enterprise-wide effectiveness, we have active cross-functional and cross-organizational teams coordinating approaches to pricing, product design, distribution and national account customers. The North American residential heating and cooling market provides an example of the competitive strength of our marketing and distribution strategy. We use three distinct distribution approaches in this market: the company-owned distribution system, the independent distribution system and direct sales to end-users. We distribute our Lennox brands in a company-owned process directly to independent dealers that install these heating and cooling products. We distribute our Armstrong Air, Ducane, Air-Ease, Concord, MagicPak and ADP Advanced Distributor Products brands through the traditional independent distribution process pursuant to which we sell our products to distributors who, in turn, sell the products to installing contractors. We also sell our products through our Lennox Stores. 3 Manufacturing We operate manufacturing facilities in North America and utilize the best available manufacturing techniques based on the needs of our businesses, including the use of lean manufacturing and principles of Six Sigma, a disciplined, data-driven approach and methodology for improving quality. We use numerous metrics to track and manage annual efficiency improvements. Some facilities are impacted by seasonal production demand, and we manufacture both heating and cooling products in those facilities to balance production and maintain a relatively stable labor force. We may also hire temporary employees to meet changes in demand. Strategic Sourcing We partner with various suppliers to procure the raw materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products. We utilize a central strategic sourcing group that consolidates purchases of certain materials, components and indirect items across business segments to maximize our purchasing strength. The goal of the strategic sourcing group is to develop global strategies for a given component group that focuses on developing long-term relationships that provide significant value to our businesses. Our strategic sourcing group is focused on selecting partners that offer a competitive total cost, industry leading quality, and consistent on time delivery. Compressors, motors and controls constitute our most significant component purchases, while steel, copper and aluminum account for the bulk of our raw material purchases. We own a minority equity interest in a joint venture that manufactures compressors for our residential and commercial heating and cooling, and refrigeration businesses to help provide the necessary supply to meet customer needs. Research and Development and Technology Research and development is a key pillar of our growth strategy. We operate an engineering and technology organization that focuses on new technology invention, product development, product quality improvements and process enhancements, including our development of next-generation control systems as well as heating and cooling products that include some of the most efficient products in their respective categories. We leverage intellectual property and innovative designs across our businesses. We also leverage product development cycle time improvements and product data management systems to commercialize new products to market more rapidly. We use advanced, commercially available computer-aided design, computer-aided manufacturing, computational fluid dynamics and other sophisticated design tools to streamline the design and manufacturing processes. We use complex computer simulations and analyses in the conceptual design phase before functional prototypes are created. We also operate a full line of prototype machine equipment and advanced laboratories certified by applicable industry associations. Seasonality Our sales and related segment profit tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning equipment and services in the U.S. and Canada. For the same reason, our working capital needs are generally greater in the first and second quarters, and we generally have higher operating cash inflows in the third and fourth quarters. HVAC markets are driven by seasonal weather patterns. HVAC products and services are sold year round, but the volume and mix of product sales and service change significantly by season. The industry generally ships roughly twice as many units during June as it does in December. Overall, cooling equipment represents a substantial portion of the annual HVAC market. Between the heating season (roughly November through February) and cooling season (roughly May through August) are periods commonly referred to as shoulder seasons when the distribution channel transitions its buying patterns from one season to the next. These seasonal fluctuations in mix and volume drive our sales and related segment profit, resulting in somewhat higher sales in the second and third quarters due to the higher volume in the cooling season relative to the heating season. Patents and Trademarks We hold numerous patents that relate to the design and use of our products. We consider these patents important, but no single patent is material to the overall conduct of our business. We proactively obtain patents to further our strategic intellectual property objectives. We own or license several trademarks and service marks we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, and we protect our marks through national registrations and common law rights. 4 Competition Substantially all markets in which we participate are competitive. The most significant competitive factors we face are product availability, reliability, energy efficiency, product performance, service, and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among customer applications. The following are some of the companies we view as significant competitors in each of our business segments, with relevant brand names, when different from the company name, shown in parentheses. The marks below may be the registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names of their respective owners. Home Comfort Solutions Heating Cooling Products - Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier, Bryant, Payne, Tempstar, Comfortmaker, Heil, Arcoaire, KeepRite, Day Night); Trane Technologies plc (Trane, American Standard, Ameristar, Oxbox, RunTru); Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem, Ruud, Weather King, Friedrich); Johnson Controls, Inc. (York, Luxaire, Coleman, Champion); Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Daikin, Goodman, Amana, GMC); and Melrose Industries PLC (Maytag, Westinghouse, Frigidaire, Tappan, Philco, Kelvinator, Gibson, Broan, NuTone). Building Climate Solutions Heating Cooling Products - Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier, ICP Commercial); Trane Technologies plc (Trane); Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem, Ruud); Johnson Controls, Inc. (York); Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Goodman, McQuay); Melrose Industries PLC (Mammoth); and AAON, Inc. Refrigeration Products - Hussmann Corporation; Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem Manufacturing Company (Heat Transfer Products Group)); Emerson Electric Co. (Copeland); Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier); GEA Group (Kuba, Searle, Goedhart); Alfa Laval; Guntner GmbH; Kelvion - Profroid (Carrier); Panasonic Corp. (Sanyo); Technotrans; and Deltatherm. Human Capital Management Our success, in large part, relies on the character of our people. That character is reflected in our core values of integrity, respect and excellence. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain employees who embody our core values. Management strives to maintain the right number of employees with the necessary skills to match the expected demand for the products and services we deliver. As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 12,600 people. Of these employees, approximately 4,800 were salaried and 7,800 were hourly. The number of hourly workers varies in order to match our labor needs during periods of fluctuating demand. Approximately 3,600 of our employees, including international locations, are represented by unions. We believe we have good relationships with our employees and with the unions representing them. On November 1, 2021, our Marshalltown, Iowa-based union ratified a five-year labor agreement. We currently do not anticipate any material adverse consequences resulting from negotiations to renew other collective bargaining agreements. The Compensation Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors is tasked with reviewing LII s human capital management strategy and talent initiatives, including employee diversity, equity, and inclusion and succession planning. Additionally, the Public Policy Committee of the Board oversees employee health and safety issues. The committees also report to the full Board on these key employee matters. To succeed in an ever-changing and competitive labor market, we have identified priorities we believe are critical to our success in attracting, motivating, developing, and retaining employees. These include among other things: (1) providing competitive compensation and benefit programs, (2) providing career development programs, (3) promoting health and safety, and (4) championing a diverse and inclusive work environment. Further information on our sustainability commitment is available on our website. The information on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Compensation and Benefit Programs . We are committed to providing our employees with a competitive compensation package that rewards performance and achievement of desired business results. Our compensation package consists of three primary benefits: pay (base pay and incentive programs linked to our short-term and long-term business goals), health and welfare benefits, and retirement contributions. We analyze our compensation and benefits programs annually to remain competitive and make changes as necessary. Career Development Programs. To help our employees succeed in their roles and grow their careers at Lennox, we provide numerous training and development programs. One example is our Career Journey program which provides employees with 5 engaging tools and resources enabling them to reflect on skills and interests, maintain an individual development plan, and explore a variety of potential career paths. Career Journey allows employees to have more meaningful career development conversations with their manager. In addition to training and development programs, we regularly conduct succession planning reviews and have robust performance review and goal setting processes for all employees. We believe this helps employees meet expectations throughout the year while continuing development of their long-term careers at Lennox. Employee Health and Safety. As part of our effort to attract and retain a competitive workforce, we are committed to ensuring that every employee returns home safe at the end of each day. Safety is our top priority and our safety programs are succeeding in identifying and reducing risks across our operations. Diversity and Inclusion. We are committed to a diverse workforce built on a foundation of respect and value for people of different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion enables all employees to be creative, feel challenged, and thrive, which ultimately allows us to leverage the unique strengths of our employees to deliver innovative products and solutions for our customers. Our senior managers, together with our human resources team, are devoted to promoting the above priorities to remain an employer of choice. We regularly conduct anonymous surveys to seek feedback from our employees on a variety of subjects, including safety, communications, diversity and inclusion, management support to succeed within our company, and career growth. Despite these efforts, we have experienced, and could continue to experience, higher employee turnover, particularly in our manufacturing and distribution locations. As a result, we have made and continue to make strong efforts to recruit qualified talent to the organization. Environmental Regulation Our operations are subject to evolving and often increasingly stringent international, federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the environment. Environmental laws affect or could affect our operations. We believe we are in substantial compliance with such existing environmental laws and regulations. Energy Efficiency. The U.S. Department of Energy has numerous active energy conservation rulemakings that impact residential and commercial heating, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. We are actively involved in U.S. Department of Energy activities related to energy efficiency. We are prepared to have compliant products in place in advance of the effective dates of all such regulations being considered by the U.S. Department of Energy. Refrigerants. The use of hydroflurocarbons ( HFCs ) as refrigerants for air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is common practice in the HVACR industry and is regulated. We believe we have complied with applicable rules and regulations in various countries governing the use of HFCs. We are an active participant in the ongoing international and domestic dialogue on this subject and are well positioned to react in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory landscape. In 2020, in response to a global agreement to reduce greenhouse gasses, the bipartisan American Innovation and Manufacturing Act gave the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) authority to regulate HFCs and begin the phase down of refrigerants with a higher global warming potential (GWP). The EPA mandated that manufacturers transition to refrigerants with a GWP of 700 or less by January 1, 2025, for most commercial and residential HVAC products. Transition planning to lower GWP refrigerants for HVACR products is underway. Remediation Activity . In addition to affecting our ongoing operations, applicable environmental laws can impose obligations to remediate hazardous substances at our properties, at properties formerly owned or operated by us and at facilities to which we have sent or send waste for treatment or disposal. We are aware of contamination at some of our facilities; however, based on facts presently known, we do not believe that any future remediation costs at such facilities will be material to our results of operations. For more information, see Note 5 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the past, we have received notices that we are a potentially responsible party along with other potentially responsible parties in Superfund proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act for cleanup of hazardous substances at certain sites to which the potentially responsible parties are alleged to have sent waste. Based on the facts presently known, we do not believe environmental cleanup costs associated with any Superfund sites about which we have received notice that we are a potentially responsible party will be material to our results of operations. E-Waste and Related Compliance . Many countries around the world as well as many states in the U.S. have enacted directives, laws, and regulations directed at preventing electrical and electronic equipment waste by encouraging reuse and recycling as well as restricting the use of hazardous products in electrical and electronic equipment. All HVACR products and 6 certain components of such products are potentially subject to these types of requirements. We are not uniquely affected as compared to other manufacturers. We actively monitor the development and evolution of such requirements and believe we are well positioned to comply with such directives in the required time frames. Available Information Our web site address is www.lennox.com. We make available, free o