ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Linde plc is a public limited company formed under the laws of Ireland with its principal offices in the United Kingdom. Linde plc was formed in 2017 in accordance with the requirements of the business combination agreement, dated June 1, 2017, as amended, between Linde plc, Praxair, Inc. ("Praxair") and Linde Aktiengesellschaft ("Linde AG"). Effective October 31, 2018, the business combination was completed and Linde plc is comprised of the businesses of Praxair and Linde AG (hereinafter the combined group will be referred to as "the company" or "Linde"). The business combination brought together two leading companies in the global industrial gases industry, leveraging the proven strengths of each. Linde believes the merger will combine Linde AG s long-held expertise in technology with Praxair s efficient operating model, thus creating a global leader. The company is expected to have strong positions in key geographies and end markets that will create a more diverse and balanced global portfolio. Linde is the largest industrial gas company worldwide and is a major technological innovator in the industrial gases industry. Its primary products in its industrial gases business are atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, and rare gases) and process gases (carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, electronic gases, specialty gases, and acetylene). The company also designs and builds equipment that produces industrial gases primarily for internal use and offers customers a wide range of gas production and processing services such as olefin plants, natural gas plants, air separation plants, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants and other types of plants. Linde serves a diverse group of industries including healthcare, petroleum refining, manufacturing, food, beverage carbonation, fiber-optics, steel making, aerospace, chemicals, electronics and water treatment. In 2018, the company, Praxair and Linde AG entered into various agreements with regulatory authorities to satisfy antitrust requirements to secure approval to consummate the business combination. These agreements required the sale of the majority of Praxair's European industrial gases business (completed on December 3, 2018), the majority of Linde AG's Americas industrial gases business (completed on March 1, 2019), select assets of Linde AG's South Korea industrial gases business (completed April 30, 2019), select assets of Praxair's Indian industrial gases business (completed July 12, 2019), select assets of Linde AG's Indian industrial gases business (completed December 16, 2019) as well as certain divestitures of other Praxair and Linde AG businesses in Asia that are expected to be sold in 2020. As of December 31, 2018 and until the completion of the majority of such divestitures, Linde AG and Praxair were obligated to operate their businesses globally as separate and independent companies, and not coordinate any of their commercial operations. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission's ( FTC ) hold separate order ( HSO ) restrictions were lifted March 1, 2019, concurrent with the sale of the required merger-related divestitures in the United States. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to divestitures. Praxair was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the business combination. Accordingly, the historical financial statements of Praxair for the periods prior to the business combination are considered to be the historical financial statements of the company. The results of Linde AG are included in Linde's consolidated results from the date of the completion of the business combination forward. During 2018, the company reported its continuing operations in six reporting segments under which it managed its operations, assessed performance, and reported earnings: North America, South America, Asia, Europe, Surface Technologies and Linde AG. Effective with the lifting of the hold separate order on March 1, 2019, new operating segments were established. Linde s industrial gases operations are managed on a geographic basis, which represents three of the company's new reportable segments - Americas, EMEA (Europe/Middle East/Africa), and APAC (Asia/South Pacific); a fourth reportable segment which represents the company's Engineering business, designs and manufactures equipment for air separation and other industrial gas applications specifically for end customers and is managed on a worldwide basis operating in all geographic segments. Other consists of corporate costs and a few smaller businesses, which individually do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate presentation. Linde s sales were $28,228 million , $14,836 million , and $11,358 million for 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. Refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, for a discussion of consolidated sales and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to Linde s reportable segments. Industrial Gases Products and Manufacturing Processes Atmospheric gases are the highest volume products produced by Linde. Using air as its raw material, Linde produces oxygen, nitrogen and argon through several air separation processes of which cryogenic air separation is the most prevalent. Rare gases, such as krypton, neon and xenon, are also produced through cryogenic air separation. As a pioneer 4 Table of Contents in the industrial gases industry, Linde is a leader in developing a wide range of proprietary and patented applications and supply systems technology. Linde also led the development and commercialization of non-cryogenic air separation technologies for the production of industrial gases. These technologies open important new markets and optimize production capacity for the company by lowering the cost of supplying industrial gases. These technologies include proprietary vacuum pressure swing adsorption ( VPSA ) and membrane separation to produce gaseous oxygen and nitrogen, respectively. Process gases, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, helium, specialty gases and acetylene are produced by methods other than air separation. Most carbon dioxide is purchased from by-product sources, including chemical plants, refineries and industrial processes or is recovered from carbon dioxide wells. Carbon dioxide is processed in Linde s plants to produce commercial and food-grade carbon dioxide. Hydrogen and carbon monoxide can be produced by either steam methane reforming or auto-thermal reforming of natural gas or other feed streams such as naphtha. Hydrogen is also produced by purifying by-product sources obtained from the chemical and petrochemical industries. Acetylene is primarily sourced as a chemical by-product, but may also be produced from calcium carbide and water. Industrial Gases Distribution There are three basic distribution methods for industrial gases: (i) on-site or tonnage; (ii) merchant or bulk liquid; and (iii) packaged or cylinder gases. These distribution methods are often integrated, with products from all three supply modes coming from the same plant. The method of supply is generally determined by the lowest cost means of meeting the customer s needs, depending upon factors such as volume requirements, purity, pattern of usage, and the form in which the product is used (as a gas or as a cryogenic liquid). On-site. Customers that require the largest volumes of product (typically oxygen, nitrogen and hydrogen) and that have a relatively constant demand pattern are supplied by cryogenic and process gas on-site plants. Linde constructs plants on or adjacent to these customers sites and supplies the product directly to customers by pipeline. On-site product supply contracts generally are total requirement contracts with terms typically ranging from 10-20 years and containing minimum purchase requirements and price escalation provisions. Many of the cryogenic on-site plants also produce liquid products for the merchant market. Therefore, plants are typically not dedicated to a single customer. Advanced air separation processes allow on-site delivery to customers with smaller volume requirements. Customers using these systems usually enter into requirement contracts with terms typically ranging from ten to twenty years. Merchant. The merchant business is generally associated with distributable liquid oxygen, nitrogen, argon, carbon dioxide, hydrogen and helium. The deliveries generally are made from Linde s plants by tanker trucks to storage containers at the customer's site which are owned and maintained by Linde and leased to the customer. Due to distribution cost, merchant oxygen and nitrogen generally have a relatively small distribution radius from the plants at which they are produced. Merchant argon, hydrogen and helium can be shipped much longer distances. The customer agreements used in the merchant business are usually three to seven-year requirement contracts. Packaged Gases. Customers requiring small volumes are supplied products in metal containers called cylinders, under medium to high pressure. Packaged gases include atmospheric gases, carbon dioxide, hydrogen, helium, acetylene and related products. Linde also produces and distributes in cylinders a wide range of specialty gases and mixtures. Cylinders may be delivered to the customer s site or picked up by the customer at a packaging facility or retail store. Packaged gases are generally sold under one to three-year supply contracts and through purchase orders. A substantial amount of the cylinder gases sold in the United States are distributed by independent distributors that buy merchant gases in liquid form and repackage the products in their facilities. Packaged gas distributors, including Linde, also distribute hardgoods and welding equipment purchased from independent manufacturers. Over time, Linde has acquired a number of independent industrial gases and welding products distributors at various locations in the United States and continues to sell merchant gases to other independent distributors. Between its own distribution business, joint ventures and sales to independent distributors, Linde is represented in 48 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Engineering Linde s Engineering business has a global presence, with its focus on market segments such as olefin, natural gas, air separation, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants. The company utilizes its own extensive process engineering know-how in the planning, project development and construction of turnkey industrial plants and associated services. Linde plants are used in a wide variety of fields: in the petrochemical and chemical industries, in refineries and fertilizer plants, to recover air gases, to produce hydrogen and synthesis gases, to treat natural gas and to produce noble gases. The Engineering business either supplies plant components and services directly to the customer or to the industrial gas business of Linde which operates the plants on behalf of the customer under a long-term gases supply contract. 5 Table of Contents Inventories Linde carries inventories of merchant and cylinder gases, hardgoods and coatings materials to supply products to its customers on a reasonable delivery schedule. On-site plants and pipeline complexes have limited inventory. Inventory obsolescence is not material to Linde s business. Customers Linde is not dependent upon a single customer or a few customers. International Linde is a global enterprise with approximately 70% of its 2019 sales outside of the United States. The company also has majority or wholly owned subsidiaries that operate in approximately 45 European, Middle Eastern and African countries (including Germany, France, Sweden, the Republic of South Africa, and the United Kingdom); approximately 20 Asian and South Pacific countries (including China, Taiwan, India and Australia); and approximately 20 countries in North and South America (including Canada, Mexico and Brazil). The company also has equity method investments operating in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and North America. Linde s international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, import and export controls, and other economic, political and regulatory policies of local governments. Also, see