ITEM 1. BUSINESS 2 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 37 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 37 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 39 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 39 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 39 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 40 ITEM 6. RESERVED 41 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 42 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 60 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 61 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 122 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 122 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 124 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 124 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 125 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 125 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 125 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 125 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 125 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 126 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 129 SIGNATURES 130 1 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). These statements relate to, among other things, our markets and industry, products and strategy, the impact of export regulation changes, the expected benefits of our acquisitions, macroeconomic conditions, including supply chain conditions and inventory management by our customers, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, instability and uncertainty in the banking and financial services markets, and tightening credit markets on our business and results of operations, sales, gross margins, operating expenses, capital expenditures and requirements, liquidity, product development and research and development efforts, manufacturing plans, litigation, effective tax rates and tax reserves, our corporate and financial reporting structure, our plans for growth and innovation, our expectations regarding U.S.-China relations, market and regulatory conditions, trends and uncertainties in our business and financial results, and are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, contemplate, believe, predict, potential and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included under Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Overview Lumentum Holdings Inc. ( we, us, our , Lumentum or the Company ) is an industry-leading provider of optical and photonic products essential to a range of cloud, artificial intelligence and machine learning ( AI/ML ), telecommunications, consumer, and industrial end-market applications. We operate in two end-market focused reportable segments, Cloud Networking and Industrial Tech. Our Cloud Networking products include a comprehensive portfolio of optical and photonic components, modules, and subsystems supplied to cloud and communications network operators and network equipment manufacturers building cloud data center infrastructure, including products for AI/ML and data center interconnect ( DCI ) applications, and communications service provider networks, including products for access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (city-to-city and worldwide), and submarine (undersea) network infrastructure. Our Cloud Networking products also support network equipment manufacturers building enterprise network infrastructure. Demand for our Cloud Networking products is driven by the rapid growth in cloud and network capacity required for expanding cloud computing and services, including for AI/ML, streaming video and video conferencing, gaming, wireless and mobile devices, and internet of things ( IoT ). Our Industrial Tech products include solid-state lasers, kilowatt-class fiber lasers, diode lasers, ultrafast lasers, and gas lasers, which address applications in numerous end-markets. In the industrial manufacturing end-market, our lasers are incorporated into our customers manufacturing machine tools used for the precision processing of materials in a range of industries including semiconductor device and microelectronics fabrication, electric vehicle and battery production, metal cutting and welding, and advanced manufacturing. Our lasers also address certain semiconductor inspection and life-science applications. Our products can also be used in the industrial end-market in imaging and sensing systems for process feedback and control, quality assurance, and waste reduction. Adoption of our products in the industrial end-market is driven by the needs of customers to advance semiconductor and microelectronics industry roadmaps, including those that support cloud data center and AI/ML infrastructure, and by Industry 4.0/5.0 trends, including increasing manufacturing precision and flexibility and reducing waste and environmental impact. Demand for our products in the industrial end-market is driven by end-customer investments in manufacturing capacity. In the consumer end-market, our laser light sources are integrated into our customers 3D sensing cameras, which are used in mobile devices and other consumer electronics devices to enable applications including biometric identification, computational photography and virtual and augmented reality. In the automotive end-market, our lasers are used in our customers LiDAR and other optical sensor devices, which are being used in advanced driver assistance systems ( ADAS ) and in-cabin driver and occupant monitoring systems. 2 Table of Contents We have a global footprint that enables us to address global market opportunities for our products with employees engaged in research and development ( R D ), administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. We have manufacturing capabilities and facilities in North America, South America, Asia-Pacific and Europe. Our headquarters are located in San Jose, California, and we employed approximat ely 7,257 full -time employees around the world as of June 29, 2024. Lumentum was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of JDS Uniphase Corporation ( JDSU ) on February 10, 2015. In August 2015, we were spun-off from JDSU and became an independent publicly traded company through the distribution of our common stock by JDSU to its stockholders. In 2015, the remaining parent company, JDSU was renamed Viavi Solutions Inc. ( Viavi ). Our business traces its origins to Uniphase Corporation, which was formed in 1979 and became publicly traded in 1992. Uniphase was originally a supplier of commercial lasers, and later became a leading supplier of optical transmission products. In 1999, JDS Fitel Inc., a pioneer in products for fiber optic networking which was formed in 1981, merged with Uniphase to become JDSU, a global leader in optical networking. Subsequent acquisitions by JDSU broadened the depth and breadth of what is now Lumentum s businesses, as well as the intellectual property, technology and product offerings of the company. The fundamental laser and photonic component technologies which we acquired through various acquisitions form the basis of cloud and communications optical network infrastructure today. These technologies will continue to enable us to develop highly integrated products to satisfy our customers ever-increasing needs for smaller, lower power and lower cost optical and photonic products. In December 2018, we completed the acquisition of Oclaro, Inc. ( Oclaro ). This acquisition strengthened our product portfolio, by adding Oclaro s indium phosphide laser and photonic integrated circuit and coherent component and module capabilities which broadened our revenue mix and helps position us well to meet the future needs of our customers. In August 2022, we completed the acquisition of NeoPhotonics Corporation ( NeoPhotonics ). The addition of NeoPhotonics expanded our opportunities in optical components used in cloud and telecom network infrastructure. In August 2022, we completed a transaction to acquire IPG Photonics telecom transmission product lines ( IPG telecom transmission product lines ) that develop and market products for use in telecommunications and datacenter infrastructure, including coherent Digital Signal Processors ( DSPs ), application-specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ) and optical transceivers. In November 2023, we completed the acquisition of Cloud Light Technology Limited ( Cloud Light ). Cloud Light designs, markets, and manufactures advanced optical modules for data center interconnect applications. The acquisition enables us to be well-positioned to serve the growing needs of cloud and networking customers, particularly those customers focused on optimizing their data center infrastructure for the demands of AI/ML. Industry Trends and Business Risks Our business is driven by end-market applications leveraging the performance advantages of advanced optical and photonic solutions. We operate within global markets characterized by robust, long-term growth trends that are increasing demand for our products and technologies. The convergence of factors including the growing reliance on data transmission, the rapid adoption of AI/ML, and the increasing digitalization of society is driving expansion in cloud data centers and the demand for higher-bandwidth network solutions. Lumentum's products and technologies are at the forefront of these trends, engineered to support increased data volumes and computational loads while meeting the industry's need for advanced network capabilities. Additionally, the manufacturing industry's pursuit of higher precision, innovative materials, and improved efficiency fuels demand for industrial laser-based solutions. Lumentum is well-positioned to capitalize on this trend through the provision of ultrafast lasers for micromachining and advanced material processing, as well as laser-based 3D sensing and LiDAR technologies for applications across various sectors. Our optical and photonic solutions, developed in close partnership with OEMs and end users, are well-positioned to capitalize on these emerging market opportunities. While we maintain a positive outlook on the long-term prospects for our products and technologies, we acknowledge the presence of industry and market risks and uncertainties. Fluctuations in supply and demand, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent inventory adjustments, coupled with evolving export regulations, have led to volatility in our financial performance and created uncertainty regarding future customer demand. 3 Table of Contents Industry Inventory Correction In response to supply shortages caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, certain customers accumulated higher-than-normal inventory levels, including our products, as a precautionary measure. As supply constraints started easing, towards the latter half of fiscal year 2023, customers began reducing purchases of our products to align their inventory levels with more normalized levels of end-market demand. This inventory correction was amplified by similar actions subsequently taken by our customers' customers, who also sought to reduce their excess inventory by decreasing purchases. Consequently, our business has experienced a prolonged period of lower revenue, leading to significant underutilization of manufacturing capacity and reduced profit margins in fiscal year 2024. While we anticipate an eventual normalization of inventory levels across the supply chain, the timing and pace of this recovery remain uncertain and could be influenced by macroeconomic and financial market conditions. For more information on risks associated with supply chain constraints and customer inventory, refer to