ITEM 1. BUSINESS 2 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 27 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 28 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 29 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 30 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 31 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 33 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 35 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 53 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 55 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 109 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 109 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 111 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 112 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 112 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 112 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 112 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 112 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES 113 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 117 SIGNATURES 118 1 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act ). These statements relate to, among other things, our markets and industry, products and strategy, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related responses of business and governments to the pandemic on our business and results of operations, sales, gross margins, operating expenses, capital expenditures and requirements, liquidity, product development and R D efforts, manufacturing plans, litigation, effective tax rates and tax reserves, our corporate and financial reporting structure, our plans for growth and innovation, our plans to discontinue certain operations and product lines, our expectations regarding US-China relations, market and regulatory conditions, the successful integration of Oclaro s business (including personnel), and our expected synergies and non-GAAP earnings accretion from the acquisition of Oclaro, and are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, contemplate, believe, predict, potential and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included under Part I, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Overview Lumentum Holdings Inc. ( we, us, our , Lumentum or the Company ) is an industry-leading provider of optical and photonic products defined by revenue and market share addressing a range of end market applications including Optical Communications ( OpComms ) and Commercial Lasers ( Lasers ) for manufacturing, inspection and life-science applications. We seek to use our core optical and photonic technology, and our volume manufacturing capability, to expand into attractive emerging markets that benefit from advantages that optical or photonics-based solutions provide, including 3D sensing for consumer electronics and diode light sources for a variety of consumer and industrial applications. The majority of our customers tend to be original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) that incorporate our products into their products which then address end-market applications. For example, we sell fiber optic components that network equipment manufacturers ( NEMs ) assemble into communications networking systems, which they sell to network service providers, operators or enterprises with their own networks. Similarly, many of our customers for our Lasers products incorporate our products into tools they produce, which are used for manufacturing processes by their customers. For 3D sensing, we sell diode lasers to manufacturers of consumer electronics products for mobile, personal computing, gaming, and other applications who then integrate our devices within their products, for eventual resale to consumers and also into other industrial applications. Further, we have begun shipping prototype units of diode lasers and optical devices to automotive customers for sensing and LiDAR applications. We believe the world is becoming more reliant on ever-increasing amounts of data flowing through optical networks and data centers, which require new networks and data centers to satisfy this demand. As manufacturers demand higher levels of precision, new materials, and factory and energy efficiency, suppliers of manufacturing tools globally are turning to laser based approaches, including the types of lasers Lumentum supplies. Laser based 3D sensing is a rapidly developing market. The technology enables computer vision applications that enhance security, safety, and new functionality in the electronic devices that people rely on every day. We believe the global markets in which Lumentum participates have fundamentally robust, long-term trends that increase the need for our photonics products and technologies. We operate in two reportable segments: OpComms and Lasers. We have a global marketing and sales footprint that enables us to address global market opportunities for our products. We have manufacturing capabilities and facilities in North America, Asia-Pacific, and Europe, with employees engaged in research and development ( R D ), administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. Our headquarters are located in San Jose, California, and we employed approximately 5,473 full-time employees around the world as of June 27, 2020 . 2 Table of Contents Lumentum was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of JDS Uniphase Corporation ( JDSU ) on February 10, 2015. In August 2015, we were spun-off from JDSU (the Separation ) and became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution of our common stock by JDSU to its stockholders (the Separation ). In 2015, JDSU was renamed Viavi Solutions Inc. ( Viavi ). Our business traces its origins to Uniphase Corporation, which was formed in 1979, and became publicly traded in 1992. Uniphase was originally a supplier of commercial lasers, and later, a leading supplier of optical transmission products. In 1999, JDS Fitel Inc., a pioneer in products for fiber optic networking which was formed in 1981, merged with Uniphase to become JDSU, a global leader in optical networking. Subsequent acquisitions by JDSU broadened the depth and breadth of the OpComms and Lasers businesses, as well as the intellectual property, technology and product offerings, of what is now Lumentum. Notable amongst these acquisitions in the OpComms business were Agility Communications, Inc. in 2005 and Picolight, Inc. in 2007 which respectively brought widely tunable, long wavelength laser technology for metro and long haul networking applications and short wavelength vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers ( VCSELs ) for enterprise, datacenter networking, and 3D sensing applications. The fundamental laser component technologies which we acquired through these acquisitions, form the basis of optical networks today, and we believe will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. These technologies will enable us to develop highly integrated products to satisfy our communications customers ever increasing needs for smaller, lower power and lower cost optical products. Notable acquisitions in the Lasers business were Lightwave Electronics Corporation in 2005 and Time-Bandwidth Products Inc. ( Time-Bandwidth ) in 2014. Both of these Lasers acquisitions brought high power pulsed solid-state laser products and technology to our business, which address the micro laser machining market and expanded our addressable market. In December 2018, we completed the acquisition of ( Oclaro ), a provider of optical components and modules for the long-haul, metro and data center markets. Oclaro s products provide differentiated solutions for optical networks and high-speed interconnects driving the next wave of streaming video, cloud computing, application virtualization and other bandwidth-intensive and high-speed applications. This acquisition strengthened our product portfolio, by adding Oclaro s indium phosphide laser and photonic integrated circuit and coherent component and module capabilities which broadened our revenue mix; and positions us strongly to meet the future needs of our customers. Industry Trends and Business Risks Our business is driven by end-market applications which benefit from the performance advantages of optical solutions. The OpComms markets we serve are experiencing continually increasing needs for higher data transmission speeds, fiber optic network capacity and network agility. This is driven by rapid growth in both the number of higher bandwidth broadband applications such as high-definition video, online gaming, cloud computing and the number and scale of datacenters that require fiber optic links to enable the higher speeds and increased scale necessary to deliver high bandwidth video and other services. Our technology, which was originally developed for communications applications is also finding use in other emerging market opportunities including 3D sensing applications that employ our laser technology in mobile devices, computers, augmented and virtual reality and other consumer electronics devices. Additionally, our products are used in emerging automotive, industrial, security, safety and surveillance applications. In the Lasers markets, customer demand is driven by the need to enable faster, higher precision volume manufacturing techniques with lower power consumption, more environmentally friendly, reduced manufacturing footprint and increased productivity. These capabilities are critical as industries develop products that are smaller and lighter, increasing productivity and yield and lowering their energy consumption. Our optical and laser solutions, developed in close collaboration with OEM partners, are well-positioned to meet demand resulting from these trends. We do, however, expect to continue to encounter a number of industry and market risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may limit our visibility, and consequently, our ability to predict future revenue, profitability and general financial performance, and could create quarter over quarter variability in our financial measures. For example, the demand environment in China has fluctuated significantly in recent years, and has created volatility and uncertainty in our future demand. We cannot predict when or to what extent these uncertainties will be resolved. Our revenues, profitability and general financial performance may also be affected by: (i) pricing pressures, particularly within our OpComms markets, due to, among other things, a highly concentrated customer base, increasing competition, particularly from Asia-Pacific-based competitors, and a general commoditization trend for certain products; (ii) high product mix variability which affects revenue and gross margin; (iii) fluctuations in customer buying patterns, which cause volatility in demand, revenue and profitability; (iv) the current trend of communication industry consolidation and vertical integration, which is expected to continue, that directly affects our customer base and adds additional risk and uncertainty to our financial and business projections; and (v) ongoing risks related to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. 3 Table of Contents Reportable Segments We have two operating segments, OpComms and Lasers. The two operating segments were primarily determined based on how our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ) views and evaluates our operations. Operating results are regularly reviewed by our CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and to assess their performance. Other factors, including market separation and customer specific applications, go-to-market channels, products and manufacturing, are considered in determining the formation of these operating segments. We do not track our property, plant, and equipment by operating segments. For the geographic identification of these assets and for further information regarding our operating segments, refer to Note 20. Operating Segments and Geographic Information . OpComms Markets Our OpComms products address the following markets: telecommunications ( Telecom ), data communications ( Datacom ) and consumer and industrial ( Consumer and Industrial ). Our OpComms products include a wide range of components, modules and subsystems to support customers including carrier networks for access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (city-to-city and worldwide) and submarine (undersea) applications. Additionally, our products address enterprise, cloud, and data center applications, including storage-access networks ( SANs ), local-area networks ( LANs ) and wide-area networks ( WANs ). These products enable the transmission and transport of video, audio and data over high-capacity fiber-optic cables. We maintain leading positions in these fast growing OpComms markets through our extensive product portfolio, including reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexers ( ROADMs ), coherent DWDM pluggable transceivers, and tunable small form-factor pluggable transceivers. We also sell laser chips for use in the manufacture of high-speed Datacom transceivers. In the Consumer and Industrial market, our OpComms products include laser light sources, which are integrated into 3D sensing platforms being used in applications for mobile devices, gaming, payment kiosks, computers, and other consumer electronics devices. New emerging applications include virtual and augmented reality, as well as automotive and industrial segments. Our products include vertical cavity surface emitting lasers ( VCSELs ) and edge emitting lasers which are used in 3D sensing depth imaging systems. These systems simplify the way people interact with technology by enabling the use of natural user interfaces. Systems are used for biometric identification, surveillance, and process efficiency, among numerous other application spaces. Emerging applications for this technology include various mobile device applications, autonomous vehicles, self-navigating robotics and drones in industrial applications and 3D capture of objects coupled with 3D printing. In addition, our industrial diode lasers are used primarily as pump sources for pulsed and kilowatt class fiber lasers. Following the acquisition of Oclaro, during our fiscal 2019, we made several strategic changes to our OpComms business to better position it for growth and profitability. These changes included attaining acquisition cost synergies related to redundant capabilities and divestiture of Telecom Lithium Niobate modulators and Datacom transceiver modules because of their muted growth and profitability trends. These changes were substantially completed in fiscal 2020. We expect our Indium Phosphide photonic integrated circuits will continue to replace Lithium Niobate modulators over time and focusing on the development and sale of Datacom chips has enabled us to participate in the growth of the Datacom and 5G wireless markets. Customers Our OpComms customers include Alphabet, Apple, Ciena, Cisco Systems (which announced the acquisition of Acacia Communications, another customer of ours), Huawei Technologies (including HiSilicon), Infinera, Innolight, Nokia Networks (including Alcatel-Lucent International), O-Net, and ZTE. During fiscal 2020 , 2019 , and 2018 , net revenue generated from a single customer which represented 10% or more of our total net revenue of the applicable fiscal year is summarized in the table below: Years Ended June 27, 2020 June 29, 2019 June 30, 2018 Apple 26.0 % 21.0 % 30.0 % Huawei 13.2 % 15.2 % 11.0 % Ciena * 13.7 % 11.0 % *Represents less than 10% of total net revenue 4 Table of Contents Trends We believe the optical communications market has started to expand beyond a small number of very large service providers, and is transitioning to a variety of open and captive networks created for in-house use by large video services, search engines and companies offering a variety of cloud computing services. We believe that the trend towards an increase in demand for optical solutions, which increase network capacity, is in response to growing bandwidth demand driven by increased transmission of video, voice and data over optical communications networks. Additionally, service providers also seek to decrease the total cost of ownership of their networks. To remain competitive, network operators worldwide must offer broader suites of digital services at competitive prices. To do this, they are migrating to Internet-protocol ( IP ) networks and expanding long-haul, metro regional and metro access networks, which effectively deliver broadband services, while lowering capital and operating costs of dense-wavelength-division multiplexing networks. The growing demand for capacity encourages the adoption of OpComms products across the Datacom and Telecom markets. Demand for capacity in the Datacom market is driven by the growing needs of LANs and WANs. Growth in Datacom is also driven by web and cloud services companies that are expanding data center infrastructure, increasing the need for network capacity within and between these data centers. Demand in the Telecom market is driven by new bandwidth-intensive applications that can result in sudden and severe changes in demand almost anywhere on the network. Increasing agility in optical networks by employing ROADMs, wavelength selective switches, wavelength tunable transmission products and other agile optical products provides an effective way to respond to unpredictable bandwidth demands and to manage expenses. With more agile optical networks, a network operator can add capacity by using remote management applications rather than dispatching technicians to perform manual operations in the field. In addition, the high-end routers, switches and cross-connect equipment that must handle legacy and internet-protocol traffic are becoming increasingly complex in order to meet higher bandwidth, scalability, speed and reliability needs. Products must provide higher levels of functionality and performance in compact designs that must also meet requirements for quality, reliability, and cost. We believe increasing speeds at the edge of the network, including the significant increase in speed in 5G mobile networks, combined with increasing demand for high bandwidth applications and services, including streaming video, will result in increasing demand for additional capacity in datacenter interconnect, metro regional and long-haul networks. The dynamically reconfigurable nature of today s networks enables lower operating costs and other competitive advantages, allowing communications service providers to use and scale network capacity more flexibly, streamline service provisioning, accelerate rerouting around points of failure and modify network topology through simple point-and-click network management systems. Our optical products are well-positioned to meet these demands. Our innovations, particularly in the area of photonic integration, have resulted in products that have more functionality, are significantly smaller in size, require less power, and are more cost-effective than our historical products. Higher levels of integration have also led to development of our Super Transport Blade, which delivers all transport functions (wavelength switching, pre-amplification, post-amplification, optical supervisory channel and monitoring) in a single, integrated platform, essentially replacing three blades with one. Offerings In addition to a full selection of active and passive components, we offer increasing levels of functionality and integration in modules, circuit packs and subsystems for transmission, amplification, wavelength management and more. In the Telecom market, we provide transmission and transport solutions for optical networks that make up the backbone of the wireline Telecom infrastructure, thereby enabling the internet, connections between cloud datacenters, and backhaul of data from wireless mobile networks. Transmission products, such as our tunable transponder, transceiver and transmitter modules, transmit and receive high-speed data signals at the ingress/egress points of networks. These products use dense wavelength division multiplexing technology to maximize the fiber transmission capacity while lowering the cost per bit to meet the needs of increasing internet and cloud demand. We also offer components including tunable lasers, receivers and modulators to address the higher end of these same network applications. Our transport products, such as ROADMs, amplifiers and optical channel monitors provide switching, routing and the conditioning of signals. We also make components for transport, including 980nm, multi-mode and Raman pumps for optical amplifiers, and passive components. Passive components include switches, attenuators, photodetectors, gain flattening filters, isolators, wavelength-division multiplexing ( WDM ) filters, arrayed waveguide gratings ( AWGs ), multiplex/de-multiplexers and integrated passive modules. 5 Table of Contents Our innovation led to the Super Transport Blade, which integrates all major optical transport functions into a single-slot blade. This all-in-one solution reduces the size, cost and power requirements of optical components, incorporates nano wavelength selective switch technology and enables greater chassis density and a smaller footprint. In the Datacom market, optical transceivers are used to connect servers, switches, routers and other information technology infrastructure critical for today s internet applications, web services, video streaming, enterprise networks and service provider solutions. The emerging data center and Web 2.0 markets are two of the fastest growing segments in optical communications, both in terms of capital network equipment investment and growth of high data rate optical transceivers. Additionally, the increased bandwidth needs for 5G wireless applications will drive growth in high speed optical modules. Historically, we have supplied optical transceivers, but we have shifted our strategy to supplying the underlying optical components, high-speed source lasers and receiver photo diodes used in optical transceivers to address these market segments. For the 100G and higher data rates, we offer several source laser technologies to balance technical and commercial requirements. For high volume, short distance applications we developed our VCSELs. VCSELs are ideal for short reach applications because they enable low power, low cost optical solutions that are highly scalable. For high-performance, longer distance applications we have our directly modulated laser ( DML ) and electro-absorption modulated laser ( EML ) dies supporting module applications with speeds from 10Gb/s through 800Gb/s. Our individual lasers and compact laser arrays offer an innovative solution for the LANs, SANs, broadband Internet, 5G Wireless and metro-area network as well as hyperscale datacenter applications. Our 3D sensing technology enables real time depth information to any photo or video image. This represents a fundamental transition for image capture akin to the transition from monochrome to color and gives devices the ability to see the world around them in three dimensions. The immediate applications include full body imaging for gaming, 3D scanning for space mapping and facial recognition for security. Emerging applications for this technology include various mobile device applications, autonomous vehicles, self-navigating robotics and drones in industrial applications and 3D capture of objects coupled with 3D printing. 3D sensing can be applied to any device with a camera. The technologies to achieve accurate and stable 3D sensing are converging to laser based solutions. We are a leading supplier of the critical laser illumination sources for 3D sensing systems being used in applications for gaming, computing, mobile devices, and home entertainment. Strategy In our OpComms segment, we are focused on technology leadership through innovation with our customers, cost leadership and functional integration. We endeavor to align the latest technologies with industry leading, scalable manufacturing and operations to drive the next phase of optical communications technologies and products for Telecom and Datacom applications that are faster, more agile and more reliable, making us a valuable business and technology partner for NEMs, consumer electronic companies, cloud service providers and data center operators. Competition We compete against various companies in the markets we serve, including II-VI, Acacia Communications, Accelink, ams AG, Broadcom Inc., Furukawa Electric, Mitsubishi Electric, Neophotonics, and Sumitomo Electric Industries, as well as, private companies and subsidiaries of public companies providing optical communications components such as Fujitsu Optical Components - a subsidiary of Fujitsu, Nistica - a subsidiary of Molex, and O-Net. Additionally, Cisco has announced its plan to acquire Acacia Communications. Lasers Markets Our Lasers products serve our customers in markets and applications such as sheet metal processing, general manufacturing, biotechnology, graphics and imaging, remote sensing, and precision machining such as drilling in printed circuit boards, wafer singulation, glass cutting and solar cell scribing. Our Lasers products are used in a variety of OEM applications including diode-pumped solid-state, fiber, diode, direct-diode and gas lasers such as argon-ion and helium-neon lasers. Fiber lasers provide kW-class output powers combined with excellent beam quality and are used in sheet metal processing and metal welding applications. Diode-pumped solid-state lasers provide excellent beam quality, low noise and exceptional reliability and are used in biotechnology, graphics and imaging, remote sensing, materials processing and precision machining applications. Diode and direct-diode lasers address a wide variety of applications, including laser pumping, thermal exposure, illumination, ophthalmology, image recording, printing, plastic welding and selective soldering. Gas lasers such as argon-ion and helium-neon lasers provide a stable, low-cost and reliable solution over a wide range of operating conditions, making them well-suited for complex, high-resolution OEM applications such as flow cytometry, DNA sequencing, graphics and imaging and semiconductor inspection. 6 Table of Contents We also provide high-powered and ultrafast lasers for the industrial and scientific markets. Manufacturers use high-power, ultrafast lasers to create micro parts for consumer electronics and to process semiconductor, LED, and other types of chips. Use of ultrafast lasers for micromachining applications is being driven primarily by the increasing use of consumer electronics and connected devices globally. Our portfolio of Lasers products includes components and subsystems used in a variety of OEM applications that range in output power from milliwatts to kilowatts and include ultraviolet, visible and infrared wavelengths. We support customer applications in the biotechnology, graphics and imaging, remote sensing, materials processing and other precision machining areas. Customers Our Lasers customers include Amada, ASML Holding, Beckman Coulter, DISCO, Electro Scientific Industries (recently acquired by MKS Instruments, a competitor of ours), Han s Laser Technology, KLA-Tencor, Lasertec, Life Technologies, and NR Electric. During fiscal 2020 , 2019 , and 2018 , we did not have any single customer attributable to our Lasers segment that generated net revenue of 10% or more of our total net revenue for the applicable fiscal year. Trends As technology advances, industries such as consumer electronics manufacturing increasingly turn to lasers when they need more precision, higher productivity and energy efficient, or green, alternatives for problems that cannot be solved by mechanical, electronic or other means. For example, these industries are using lasers to develop products that are smaller and lighter to increase productivity and yield and to lower their energy consumption. Lasers have been used for years to help achieve the scale and precision needed in semiconductor processing. In biotech applications, lasers have been instrumental for advances (and new standard procedures) in cytology, hematology, genome sequencing and crime scene investigations, among others. We believe the long-term trends in these industries will likely lead to increased demand for lasers. Sheet metal processing and metal welding applications are incr