ITEM 1. BUSINESS 2 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 40 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 41 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 41 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 41 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 42 ITEM 6 . RESERVED 43 ITEM 7 . MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 44 ITEM 7 A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 64 ITEM 8 . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 66 ITEM 9 . CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 122 ITEM 9 A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 122 ITEM 9 B. OTHER INFORMATION 124 ITEM 9 C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 124 PART III ITEM 10 . DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 125 ITEM 1 1 . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 125 ITEM 1 2 . SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 125 ITEM 1 3 . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 125 ITEM 1 4 . PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 125 PART IV ITEM 1 5 . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES 126 ITEM 1 6 . FORM 10-K SUMMARY 130 SIGNATURES 131 1 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act ). These statements relate to, among other things, our markets and industry, products and strategy, the impact of export regulation changes, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related responses of business and governments to the pandemic on our business and results of operations, sales, gross margins, operating expenses, capital expenditures and requirements, liquidity, product development and R D efforts, manufacturing plans, litigation, effective tax rates and tax reserves, our corporate and financial reporting structure, our plans for growth and innovation, our expectations regarding U.S.-China relations, market and regulatory conditions, trends and uncertainties in our business and financial results, and our merger with NeoPhotonics and the successful integration of NeoPhotonics s business (including personnel), and are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, contemplate, believe, predict, potential and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included under Part I, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Overview Lumentum Holdings Inc. ( we, us, our , Lumentum or the Company ) is an industry-leading provider of optical and photonic products defined by revenue and market share addressing a range of end-market applications including Optical Communications ( OpComms ) and Commercial Lasers ( Lasers ) for manufacturing, inspection and life-science applications. We seek to use our core optical and photonic technology, and our volume manufacturing capability, to expand into attractive emerging markets that benefit from advantages that optical or photonics-based solutions provide, including 3D sensing for consumer electronics and diode light sources for a variety of automotive, consumer and industrial applications. The majority of our customers tend to be original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) that incorporate our products into their products which then address end-market applications. For example, we sell fiber optic components that network equipment manufacturers ( NEMs ) assemble into communications networking systems, which they sell to communication service providers, hyperscale cloud operators and enterprises with their own networks. Similarly, many of our customers for our Lasers products incorporate our products into tools they produce, which are used for manufacturing processes by their customers. For 3D sensing, we sell diode lasers to manufacturers of consumer electronics products for mobile, personal computing, gaming, and other applications, including to the automotive industry, who then integrate our devices within their products, for eventual resale to consumers and also into other industrial applications. 2 Table of Contents We believe the global markets in which Lumentum participates have fundamentally robust, long-term trends that increase the need for our photonics products and technologies. W e believe the world is becoming more reliant on ever-increasing amounts of data flowing through optical networks and data centers. Lumentum s products and technology enable the scaling of these optical networks and data centers to higher capacities. We expect the accelerating shift to digital and virtual approaches to all aspects of work and life that is driving staggering amounts of data in the world s networks and cloud datacenters will continue into the future. Virtual meetings, video calls, and hybrid in-person and virtual environments for work and other aspects of life will continue to drive strong needs for bandwidth growth and present dynamic new challenges that our technology addresses. As manufacturers demand higher levels of precision, new materials, and factory and energy efficiency, suppliers of manufacturing tools globally are turning to laser-based approaches, including the types of lasers Lumentum supplies. Laser-based 3D sensing and LiDAR for security, industrial and automotive applications are rapidly developing markets. The technology enables computer vision applications that enhance security, safety, and new functionality in the electronic devices that people rely on every day. The use of LiDAR and in-cabin 3D sensing in automobile and delivery vehicles over time significantly adds to our long-term market opportunity. Frictionless and contactless biometric security and access control is of increasing focus globally given the world s experience with the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we expect 3D-enabled machine vision solutions to expand significantly in industrial applications in the coming years. We operate in two reportable segments: OpComms and Lasers. We have a global marketing and sales footprint that enables us to address global market opportunities for our products. We have manufacturing capabilities and facilities in North America, South America, Asia-Pacific, and Europe, with employees engaged in research and development ( R D ), administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. Our headquarters are located in San Jose, California, and we employed approximat ely 6,815 full -time employees around the world as of July 2, 2022. Lumentum was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of JDS Uniphase Corporation ( JDSU ) on February 10, 2015. In August 2015, we were spun-off from JDSU and became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution of our common stock by JDSU to its stockholders (the Separation ). In 2015, JDSU was renamed Viavi Solutions Inc. ( Viavi ). Our business traces its origins to Uniphase Corporation, which was formed in 1979 and became publicly traded in 1992. Uniphase was originally a supplier of commercial lasers, and later, a leading supplier of optical transmission products. In 1999, JDS Fitel Inc., a pioneer in products for fiber optic networking which was formed in 1981, merged with Uniphase to become JDSU, a global leader in optical networking. Subsequent acquisitions by JDSU broadened the depth and breadth of the OpComms and Lasers businesses, as well as the intellectual property, technology and product offerings, of what is now Lumentum. Notable amongst these acquisitions in the OpComms business were Agility Communications, Inc. in 2005 and Picolight, Inc. in 2007, which respectively brought widely tunable, long wavelength laser technology for metro and long haul networking applications and short wavelength vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers ( VCSELs ) for enterprise, datacenter networking, and 3D sensing applications. The fundamental laser component technologies, which we acquired through these acquisitions, form the basis of optical networks today, and we believe will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. These technologies will enable us to develop highly integrated products to satisfy our communications customers ever-increasing needs for smaller, lower power and lower cost optical products. Notable acquisitions in the Lasers business were Lightwave Electronics Corporation in 2005 and Time-Bandwidth Products Inc. ( Time-Bandwidth ) in 2014. Both of these Lasers acquisitions brought high power pulsed solid-state laser products and technology to our business, which address the micro machining laser market and expanded our addressable market. In December 2018, we completed the acquisition of Oclaro, Inc. ( Oclaro ), a provider of optical components and modules for the long-haul, metro and data center markets. Oclaro s products provide differentiated solutions for optical networks and high-speed interconnects driving the next wave of streaming video, cloud computing, application virtualization and other bandwidth-intensive and high-speed applications. This acquisition strengthened our product portfolio, by adding Oclaro s indium phosphide laser and photonic integrated circuit and coherent component and module capabilities which broadened our revenue mix and positions us strongly to meet the future needs of our customers. On August 3, 2022, we completed our merger ( the Merger ) with NeoPhotonics Corporation ( NeoPhotonics ), which we expect to expand our opportunities in the market for optical components used in cloud and telecom network infrastructure. Internet, cloud, mobile, and broadband access network capacity requirements continue to grow at an unrelenting pace driven by the digital transformation of work and life, high-bandwidth video, gaming, and other applications. After the Merger, Lumentum has a broader portfolio of next generation products and technologies positioned to address the market opportunity created by this strong growth in network capacity requirements, including NeoPhotonics ultra-pure light tunable lasers and photonics technologies for speed over distance applications. 3 Table of Contents On August 15, 2022, we completed a transaction to acquire a business that develops and markets products for use in telecommunications and datacenter infrastructure, including Digital Signal Processors (DSP s), ASICs and optical transceivers. This acquisition will enable us to expand our business in our OpComms segment. Industry Trends and Business Risks Our business is driven by end-market applications which benefit from the performance advantages of optical and photonics solutions. The OpComms markets we serve are experiencing continually increasing needs for higher data transmission speeds, fiber optic network capacity and network agility. This is driven by rapid growth in both the number of higher bandwidth broadband applications such as high-definition video, online gaming, cloud computing and the number and scale of datacenters that require fiber optic links to enable the higher speeds and increased scale necessary to deliver high bandwidth video and other services. Our technology, which was originally developed for communications applications, is also finding use in other emerging market opportunities including 3D sensing applications that employ our laser technology in mobile devices, computers, augmented and virtual reality and other consumer electronics devices. Additionally, our products have been and are continuing to be designed into emerging automotive, industrial, security, safety and surveillance applications. In the Lasers markets, customer demand is driven by the need to enable faster, higher precision volume manufacturing techniques with lower power consumption, more environmentally friendly, reduced manufacturing footprint and increased productivity. These capabilities are critical as industries develop products that are smaller and lighter, increasing productivity and yield and lowering their energy consumption. Our optical and laser solutions, developed in close collaboration with OEM partners, are well-positioned to meet demand resulting from these trends. We do, however, expect to continue to encounter a number of industry and market risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may limit our visibility, and consequently, our ability to predict future revenue, profitability and general financial performance and could create quarter over quarter variability in our financial measures. For example, the demand environment coupled with changing export regulations with China have fluctuated significantly in recent years and has created volatility and uncertainty in our future demand. Impact of COVID-19 to Our Business Since February 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused public health officials to recommend, and governments to enact, precautions to mitigate the spread of the virus, including travel restrictions and bans, extensive social distancing guidelines, closure or restrictions on business and quarantine or other types of shelter-in-place orders in many regions of the world. The pandemic and these related responses continue to cause a global slowdown of economic activity (including a decrease in demand for a broad variety of goods and services), disruptions in global supply chains, labor shortages, and significant volatility and potential disruption of financial markets. The ultimate extent to which COVID-19 will impact our business depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and very difficult to predict, including the effectiveness and utilization of vaccines for COVID-19 and its variants, the severity of COVID-19 and its variants, and the effectiveness of the actions to contain or limit their spread. From the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, we proactively implemented preventative measures and protocols, which we continuously assess and update for changes in conditions and emerging trends. Some of these measures have included complying with local, state or federal orders that require employees to work from home, instructing employees to work from home in certain jurisdictions, limiting the number of employees onsite which slowed our manufacturing operations in certain countries, enhancing use of personal protective equipment and restricting non-critical business travel by our employees, enacting vaccine and testing mandates in certain jurisdictions, and implementing health and safety enhancements. These measures are intended to safeguard our team members, contractors, suppliers, customers, distributors, and communities, and to ensure business continuity. Currently, our major production facilities in Europe, Asia, and the United States remain open. At most of our locations, we have transitioned from business continuity plans to return-to-office plans while continuing to maintain high standards of employee safety and sanitization protocols. 4 Table of Contents In the geographies where we have operations, we have, in general and where applicable, been deemed an essential business and been permitted to continue manufacturing and conducting new product development operations in a more limited capacity during the pandemic. This stems from our critical role in global supply chains for the world s communications and health-care systems. However, the pandemic continues to affect our suppliers and manufacturers who are experiencing component materials and labor shortages. Given the continually evolving situation, particularly in light of the recent Delta and Omicron variants, it is difficult to predict the magnitude and duration of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to our markets, its effects, or precisely when our ability to supply our products will return to full capacity. We are continuing to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions altering our business operations that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, communities, business partners, suppliers and stockholders, or as required by federal, state, or local authorities. It is not clear what the potential effects any such alterations or modifications may have on our business, including the effects on our customers, employees and prospects, or on our financial results for the future. Our primary strategic focus for several years has been technology and product leadership combined with close customer relationships in long-term healthy and growing markets. We believe this strategy is even more apt, and our long-term opportunity is not diminished, with COVID-19. We believe there are long-term opportunities, as the world s experience with COVID-19 could drive an increasingly digital and virtual world, touching all aspects of life and work, that increasingly emphasizes the importance of communications systems, cloud services, augmented and virtual reality, and enhanced security. Additionally, ever advancing electronic devices are needed to consume, produce, and communicate digital and virtual content. All these trends could drive the need for higher volumes of higher performing optical devices that we could supply. As such, we expect to continue to invest strongly in new products, technology and customer programs. For more information on risks associated with the COVID-19 outbreak and regulatory actions, please refer to the section titled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Supply Chain Constraints Our business and our customers businesses have been negatively impacted by worldwide logistics and supply chain issues, including constraints on available cargo capabilities and limited availability of once broadly available supplies of both raw materials and finished components. COVID-19 has also created dynamics in the semiconductor component supply chains that have led to shortages of the types of components we and our customers require in our products. These shortages have impacted our ability to meet demand and generate revenue from certain products in fiscal 2022 and, they continue to impact our ability to meet demand today. If our ability to procure needed semiconductor components does not improve, this will impact our ability to supply our products to our customers and may reduce our revenue and profit margin. In addition, if our customers are unable to procure needed semiconductor components, this could reduce their demand for our products and reduce our revenue. The impact of semiconductor component shortages may continue in the near term as supplier and customer buffer inventories and safety stocks are exhausted. Due to the global supply chain constraint, we have had to incur incremental supply and procurement costs in order to increase our ability to fulfill demands from our customers. These costs have increased our inventory balances as of July 2, 2022 and may decrease our gross margin in the near term. We expect component supply to be a challenge at least into the second half of fiscal 2023. For more information on risks associated with supply chain constraints, please refer to the section titled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Reportable Segments We have two operating segments, OpComms and Lasers. The two operating segments were primarily determined based on how our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ) views and evaluates our operations. Operating results are regularly reviewed by our CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and to assess their performance. Other factors, including market separation and customer specific applications, go-to-market channels, products and manufacturing, are considered in determining the formation of these operating segments. We do not track our property, plant, and equipment by operating segments. For the geographic identification of these assets and for further information regarding our operating segments, please refer to Note 19. Operating Segments and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements. OpComms Markets Our OpComms products address the following markets: telecommunications ( Telecom ), data communications ( Datacom ) and consumer and industrial ( Consumer and Industrial ). 5 Table of Contents Our OpComms products include a wide range of components, modules and subsystems to support customers including carrier networks for access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (city-to-city and worldwide) and submarine (undersea) applications. Additionally, our products address enterprise, cloud, and data center applications, including storage-access networks ( SANs ), local-area networks ( LANs ) and wide-area networks ( WANs ). These products enable the transmission and transport of video, audio and data over high-capacity fiber-optic cables. We maintain leading positions in these fast growing OpComms markets through our extensive product portfolio, including reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexers ( ROADMs ), coherent dense wavelength division multiplexing ( DWDM ) pluggable transceivers, and tunable small form-factor pluggable transceivers. We also sell laser chips for use in manufacturing of high-speed Datacom transceivers. In the Consumer and Industrial market, our OpComms diode laser products include vertical cavity surface emitting lasers ( VCSELs ) and edge emitting lasers. In the Consumer end-market, our laser light sources are integrated into 3D sensing cameras which are used in applications in mobile devices, gaming, payment kiosks, computers, and other consumer electronics devices. Applications include biometric identification, computational photography, virtual and augmented reality, and natural user interfaces. Emerging applications for our lasers include automotive safety systems, LiDAR for advanced driver assistance systems in automobiles and autonomous vehicles, self-navigating robotics and drones in industrial applications, and 3D capture of objects coupled with 3D imaging or printing. In the industrial end-market, our diode lasers are used primarily as pump sources for pulsed and kilowatt class fiber lasers. Customers Our OpComms customers include Accelink, Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Ciena, Cisco Systems (including Acacia Communications, which was acquired by Cisco), Comcast, Infinera, Nokia Networks (including Alcatel-Lucent International), and ZTE. During fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020, net revenue generated from a single customer which represented 10% or more of our total net revenue of the applicable fiscal year is summarized in the table below: Years Ended July 2, 2022 July 3, 2021 June 27, 2020 Apple 28.7 % 30.2 % 26.0 % Ciena 12.6 % 10.1 % * Huawei * 10.8 % 13.2 % *Represents less than 10% of total net revenue. Trends We believe the optical communications market has started to expand beyond a small number of very large service providers, and is transitioning to a variety of open and captive networks created for in-house use by large video services, search engines and companies offering a variety of cloud computing services. We believe that the trend towards an increase in demand for optical solutions, which increase network capacity, is in response to growing bandwidth demand driven by increased transmission of video, voice and data over optical communications networks. Additionally, service providers also seek to decrease the total cost of ownership of their networks. To remain competitive, network operators worldwide must offer broader suites of digital services at competitive prices. To do this, they are migrating to Internet-protocol ( IP ) networks and expanding long-haul, metro regional and metro access networks, which effectively deliver broadband services, while lowering capital and operating costs of dense-wavelength-division multiplexing networks. The growing demand for capacity encourages the adoption of OpComms products across the Datacom and Telecom markets. Demand for capacity in the Datacom market is driven by the growing needs of LANs and WANs. Growth in Datacom is also driven by web and cloud services companies that are expanding data center infrastructure, increasing the need for network capacity within and between these data centers. Demand in the Telecom market is driven by new and existing bandwidth-intensive applications that can result in sudden and severe changes in demand almost anywhere on the network. Increasing agility in optical networks by employing ROADMs, wavelength selective switches, wavelength tunable transmission products and other agile optical products provides an effective way to respond to unpredictable bandwidth demands and to manage expenses. With more agile optical networks, a network operator can add capacity by using remote management applications rather than dispatching technicians to perform manual operations in the field. In addition, the high-end routers, switches and cross-connect equipment that must handle legacy and internet-protocol traffic are becoming increasingly complex in order to meet higher bandwidth, scalability, speed and reliability needs. Products 6 Table of Contents must provide higher levels of functionality and performance in compact designs that must also meet requirements for quality, reliability, and cost. We believe increasing speeds at the edge of the network, including the significant increase in speed in 5G mobile networks, combined with increasing demand for high bandwidth applications and services, including streaming video, will result in increasing demand for additional capacity in datacenter interconnect, metro regional and long-haul networks. The dynamically reconfigurable nature of today s networks enables lower operating costs and other competitive advantages, allowing communications service providers to use and scale network capacity more flexibly, streamline service provisioning, accelerate rerouting around points of failure and modify network topology through simple point-and-click network management systems. Our optical products are well-positioned to meet these demands. Our innovations, particularly in the area of photonic integration, have resulted in products that have more functionality, are significantly smaller in size, require less power, and are more cost-effective than our historical products. Higher levels of integration have also led to development of our Super Transport Blade, which delivers all transport functions (wavelength switching, pre-amplification, post-amplification, optical supervisory channel and monitoring) in a single, integrated platform, essentially replacing three blades with one. Offerings In addition to a full selection of active and passive components, we offer increasing levels of functionality and integration in modules, circuit packs and subsystems for transmission, amplification, wavelength management and more. In the Telecom market, we provide transmission and transport solutions for optical networks that make up the backbone of the wireline Telecom infrastructure, thereby enabling the internet, connections between cloud datacenters, and backhaul of data from wireless mobile networks. Transmission products, such as our tunable transponder, transceiver and transmitter modules, transmit and receive high-speed data signals at the ingress/egress points of networks. These products use dense wavelength division multiplexing ( DWDM ) technology to maximize the fiber transmission capacity while lowering the cost per bit to meet the needs of increasing internet and cloud demand. We also offer components including tunable lasers, receivers and modulators to address the higher end of these same network applications. Our transport products, such as ROADMs, amplifiers and optical channel monitors provide switching, routing and the conditioning of optical signals. We also make components for transport, including 980nm, multi-mode and Raman pumps for optical amplifiers, and passive components. Passive components include switches, attenuators, photodetectors, gain flattening filters, isolators, wavelength-division multiplexing ( WDM ) filters, arrayed waveguide gratings ( AWGs ), multiplex/de-multiplexers and integrated passive modules. Our innovation led to the Super Transport Blade, which integrates all major optical transport functions into a single-slot blade. This all-in-one solution reduces the size, cost and power requirements of optical components, incorporates nano wavelength selective switch technology and enables greater chassis density and a smaller footprint. In the Datacom market, optical transceivers are used to connect servers, switches, routers and other information technology infrastructure critical for today s internet applications, web services, video streaming, enterprise networks and service provider solutions. The cloud data center market is one of the fastest growing segments in optical communications both in terms of network eq