Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 109 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 110 Item 11. Executive Compensation 110 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 111 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 111 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 111 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 112 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 113 2 Forward-Looking Statements T his Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts, and can generally be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, intend, anticipate, plan, continue, or similar expressions. In particular, information appearing under Business, Risk Factors, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition includes forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements inherently involve many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, it is based on management's current plans and expectations, expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, we can give no assurance that any such expectation or belief will result or will be achieved or accomplished. The following include some but not all of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: uncertainties in the pharmaceutical research and development process, including with respect to the timing of anticipated regulatory approvals and launches of new products; market uptake of recently launched products; competitive developments affecting current products and our pipeline; the expiration of intellectual property protection for certain of our products; our ability to protect and enforce patents and other intellectual property; the impact of actions of governmental and private payers affecting pricing of, reimbursement for, and access to pharmaceuticals; regulatory compliance problems or government investigations; regulatory actions regarding currently marketed products; unexpected safety or efficacy concerns associated with our products; issues with product supply stemming from manufacturing difficulties or disruptions; regulatory changes or other developments; changes in patent law or regulations related to data-package exclusivity; litigation, investigations, or other similar proceedings involving past, current, or future products or commercial activities as we are largely self-insured; unauthorized disclosure, misappropriation, or compromise of trade secrets or other confidential data stored in our information systems, networks, and facilities, or those of third parties with whom we share our data; changes in tax law, including the impact of United States tax reform legislation enacted in December 2017 and related guidance, or events that differ from our assumptions related to tax positions; changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and inflation; asset impairments and restructuring charges; changes in accounting and reporting standards promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission; acquisitions and business development transactions and related integration costs; information technology system inadequacies or operating failures; reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements; and the impact of global macroeconomic conditions. Investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. You should carefully read the factors described in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain risks that could, among other things, cause our actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements. 3 All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. Except as is required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report. 4 Part I Item 1. Business Eli Lilly and Company (the company or registrant or "Lilly") was incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly. We discover, develop, manufacture, and market products in a single business segment human pharmaceutical products. Our purpose is to unite caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. Most of the products we sell today were discovered or developed by our own scientists, and our success depends to a great extent on our ability to continue to discover or acquire, develop, and bring to market innovative new medicines. In September 2018 Elanco Animal Health Incorporated (Elanco), an animal health business previously wholly owned by the company, completed an initial public offering of its common stock, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange, and in March 2019, we completed the disposition of our remaining ownership of Elanco common stock. For more information on the exchange offer, see Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Executive Overview . We manufacture and distribute our products through facilities in the United States (U.S.), Puerto Rico, and 8 other countries. Our products are sold in approximately 120 countries. Products Our products include: Diabetes and other endocrinology products , including: Baqsimi (glucagon), a nasal powder formulation for the treatment of severe hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes (approved in the U.S. and Europe in 2019) Basaglar (insulin glargine injection), a long-acting human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes (launched in Japan and Europe under the trade name Abasaglar ) Forteo , for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture and for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women Humalog , Humalog Mix 75/25, Humalog U-100, Humalog U-200, Humalog Mix 50/50 , and insulin lispro, insulin analogs for the treatment of diabetes Humatrope , for the treatment of human growth hormone deficiency and certain pediatric growth conditions Humulin , Humulin 70/30, Humulin N, Humulin R, and Humulin U-500, human insulins of recombinant DNA origin for the treatment of diabetes Jardiance , for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease Trajenta , for the treatment of type 2 diabetes Trulicity , for the treatment of type 2 diabetes Immunology products , including: Olumiant , for the treatment of adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis (approved in Europe and Japan in 2017, and in the U.S. in 2018) Taltz , for the treatment of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, active psoriatic arthritis (approved in the U.S. in 2017, and in Europe in 2018), and ankylosing spondylitis (approved in the U.S. in 2019) Neuroscience products , including: Cymbalta , for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, fibromyalgia, and chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic low back pain or chronic pain due to osteoarthritis 5 Emgality , a once-monthly subcutaneously injected calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antibody for migraine prevention (approved in the U.S. and Europe in 2018) and the treatment of episodic cluster headache (approved in the U.S. in 2019) Reyvow , an oral medicine for the acute treatment of migraine (launched in the U.S. in 2020) Strattera , for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder Zyprexa , for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, and bipolar maintenance Oncology products , including: Alimta , for the first-line treatment, in combination with another agent, of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for patients with non-squamous cell histology; for the second-line treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC; as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC in patients whose disease has not progressed immediately following chemotherapy treatment; and in combination with another agent, for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma Cyramza , for use as a single agent or in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric cancer or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic NSCLC; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer; as a single agent as a second-line treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (approved in the U.S. in 2019); and in combination with another agent as a first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC with activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations (approved in Europe in 2020) Erbitux , indicated both as a single agent and in combination with another chemotherapy agent for the treatment of certain types of colorectal cancers; and as a single agent, in combination with chemotherapy, or in combination with radiation therapy for the treatment of certain types of head and neck cancers Verzenio , for use as a single agent and in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of a certain type of metastatic breast cancer (approved in the U.S. in 2017 and in Europe and Japan in 2018) Other products , including: Cialis , for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and benign prostatic hyperplasia Marketing We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local customer needs. U.S. In the U.S., most of our products are distributed through wholesalers that serve pharmacies, physicians and other health care professionals, and hospitals. In 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , three wholesale distributors in the U.S. - McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and Cardinal Health, Inc. - each accounted for between 14 percent and 21 percent of our consolidated total revenue. No other distributor accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated total revenue in any of those years. We promote our major products in the U.S. through sales representatives who call upon physicians and other health care professionals. We also promote to healthcare providers in medical journals and on-line health care channels, distribute literature and samples of certain products to physicians, and exhibit at medical meetings. In addition, we advertise certain products directly to consumers in the U.S., and we maintain websites with information about our major products. We supplement our employee sales force with contract sales organizations to leverage our own resources. We maintain special business groups to service wholesalers, pharmacy benefit managers, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations, government and long-term care institutions, hospitals, and certain retail pharmacies. We enter into arrangements with these organizations providing for discounts or rebates on our products. 6 Outside the U.S. Outside the U.S., we promote our products to healthcare providers primarily through sales representatives and on-line health care channels. While the products marketed vary from country to country, diabetes and other endocrinology products constitute the largest single group in consolidated revenue. Distribution patterns vary from country to country. In most countries in which we operate, we maintain our own sales organizations, but in some smaller countries we market our products through independent distributors. Marketing Collaborations Certain of our products are marketed in arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies, including the following: We and Boehringer Ingelheim have a global agreement to develop and commercialize a portfolio of diabetes products, including Trajenta, Jentadueto , Jardiance, Glyxambi , Synjardy , Trijardy XR, and Basaglar. For additional information, see Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4, Collaborations and Other Arrangements." Competition Our products compete globally with products of many other companies in highly competitive markets. Important competitive factors include effectiveness, safety, and ease of use; price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; and research and development of new products, processes, and uses. Most new products that we introduce must compete with other branded or generic products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. If competitors introduce new products or delivery systems with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to decreased sales, progressive price reductions, or both. We believe our long-term competitive success depends upon discovering and developing (either alone or in collaboration with others) or acquiring innovative, cost-effective products that provide improved outcomes and deliver value to payers, and continuously improving the productivity of our operations in a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that our efforts will result in commercially successful products, and it is possible that our products will be, or become, uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products developed by our competitors. Generic Pharmaceuticals One of the biggest competitive challenges we face is from generic pharmaceuticals. In the U.S. and Europe, the regulatory approval process for pharmaceuticals (other than biological products (biologics)) exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. Therefore, generic manufacturers generally invest far less than we do in research and development and can price their products much lower than our branded products. Accordingly, when a branded non-biologic pharmaceutical loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Public and private payers typically encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. Where substitution is mandatory, it must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In many countries outside the U.S., intellectual property protection is weak, and we must compete with generic or counterfeit versions of our products. Biosimilars Several of our current products, including Cyramza, Emgality, Erbitux, Taltz, and Trulicity and many of the new molecular entities (NMEs) in our research pipeline are biologics. Competition for Lilly s biologics may be affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilars. A biosimilar is a subsequent version of an approved innovator biologic that, due to its functional and structural similarity to the innovator biologic, is approved based on an abbreviated data package that relies in part on the full testing required of the innovator biologic. Globally, most governments have developed regulatory pathways to approve biosimilars as alternatives to innovator-developed biologics, but the patent and regulatory exclusivity for the existing innovator biologic must expire in a given market before biosimilars may enter that market. The extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for the innovator biologic in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for 7 non-biologic products, is not yet entirely clear, and will depend on a number of regulatory and marketplace factors that are still developing. Biosimilars may present both competitive challenges and opportunities. For example, a competitor company has developed a version of insulin lispro which competes with our product Humalog. On the other hand, with our partner Boehringer Ingelheim, we developed Basaglar, a new insulin glargine product, which has the same amino acid sequence as a product currently marketed by a competitor and has launched as a follow-on biologic in the U.S., and as a biosimilar in Europe and Japan. In March 2020, the U.S. regulatory status of all of our insulin products will transition to become regulated as biologics rather than drugs. Based on recent U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) draft guidance, this change may lower the requirements for competitor biosimilar products to enter the market, some of which could be designated as interchangeable and therefore substituted for our insulin products at U.S. pharmacies. U.S. Private Sector Dynamics In the U.S. private sector, consolidation and integration among healthcare providers is also a major factor in the competitive marketplace for pharmaceuticals. Health plans and pharmacy benefit managers have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. For example, in 2018 CVS Health, a large pharmacy benefit manager and pharmacy chain, acquired Aetna, a large national insurer, and Cigna Corporation acquired Express Scripts in a similar transaction. More recently, in December 2019, Express Scripts signed a three-year partnership agreement with another pharmacy benefit manager, Prime Therapeutics. Payers typically maintain formularies which specify coverage (the conditions under which drugs are included on a plan's formulary) and reimbursement (the associated out-of-pocket cost to the consumer). Formulary placement can lead to reduced usage of a drug for the relevant patient population due to coverage restrictions, such as prior authorizations and formulary exclusions, or due to reimbursement limitations which result in higher consumer out-of-pocket cost, such as non-preferred co-pay tiers, increased co-insurance levels, and higher deductibles. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete for formulary placement not only on the basis of product attributes such as efficacy, safety profile, or patient ease of use, but also by providing rebates. Value-based agreements, where pricing is based on achievement, or not, of specified outcomes, are another tool which may be utilized between payers and pharmaceutical companies as formulary placement and pricing are negotiated. Price is an increasingly important factor in formulary decisions, particularly in treatment areas in which the payer has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. These downward pricing pressures are expected to continue to negatively affect our future consolidated results of operations. Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights Overview Intellectual property protection is critical to our ability to successfully commercialize our life sciences innovations and invest in the search for new medicines. We own, have applied for, or are licensed under, a large number of patents in the U.S. and many other countries relating to products, product uses, formulations, and manufacturing processes. In addition, as discussed below, for some products we have effective intellectual property protection in the form of data protection under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. The patent protection anticipated to be of most relevance to pharmaceuticals is provided by national patents claiming the active ingredient (the compound patent), particularly those in major markets such as the U.S., various European countries, and Japan. These patents may be issued based upon the filing of international patent applications, usually filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). Patent applications covering compounds are generally filed during the Discovery Phase of the drug discovery process, which is described in the Research and Development section below. In general, national patents in each relevant country are available for a period of 20 years from the filing date of the PCT application, which is often years prior to the launch of a commercial product. Further patent term adjustments and restorations may extend the original patent term: Patent term adjustment is a statutory right available to all U.S. patent applicants to provide relief in the event that a patent grant is delayed during examination by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Patent term restoration is a statutory right provided to U.S. patent holders that claim inventions subject to review by the FDA. To make up for a portion of the time invested in clinical trials and the FDA review 8 process, a single patent for a pharmaceutical product may be eligible for patent term restoration. Patent term restoration is limited by a formula and cannot be calculated until product approval due to uncertainty about the duration of clinical trials and the time it takes the FDA to review an application. There is a five-year cap on any restoration, and no patent's expiration date may be extended beyond 14 years from FDA approval. Some countries outside the U.S. also offer forms of patent term restoration. For example, Supplementary Protection Certificates are available to extend the life of a European patent up to an additional five years (subject to a 15-year cap from European Medicines Agency (EMA) approval). Similarly, in Japan, South Korea, and Australia, patent terms can be extended up to five years, depending on the length of regulatory review and other factors. Loss of effective patent protection for pharmaceuticals, especially for non-biologic products, typically results in the loss of effective market exclusivity for the product, which often results in severe and rapid decline in revenues for the product. However, in some cases the innovator company may be protected from approval of generic, biosimilar, or other follow-on versions of a new medicine beyond the expiration of the compound patent through manufacturing trade secrets, later-expiring patents on manufacturing processes, methods of use or formulations, or data protection that may be available under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. Changes to the laws and regulations governing these protections could result in earlier loss of effective market exclusivity. The primary forms of data protection are as follows: Regulatory authorities in major markets generally grant data package protection for a period of years following new drug approvals in recognition of the substantial investment required to complete clinical trials. Data package protection prohibits other manufacturers from submitting regulatory applications for marketing approval based on the innovator company s regulatory submission data for the drug. The base period of data package protection depends on the country. For example, the period is generally five years in the U.S. (12 years for new biologics as described below), effectively 10 years in Europe, and eight years in Japan. The period begins on the date of product approval and runs concurrently with the patent term for any relevant patent. Under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (the BPCI Act), the FDA has the authority to approve biosimilars. A competitor seeking approval of a biosimilar must file an application to show its molecule is highly similar to an approved innovator biologic and include a certain amount of safety and efficacy data that the FDA will consider on a case-by-case basis. Under the data protection provisions of this law, the FDA cannot approve a biosimilar application until 12 years after initial marketing approval of the innovator biologic, subject to certain conditions. The BPCI Act is part of the Affordable Care Act, the constitutionality of which is currently being litigated. In the U.S., the FDA has the authority to grant additional data protection for approved drugs where the sponsor conducts specified testing in pediatric or adolescent populations within a specified time period. If granted, this pediatric exclusivity provides an additional six months of exclusivity, which is added to the term of data protection as well as to the term of any relevant patents, to the extent these protections have not already expired. While the term of the pediatric exclusivity attaches to the term of any relevant patent, pediatric exclusivity is a regulatory exclusivity, a bar to generic approval, not a patent right. Under the U.S. orphan drug law, a specific use of a drug or biologic can receive "orphan" designation if it is intended to treat a disease or condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S., or affecting more than 200,000 people but not reasonably expected to recover its development and marketing costs through U.S. sales. Among other benefits, orphan designation entitles the particular use of the drug to seven years of market exclusivity, meaning that the FDA cannot (with limited exceptions) approve another marketing application for the same drug for the same indication until expiration of the seven-year period. Unlike pediatric exclusivity, the orphan exclusivity period is independent of and runs in parallel with any applicable patents. Outside the major markets, the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property protection for pharmaceuticals varies widely, and in a number of these markets we are unable to patent our products or to enforce the patents we receive for our products. Under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Agreement (TRIPs) administered by the World Trade Organization, more than 140 countries have agreed to provide non-discriminatory protection for most pharmaceutical inventions and to assure that adequate and effective rights are available to patent owners. Certain developing countries limit protection for biopharmaceutical products under their interpretation of flexibilities allowed under the agreement. Thus, some types of patents, such as those on new uses of compounds or new forms of molecules, are not available in certain developing countries. Further, many developing countries, and some developed countries, do not provide effective data package protection even though it is specified in TRIPs. 9 Our Intellectual Property Portfolio We consider intellectual property protection for certain products, processes, uses, and formulations particularly with respect to those products discussed below to be important to our operations. In addition to the data protection and patents identified below, we may hold patents on manufacturing processes, formulations, devices, or uses that extend exclusivity beyond the dates shown below. The most relevant U.S. patent protection or data protection and associated expiry dates for our top-selling or recently launched patent-protected marketed products are as follows: Alimta is protected by a vitamin regimen patent (2021) plus pediatric exclusivity (May 2022). Baqsimi is protected by data protection (July 2022). Cyramza is protected by a compound patent and biologics data protection (2026). Emgality is protected by a compound patent (2033). Jardiance, and the related combination products Glyxambi and Synjardy, are protected by a compound patent (2025, not including possible patent extension). Olumiant is protected by a compound patent (2030, not including possible patent extension). Reyvow is protected by a compound patent (2025, not including possible patent extension). Taltz is protected by a compound patent (2026, not including possible patent extension) and by biologics data protection (2028). Trajenta and Jentadueto are protected by a compound patent (2023, not including possible patent extension). Trulicity is protected by a compound patent (2027). Verzenio is protected by a compound patent (2029, not including possible patent extension). Outside the U.S., important patent protection or data protection includes: Alimta is protected by a vitamin regimen patent in major European countries (June 2021) and by patents covering use to treat cancer concomitantly with vitamins in Japan (June 2021). Cyramza is protected by a compound patent in major European countries (2028) and Japan (2026). Emgality in is protected by a compound patent in major European countries (2033) and Japan (2031, not including possible patent extension). Olumiant is protected by a compound patent in major European countries (2029, not including possible patent extension) and Japan (2033). Taltz is protected b