Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. [Reserved] 34 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 118 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 118 Item 9B. Other Information 118 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 118 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 119 Item 11. Executive Compensation 119 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 120 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 120 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 120 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 121 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 123 2 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other publicly available documents include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, information appearing under "Business," "Risk Factors," and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" includes forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts, and generally can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "believe," "will," "expect," "project," "estimate," "intend," "anticipate," "plan," "continue," or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs. Forward-looking statements inherently involve many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, it is based on management's current plans and expectations, expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, we can give no assurance that any such expectation or belief will result or will be achieved or accomplished. Investors therefore should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The following include some but not all of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: the impact of the evolving COVID-19 pandemic or any future pandemic, epidemic, or similar public health threat and the global response thereto; uncertainties related to our efforts to develop, manufacture, and distribute potential treatments for COVID-19; the significant costs and uncertainties in the pharmaceutical research and development process, including with respect to the timing and process of obtaining regulatory approvals; the impact and outcome of acquisitions and business development transactions and related integration costs; the expiration of intellectual property protection for certain of our products and competition from generic and/or biosimilar products; our ability to protect and enforce patents and other intellectual property; changes in patent law or regulations related to data package exclusivity; competitive developments affecting current products and our pipeline; market uptake of recently launched products; information technology system inadequacies, breaches, or operating failures; unauthorized access, disclosure, misappropriation, or compromise of confidential information or other data stored in our information technology systems, networks, and facilities, or those of third parties with whom we share our data; unexpected safety or efficacy concerns associated with our products; litigation, investigations, or other similar proceedings involving past, current, or future products or commercial activities as we are largely self-insured; issues with product supply and regulatory approvals stemming from manufacturing difficulties, disruptions, or shortages, including as a result of demand, labor shortages, third-party performance, or regulatory actions relating to our facilities; reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements; regulatory changes or other developments; regulatory actions regarding currently marketed products; continued pricing pressures and the impact of actions of governmental and private payers affecting pricing of, reimbursement for, and access to pharmaceuticals; devaluations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in interest rates, and inflation; changes in tax law, tax rates, or events that differ from our assumptions related to tax positions; asset impairments and restructuring charges; 3 the impact of global macroeconomic conditions, trade disruptions, global disputes, unrest, war, or other costs, uncertainties and risks related to engaging in business in foreign jurisdictions; changes in accounting and reporting standards promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); and regulatory compliance problems or government investigations. Investors should also carefully read the factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain risks that could, among other things, cause our actual results to differ from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the risks described above and under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risk factors and cautionary statements included in this Annual Report. Except as is required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this Annual Report. 4 Part I Item 1. Business Eli Lilly and Company (referred to as the company, Lilly, we, or us) was incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly. We discover, develop, manufacture, and market products in a single business segment human pharmaceutical products. Our purpose is to unite caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. Most of the products we sell today were discovered or developed by our own scientists, and our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative new medicines. We manufacture and distribute our products through facilities in the United States (U.S.), including Puerto Rico, and 7 other countries. Our products are sold in approximately 120 countries. Products Our products include: Diabetes products , including: Basaglar , in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, a long-acting human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes. Humalog , Humalog Mix 75/25, Humalog U-100, Humalog U-200, Humalog Mix 50/50 , insulin lispro, insulin lispro protamine , and insulin lispro mix 75/25, human insulin analogs for the treatment of diabetes. Humulin , Humulin 70/30, Humulin N, Humulin R, and Humulin U-500 , human insulins of recombinant DNA origin for the treatment of diabetes. Jardiance , in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes; to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease; and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalizations for heart failure in adults with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. Trajenta , in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Trulicit y , for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. Oncology products , including: Alimta , for the first-line treatment, in combination with two other agents, of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for patients with non-squamous cell histology and no epidermal growth factor receptor or anaplastic lymphoma kinase genomic tumor aberrations; for the first-line treatment, in combination with another agent, of advanced non-squamous NSCLC; for the second-line treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC; as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC in patients whose disease has not progressed immediately following chemotherapy treatment; and in combination with another agent for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma. Cyramza , for use as monotherapy or in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric cancer or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic NSCLC; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer; as a monotherapy as a second-line treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma; and in combination with another agent as a first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC with activating epidermal growth factor receptor mutations. Erbitux , indicated both as monotherapy and in combination with another agent for the treatment of certain types of colorectal cancers; and as monotherapy, in combination with chemotherapy, or in combination with radiation therapy for the treatment of certain types of head and neck cancers. 5 Retevmo , for the treatment of metastatic NSCLC in adult patients; for the treatment of advanced metastatic medullary thyroid cancer who require systemic therapy in adult and pediatric patients; and for the treatment of advanced metastatic thyroid cancer in adult and pediatric patients who require systemic therapy and are radioactive iodin-refractory. Tyvyt , in collaboration with Innovent Biologics, Inc., for the treatment of relapsed or refractory classic Hodgkin's lymphoma and for the first-line treatment of non-squamous NSCLC in combination with Alimta and another agent in China. Verzenio , for use as monotherapy or in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of HR+, HER2- metastatic breast cancer and in combination with endocrine therapy for treatment of HR+, HER2-, node positive, early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence and a Ki-67 score at least 20%, as determined by a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved test. Immunology products , including: Olumiant , in collaboration with Incyte Corporation, for the treatment of adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis and for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. Baricitinib was granted Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in 2021 for the treatment of COVID-19 in hospitalized adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age or older requiring supplemental oxygen, non-invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Taltz , for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients aged 6 years or older with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, adults with active psoriatic arthritis, adults with ankylosing spondylitis, and adults with active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis. Neuroscience products , including: Cymbalta , for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, fibromyalgia, and chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic low back pain or chronic pain due to osteoarthritis. Emgality , for migraine prevention and the treatment of episodic cluster headache in adults. Zyprexa , for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, and bipolar maintenance. Other therapies , including: Bamlanivimab and etesevimab , administered together, for the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 12 years old with positive results of direct SARS-CoV-2 viral testing and who are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death (EUA granted in 2021). In January 2022, the FDA revised the EUA for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together to limit their use to only when the patient is likely to have been infected with or exposed to a variant that is susceptible to this combination treatment. Bebtelovimab , for the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age and older and weighing at least 40 kilograms) with positive results of direct SARS-CoV-2 viral testing, and who are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death, and for whom alternative COVID-19 treatment options approved or authorized by the FDA are not accessible or clinically appropriate (EUA granted in 2022). Cialis , for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and benign prostatic hyperplasia. Forteo , for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture and for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women. Marketing and Distribution We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local customer needs and comply with local regulations. 6 U.S. We promote our major products in the U.S. through sales representatives who engage with physicians and other health care professionals. We also educate healthcare providers about our products in various other ways, including promoting in online health care channels, distributing literature and samples of certain products to physicians, and exhibiting at medical meetings. In addition, we advertise certain products directly to consumers in the U.S., and we maintain websites and other media channels with information about our major products. We supplement our employee sales force with contract sales organizations to leverage our resources and reach additional patients in need. We maintain special business groups to service wholesalers, pharmacy benefit managers, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations, government and long-term care institutions, hospitals, and certain retail pharmacies. We enter into arrangements with these organizations providing for discounts or rebates on our products. In the U.S., most of our products are distributed through wholesalers that serve pharmacies, physicians and other health care professionals, and hospitals. In 2021, 2020, and 2019, three wholesale distributors in the U.S. McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and Cardinal Health, Inc. each accounted for between 15 percent and 20 percent of our consolidated revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenue in any of these years. Outside the U.S. Outside the U.S., we promote our products to healthcare providers primarily through sales representatives and other health care channels. While the products we market vary from country to country, diabetes products constitute the largest single group of our consolidated revenue. Distribution patterns for our products also vary from country to country. In most countries in which we operate, we maintain our own sales organizations, but in some smaller countries we market our products through third-party distributors, some of which we have engaged through distribution and promotion arrangements. Marketing Collaborations Certain of our products are marketed in arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies. For example, we and Boehringer Ingelheim have a global agreement to develop and commercialize a portfolio of diabetes products, including Trajenta, Jentadueto , Jardiance, Glyxambi , Synjardy , Trijardy XR, and Basaglar. For additional information, see Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4, Collaborations and Other Arrangements." Competition Our products compete globally with many other pharmaceutical products in highly competitive markets. Important competitive factors include effectiveness, safety, and ease of use; formulary placement, price, and demonstrated cost-effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; and research and development of new products, processes, modalities, and uses. Most new products that we introduce must compete with other branded, biosimilar, or generic products already on the market or that are later developed by competitors. When competitors introduce new products or delivery systems with therapeutic or cost advantages, including by developing new modalities, our products become subject to decreased sales, progressive price reductions, or both. We believe our long-term competitive success depends on discovering and developing (either alone or in collaboration with others) or acquiring innovative, cost-effective products that provide improved outcomes for patients and deliver value to payers, and continuously improving the productivity of our operations in a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that our efforts will result in commercially successful products, and it is possible that our products will be, or will become, uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products developed by our competitors. 7 Generic Pharmaceuticals One of the biggest competitive challenges we face is from generic pharmaceuticals. In the U.S. and Europe, the regulatory approval process for pharmaceuticals (other than biological products (biologics)) exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic manufacturers generally invest far fewer resources than we do in research and development and can price their products significantly lower than our branded products. Accordingly, when a branded non-biologic pharmaceutical loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product, which can cause us to lose a significant portion of the product's revenue in a very short period of time. Further, public and private payers typically encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. Where substitution is mandatory, it must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In many countries outside the U.S., intellectual property protection is weak, and we must compete with generic or counterfeit versions of our products relatively shortly after launch. Biosimilars A number of our products and potential new medicines in our clinical-stage pipeline are biologics. In the U.S., the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and implementing regulations. Competition for Lilly's biologics may be affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilars. A biosimilar is a subsequent version of an approved innovator biologic that, due to its analytical and clinical similarity to the innovator biologic, may be approved based on an abbreviated data package that relies in part on the full testing required of the innovator biologic. Approval by the FDA ultimately depends on many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity, and potency. Globally, most governments have developed abbreviated regulatory pathways to approve biosimilars as follow-ons to innovator-developed biologics, including the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (the BPCIA) in the U.S. A number of biosimilars have been licensed under the BPCIA and in Europe. The patent and regulatory exclusivity for the existing innovator biologic generally must expire in a given market before biosimilars may enter that market. However, in the U.S., the product exclusivity period under the BPCIA could be affected by recent government proposals and litigation. See "- Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights." In addition, the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for the innovator biologic in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biologic products is not yet entirely clear, and will depend on a number of regulatory and marketplace factors that are still developing. In the U.S., currently only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" by the FDA will be considered substitutable for the original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The FDA has begun to issue "interchangeable" designations for biosimilar products. Biosimilars may present both competitive challenges and opportunities. For example, a competitor company has developed a version of insulin lispro that competes with our product Humalog. On the other hand, in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, we developed Basaglar, an insulin glargine product, which has the same amino acid sequence as a product currently marketed by a competitor and has launched as a follow-on biologic in the U.S., and as a biosimilar in Europe and Japan. However, in March 2020, the FDA began regulating all of our insulin products as "biologics" rather than "drugs." Based on FDA draft guidance, this change may lessen the amount of data required for competitor biosimilar products to enter the market, some of which could be designated as interchangeable and therefore substituted for our insulin products at U.S. pharmacies. For example, in June 2020, the FDA approved a New Drug Application (NDA) for Semglee, a follow-on insulin glargine product that competes with Basaglar in the U.S., and, in July 2021, Semglee received additional FDA approval as a biosimilar that is interchangeable to its reference insulin glargine product. The FDA's interpretation of important aspects of the laws regulating biosimilars continues to evolve and, therefore, the impact of these laws on our business remains subject to substantial uncertainty. 8 U.S. Private Sector Dynamics In the U.S. private sector, consolidation and integration among healthcare providers significantly affects the competitive marketplace for pharmaceuticals. Health plans, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, wholesalers, and other supply chain stakeholders have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, typically maintain formularies that specify coverage (the conditions under which drugs are included on a plan's formulary) and reimbursement (the associated out-of-pocket cost to the consumer) to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Formulary placement can lead to reduced usage of a drug for the relevant patient population due to coverage restrictions, such as prior authorizations and formulary exclusions, or due to reimbursement limitations that result in higher consumer out-of-pocket cost, such as non-preferred co-pay tiers, increased co-insurance levels, and higher deductibles. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies face increased pressure in pricing and usage negotiation, and compete fiercely for formulary placement, not only on the basis of product attributes such as efficacy, safety profile, or patient ease of use, but also by providing rebates. As payers and pharmaceutical companies continue to negotiate formulary placement and pricing, value-based agreements, where pricing is based on achievement (or not) of specified outcomes, are another tool that may become increasingly prevalent. Price is an increasingly important factor in formulary decisions, particularly in treatment areas in which the payer has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. We expect these downward pricing pressures will continue to negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition to formulary placement, changes in insurance designs continue to drive greater consumer cost-sharing through high deductible plans and higher co-insurance or co-pays. For additional information on pricing and reimbursement for our pharmaceutical products, see "- Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access - U.S." Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights Overview Intellectual property protection is critical to our ability to successfully commercialize our life sciences innovations and invest in the search for new medicines. We own, have applied for, or are licensed under, a large number of patents in the U.S. and many other countries relating to products, product uses, formulations, and manufacturing processes. In addition, as discussed below, for some products we have effective intellectual property protection in the form of data protection under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. The patent protection anticipated to be of most relevance to pharmaceuticals is provided by national patents claiming the active ingredient (the compound patent), particularly those in major markets such as the U.S., major European countries, and Japan. These patents may be issued based upon the filing of international patent applications, usually filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). Patent applications covering compounds are generally filed during the Discovery Phase of the drug discovery process, which is described in the "Research and Development" section below. In general, national patents in each relevant country are available for a period of 20 years from the filing date of the PCT application, which is often years prior to the launch of a commercial product. Further patent term adjustments and restorations may extend the original patent term: Patent term adjustment is a statutory right available to all U.S. patent applicants to provide relief in the event that a patent grant is delayed during examination by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Patent term restoration is a statutory right provided to U.S. patent holders that claim inventions subject to review by the FDA. To make up for a portion of the time invested in clinical trials and the FDA review process, a single patent for a pharmaceutical product may be eligible for patent term restoration. Patent term restoration is limited by a formula and cannot be calculated until product approval due to uncertainty about the duration of clinical trials and the time it takes the FDA to review an application. There is a five-year cap on any restoration, and no patent's expiration date may be extended beyond 14 years from FDA approval. Some countries outside the U.S. similarly offer forms of patent term restoration for patents claiming inventions subject to a local review by a regulatory agency. For example, Supplementary Protection Certificates are available to extend the life of a European patent up to an additional five years (subject to a 15-year cap from European Medicines Agency (EMA) approval). Also, in Japan, South Korea, and Australia, patent terms can be extended up to five years, depending on the length of regulatory review and other factors. 9 Loss of effective patent protection for pharmaceuticals, especially for non-biologic products, typically results in the loss of effective market exclusivity for the product, which often results in severe and rapid decline in revenues for the product. However, in some cases the innovator company may retain exclusivity despite approval of the generic, biosimilar, or other follow-on versions of a new medicine beyond the expiration of the compound patent through manufacturing trade secrets, later-expiring patents on manufacturing processes, methods of use or formulations, or data protection that may be available under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. Changes to the laws and regulations governing these protections could result in earlier loss of effective market exclusivity. The primary forms of data protection are as follows: Regulatory authorities in major markets generally grant data package protection for a period of years following new drug approvals in recognition of the substantial investment required to complete clinical trials. Data package protection prohibits other manufacturers from submitting regulatory applications for marketing approva