ITEM 1. Business 3 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 9 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 ITEM 2. Properties 20 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 21 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 ITEM 4(a). Information about our Executive Officers 22 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 25 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 99 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 99 ITEM 9B. Other Information 101 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 101 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 101 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 101 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 101 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 102 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 105 SIGNATURES 106 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics, system integration and cybersecurity services. We serve both U.S. and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In 2019 , 71% of our $59.8 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor (including 61% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 28% were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government) and 1% were from U.S. commercial and other customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cybersecurity. We operate in an environment characterized by both complexity in global security and continuing economic pressures in the U.S. and globally. A significant component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing security capability quickly into the hands of our U.S. and international customers at affordable prices. Recognizing that our customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio domestically in a disciplined manner with a focus on adjacent markets close to our core capabilities, as well as growing our international sales. We continue to focus on affordability initiatives. We also expect to continue to innovate and invest in technologies to fulfill new mission requirements for our customers and invest in our people so that we have the technical skills necessary to succeed . We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Rotary and Mission Systems (RMS) and Space. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. Aeronautics In 2019 , our Aeronautics business segment generated net sales of $23.7 billion , which represented 40% of our total consolidated net sales. Aeronautics customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy, and various other government agencies of the U.S. and other countries. In 2019 , U.S. Government customers accounted for 62% , international customers accounted for 37% and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 1% of Aeronautics net sales. Net sales from Aeronautics combat aircraft products and services represented 32% of our total consolidated net sales in both 2019 and 2018 , and 31% in 2017 . Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies. Aeronautics major programs include: F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter - international multi-role, multi-variant, fifth generation stealth fighter; C-130 Hercules - international tactical airlifter; F-16 Fighting Falcon - low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter; and F-22 Raptor - air dominance and multi-mission fifth generation stealth fighter. The F-35 program is our largest program, generating 27% of our total consolidated net sales, as well as 69% of Aeronautics net sales in 2019 . The F-35 program consists of multiple development, production and sustainment contracts. Development is focused on modernization of F-35 s capability and addressing emerging threats. Sustainment provides logistics and training support for the aircraft delivered to F-35 customers. The DoD authorized the F-35 Joint Program Office (JPO) to begin the Government-led Initial Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT E) phase in December 2018. The full-rate production decision, also known formally as Milestone C, is expected to be delayed by the DoD until IOT E activities are complete in the Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR)-led Joint Simulation Environment (JSE). The JSE is used to conduct simulated evaluations of the F-35 in a range of high-threat scenarios. Testing is expected to be completed by the end of 2020. The data will be utilized by the U.S. Government as part of their evaluation to transition the F-35 program from Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) into full-rate production. Production of the aircraft is expected to continue for many years given the U.S. Government s current inventory objective of 2,456 aircraft for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Navy; commitments from our eight international partner countries and four international customers; as well as expressions of interest from other countries. In 2019 , we delivered 134 aircraft, 3 Table of Contents including 54 to international customers, resulting in total deliveries of 491 production aircraft since program inception. We have 374 production aircraft in backlog as of December 31, 2019 , including orders from our international partner countries. For additional information on the F-35 program, see Status of the F 35 Program in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See also Item 1A - Risk Factors for a discussion of risks related to the F-35 program. Aeronautics produces and provides support and sustainment services for the C-130J Super Hercules, as well as upgrades and support services for the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet. We delivered 28 C-130J aircraft in 2019 , including three to international customers. We have 99 aircraft in our backlog as of December 31, 2019 . Our C-130J backlog extends into 2025. Aeronautics produces F-16 aircraft for international customers and continues to provide service-life extension, modernization and other upgrade programs for our customers F 16 aircraft, with existing contracts continuing for several years. In July 2019, the U.S. Government awarded a contract for 14 new production F-16 Block 70/72 aircraft for the Slovak Republic. Additionally, we received a contract in 2018 from the U.S. Government for the sale of 16 new production Block 70 F-16 aircraft for the Royal Bahraini Air Force. As of December 31, 2019 , we have 30 F-16 aircraft in backlog. We continue to seek international opportunities to deliver additional aircraft. Aeronautics continues to provide modernization and sustainment activities for the U.S. Air Force s F-22 aircraft fleet. The modernization program comprises upgrading existing systems requirements, developing new systems requirements, adding capabilities and enhancing the performance of the weapon systems. The sustainment program consists of sustaining the weapon systems of the F-22 fleet, providing training systems, customer support, integrated support planning, supply chain management, aircraft modifications and heavy maintenance, systems engineering and support products. In addition to the aircraft programs discussed above, Aeronautics is involved in advanced development programs incorporating innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as Skunk Works , is focused on future systems, including unmanned and manned aerial systems and next generation capabilities for advanced strike, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion into our existing aircraft. We also are involved in numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness and we continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development and production. Missiles and Fire Control In 2019 , our MFC business segment generated net sales of $10.1 billion , which represented 17% of our total consolidated net sales. MFC s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2019 , U.S. Government customers accounted for 75%, international customers accounted for 24% and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 1% of MFC s net sales. MFC provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon systems; logistics; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; and energy management solutions. MFC also has contracts with the U.S. Government for various classified programs. MFC s major programs include: The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth s atmosphere. The Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Hellfire, Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM) and Javelin tactical missile programs. MLRS is a highly mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps and international customers. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. Javelin is a shoulder-fired anti-armor rocket system, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Marine Corps and international customers. The Apache, Sniper Advanced Targeting Pod (SNIPER ) and Infrared Search and Track (IRST21 ) fire control systems programs. The Apache fire control system provides weapons targeting capability for the Apache helicopter for the U.S. Army and international customers. SNIPER is a targeting system for several fixed-wing aircraft and is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. IRST21 provides long-range infrared detection and tracking of airborne threats and is used on several fixed-wing aircraft. IRST21 is produced for the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Navy, the National Guard and international customers. 4 Table of Contents The Special Operations Forces Global Logistics Support Services (SOF GLSS) program provides logistics support services to the special operations forces of the U.S. military. Hypersonics programs, several programs with the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army to design, develop and build hypersonic strike weapons. Rotary and Mission Systems In 2019 , our RMS business segment generated net sales of $15.1 billion , which represented 25% of our total consolidated net sales. RMS customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Navy and Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2019 , U.S. Government customers accounted for 72%, international customers accounted for 25% and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 3% of RMS net sales. Net sales from RMS Sikorsky helicopter programs represented 9% , 10% and 12% of our consolidated net sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . RMS provides design, manufacture, service and support for a variety of military and commercial helicopters; ship and submarine mission and combat systems; mission systems and sensors for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft; sea and land-based missile defense systems; radar systems; the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS); simulation and training services; and unmanned systems and technologies. In addition, RMS supports the needs of government customers in cybersecurity and delivers communications and command and control capabilities through complex mission solutions for defense applications. RMS major programs include: The Black Hawk and Seahawk helicopters manufactured for U.S. and foreign governments. The Aegis Combat System (Aegis) serves as an air and missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea and land-based element of the U.S. missile defense system. The CH-53K King Stallion helicopter delivering the next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps. The LCS and the Multi-Mission Surface Combatant (MMSC) programs to provide surface combatant ships for the U.S. Navy and international customers that are designed to operate in shallow waters and the open ocean. The VH-92A helicopter manufactured for the U.S. Marine One transport mission. The Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) contract, a program to provide an air operations center for the Ballistic Missile Defense System for the U.S. Government. Space In 2019 , our Space business segment generated net sales of $10.9 billion , which represented 18% of our total consolidated net sales. Space s customers include various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries along with commercial customers. In 2019 , U.S. Government customers accounted for 86% and international customers accounted for 14% of Space s net sales. Net sales from Space s satellite products and services represented 11% of our total consolidated net sales in 2019 and 2018 , and 12% in 2017 . Space is engaged in the research, design, development, engineering and production of satellites, space transportation systems, and strategic, advanced strike, and defensive systems. Space provides network-enabled situational awareness and integrates complex space and ground global systems to help our customers gather, analyze and securely distribute critical intelligence data. Space is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space s major programs include: The United Kingdom s nuclear deterrent program operated by the AWE Management Limited (AWE) joint venture. The Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM), a program with the U.S. Navy for the only submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missile currently in production in the U.S. The Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS) and Next Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR) system programs, which provide the U.S. Air Force with enhanced worldwide missile warning capabilities. The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion), a spacecraft for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) utilizing new technology for human exploration missions beyond low earth orbit. Global Positioning System (GPS) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Air Force. Hypersonics programs, several programs with the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army and U.S. Navy to design, develop and build hypersonic strike weapons. The Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, the next generation of highly secure communications satellites for the U.S. Air Force. 5 Table of Contents Competition Our broad portfolio of products and services competes both domestically and internationally against products and services of other large aerospace and defense companies, as well as numerous smaller competitors. Changes within the industry we operate in, such as vertical integration by our peers, could negatively impact us. We often form teams with our competitors in efforts to provide our customers with the best mix of capabilities to address specific requirements. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage expanded competition. Principal factors of competition include the value of our products and services to the customer; technical and management capability; the ability to develop and implement complex, integrated system architectures; total cost of ownership; our demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements; and our ability to provide timely solutions. Technological advances in such areas as additive manufacturing, cloud computing, advanced materials, autonomy, robotics, and big data and new business models such as commercial access to space are enabling new factors of competition for both traditional and non-traditional competitors. The competition for international sales is generally subject to U.S. Government stipulations (e.g., export restrictions, market access, technology transfer, industrial cooperation and contracting practices). We may compete against U.S. and non-U.S. companies (or teams) for contract awards by international governments. International competitions also may be subject to different laws or contracting practices of international governments that may affect how we structure our bid for the procurement. In many international procurements, the purchasing government s relationship with the U.S. and its industrial cooperation programs are also important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It is common for international customers to require contractors to comply with their industrial cooperation regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have entered into foreign offset agreements as part of securing some international business. For more information concerning offset agreements, see Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Intellectual Property We routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks related to the products and services we provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, we develop and own other intellectual property, including copyrights, trade secrets and research, development and engineering know-how, which contribute significantly to our business. We also license intellectual property to and from third parties. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) provide that the U.S. Government obtains certain rights in intellectual property, including patents, developed by us and our subcontractors and suppliers in performance of government contracts or with government funding. The U.S. Government may use or authorize others, including competitors, to use such intellectual property. See the discussion of matters related to our intellectual property within Item 1A - Risk Factors. Non-U.S. governments may also have certain rights in patents and other intellectual property developed in performance of our contracts with these entities. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Raw Materials, Suppliers and Seasonality Some of our products require relatively scarce raw materials. Historically, we have been successful in obtaining the raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining an acceptable level of the key materials in inventories. Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space programs. Long-term agreements have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in composite materials used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35 aircraft. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in some commodities markets can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations may negatively affect the price and availability of certain materials. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw materials and believe that we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these variations, if key materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs or reduced operating profits or cash flows. We rely on other companies to provide materials, major components and products, and to perform a portion of the services that are provided to our customers under the terms of most of our contracts. A failure by one or more of these suppliers or subcontractors to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis, according to specifications, or at all, may affect our ability to perform our obligations. While we believe we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these risks, supplier disruptions could result in delays, increased costs, or reduced operating profits or cash flows. 6 Table of Contents No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our sales between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance. Government Contracts and Regulations Our business is heavily regulated. We contract with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, principally all branches of the U.S. military and NASA. We also contract with similar government authorities in other countries and they regulate our international efforts. Additionally, our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with U.S. and international regulations governing production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. We must comply with, and are affected by, laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other governments contracts, including foreign governments. These laws and regulations, among other things: require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain types of contract negotiations; impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); impose acquisition regulations, which may change or be replaced over time, that define which costs can be charged to the U.S. Government, how and when costs can be charged, and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain U.S. Government and foreign contracts; require specific security controls to protect U.S. Government controlled unclassified information and restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data; and require the review and approval of contractor business systems, defined in the regulations as: (i) Accounting System; (ii) Estimating System; (iii) Earned Value Management System, for managing cost and schedule performance on certain complex programs; (iv) Purchasing System; (v) Material Management and Accounting System, for planning, controlling and accounting for the acquisition, use, issuing and disposition of material; and (vi) Property Management System. The U.S. Government and other governments may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we generally are protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those costs. If a contract is terminated for default, we generally are entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the U.S. Government or other governments; however, the U.S. Government and other governments could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. For more information regarding the U.S. Government s and other governments right to terminate our contracts, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. For more information regarding government contracting laws and regulations, see Item 1A - Risk Factors as well as Critical Accounting Policies - Contract Accounting / Sales Recognition in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For more information on the risks of doing work internationally, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. Additionally, our programs for the U.S. Government often operate for periods of time under undefinitized contract actions (UCAs), which means that we begin performing our obligations before the terms, specifications or price are finally agreed to between the parties. Although in most cases we historically have reached mutual agreement to definitize our UCAs, the U.S. Government has the ability to unilaterally definitize contracts and has done so in the past. Absent a successful appeal of such action, the unilateral definitization of the contract obligates us to perform under terms and conditions imposed by the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government s power to unilaterally definitize a contract can affect our ability to negotiate mutually agreeable contract terms and, if a contract is unilaterally imposed upon us, it may negatively affect our expected profit and cash flows on a program or impose burdensome terms. A portion of our business is classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results of these classified contracts are included in our consolidated financial statements. The business risks and capital requirements associated with classified contracts historically have not differed materially from those of our other U.S. Government contracts. Our internal controls addressing the financial reporting of classified contracts are consistent with our internal controls for our non-classified contracts. Our operations are subject to and affected by various federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise regulating the protection of the environment. While the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated, the costs of environmental compliance have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial position and 7 Table of Contents cash flow, primarily because substantially all of our environmental costs are allowable in establishing the price of our products and services under our contracts with the U.S. Government. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent that they are probable and estimable, see Critical Accounting Policies - Environmental Matters in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 14 Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See also the discussion of environmental matters within Item 1A - Risk Factors. Backlog At December 31, 2019 , our backlog was $144.0 billion compared with $130.5 billion at December 31, 2018 . Backlog is converted into sales in future periods as work is performed or deliveries are made. We expect to recognize approximately 39% of our backlog over the next 12 months and approximately 65% over the next 24 months as revenue, with the remainder recognized thereafter. Our backlog includes both funded (firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer) and unfunded (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated) amounts. We do not include unexercised options or potential orders under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity agreements in our backlog. If any of our contracts with firm orders were to be terminated, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the unfilled orders of such contracts. Funded backlog was $94.5 billion at December 31, 2019 , as compared to $86.4 billion at December 31, 2018 . For backlog related to each of our business segments, see Business Segment Results of Operations in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Research 