ITEM 1. Business 3 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 10 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 22 ITEM 2. Properties 24 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 24 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 ITEM 4(a). Information about our Executive Officers 25 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 28 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 97 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 97 ITEM 9B. Other Information 99 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 99 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 99 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 99 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 100 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 100 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 100 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 101 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 104 SIGNATURES 105 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics, system integration and cybersecurity services. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cybersecurity. We serve both U.S. and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. We operate in a complex and evolving global security environment. Our strategy consists of the design and development of platforms and systems that meet the current needs of our customers and the future requirements of 21st Century Security. Our vision for 21st Century Security is to accelerate the adoption of advanced networking and leading-edge technologies into our national defense enterprise, while enhancing the performance and value of our platforms and products for our customers. The aim of 21st Century Security is to integrate new and existing systems across all domains with advanced, open-architecture networking and operational technologies to make defense forces more agile, adaptive and unpredictable. Twenty-first Century Security is an overarching vision that guides our investment and strategy. We are also focused on four elements for potential growth in the near to mid-term: current programs of record, classified programs, hypersonics and new awards. We have multiple programs of record from each business segment that are entering growth stages, including the F-35 sustainment activity (Aeronautics); increased Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) production rates and increased demand for High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS ) and Guided Multiple Launch Rocket Systems (GMLRS) (Missiles and Fire Control); radar surveillance systems and CH-53K King Stallion heavy lift helicopter (Rotary and Mission Systems); and the modernization and enhancements to the Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM) (Space). We are engaged in significant classified development programs and pending successful achievement of the objectives within those programs, we expect to begin the transition from development to production over the next few years. We are currently performing on multiple hypersonics programs and following the successful completion of ongoing testing and evaluation activity, multiple programs are expected to enter early production phases through 2026. Finally, we are always in pursuit of new program awards to develop future platforms that enable us to continue to place security capability into the market and expand our global reach. Key to enabling success of our strategy is developing differentiating technologies, forging strategic partnerships, including with commercial companies, executing on our multi-year business transformation initiative to enhance our digital infrastructure and increase efficiencies and collaboration throughout our business and maintaining fiscal discipline. Underpinning our ability to execute our strategy is our talent and culture. We invest substantially in our people to ensure that our workforce has the technical skills necessary to succeed, and we expect to continue to invest internally in innovative technologies that address rapidly evolving mission requirements for our customers. We also will continue to evaluate our portfolio and will make strategic acquisitions or divestitures, as appropriate, while deepening our connection to commercial industry through cooperative partnerships, joint ventures and equity investments. Business Segments We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Rotary and Mission Systems (RMS) and Space. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. Aeronautics Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies. Aeronautics also has contracts with the U.S. Government for various classified programs. Aeronautics major programs include: F-35 Lightning II - international multi-role, multi-variant, fifth generation stealth fighter; C-130 Hercules - international tactical airlifter; F-16 Fighting Falcon - combat-proven, international multi-role fighter; and F-22 Raptor - air dominance and multi-role fifth generation stealth fighter. The F-35 program is our largest program, generating 26% of our total consolidated net sales, as well as 64% of Aeronautics net sales in 2023. The F-35 program consists of multiple development, production and sustainment contracts. Development is focused on modernization of F-35 s capability and addressing emerging threats. Sustainment provides logistics 3 Table of Contents and training support for the aircraft delivered to F-35 customers. For additional information on the F-35 program, see Status of the F 35 Program in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See also Item 1A - Risk Factors for a discussion of risks related to the F-35 program. In addition to the aircraft programs above, Aeronautics is involved in advanced development programs incorporating innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as Skunk Works , is focused on future systems, including unmanned and manned aerial systems and next generation capabilities for air dominance, hypersonics, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion into our existing aircraft. We also are involved in numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness and we continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development and production. Missiles and Fire Control MFC provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon systems; logistics; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; and energy management solutions. MFC also has contracts with the U.S. Government for various classified programs. MFC s major programs include: The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth s atmosphere. The Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Precision Strike Missile (PrSM), Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM), Long Range Anti-Ship Missile (LRASM), and Hellfire tactical and strike missile programs. MLRS is a highly mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS) platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers and PrSM is the next generation of precision strike surface-to-surface weapon systems that is compatible with the MLRS family of launchers in support of the U.S. Army. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. LRASM is a precision guided anti-ship missile derived from JASSM and designed to interdict a variety of surface threats at very long range and produced for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps and international customers. The Apache fire control system, Sniper Advanced Targeting Pod (SNIPER ) and Infrared Search and Track (IRST21 ) sensors and global sustainment programs. The Apache fire control system provides weapons-targeting capability for the Apache helicopter for the U.S. Army and international customers. SNIPER is a targeting system for several fixed-wing aircraft and is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. IRST21 provides long-range infrared detection and tracking of airborne threats and is used on several fixed-wing aircraft. IRST21 is produced for the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Navy, the National Guard and international customers. The Special Operations Forces Global Logistics Support Services (SOF GLSS) program, which provides logistics support services to the special operations forces of the U.S. military. Hypersonics programs, which include several programs with the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army to design, develop and build hypersonic strike weapons. The Javelin program, which is a one-person portable and platform-employable anti-tank and multi-target precision weapon system. Javelin was developed and is currently produced for the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps by a joint venture between Lockheed Martin and RTX Corporation. Rotary and Mission Systems RMS designs, manufactures, services and supports various military and commercial helicopters, surface ships, sea and land-based missile defense systems, radar systems, laser systems, sea and air-based mission and combat systems, command and control mission solutions, cyber solutions, and simulation and training solutions. RMS also has contracts with the U.S. Government for various classified programs. RMS major programs include: Sikorsky helicopter programs such as those related to the BLACK HAWK , Seahawk and CH-53K King Stallion heavy lift helicopters which are in service with U.S. and foreign governments, the Combat Rescue Helicopter (CRH) utilized by the U.S. Air Force, and the VH-92A helicopter for the U.S. Marine One transport mission. Integrated warfare systems and sensors (IWSS) programs such as Aegis Combat System (Aegis) programs that serve as an air and missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea and land-based element of the U.S. missile defense system, and the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) and Multi-Mission Surface Combatant (MMSC) 4 Table of Contents programs to provide surface combatant ships for the U.S. Navy and international customers that are designed to operate in shallow waters and the open ocean. Command, control, communications, computers, cyber, combat systems, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C6ISR) programs such as the Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) program to provide an air operations center for the Ballistic Missile Defense System for the U.S. Government, undersea combat systems programs largely serving the U.S. Navy, and Australia's Joint Air Battle Management System (AIR 6500). Training and logistics solutions (TLS) programs such as those providing sustainment services and programs that provide simulators and associated training to U.S. military and foreign government customers. Space Space is engaged in the research and design, development, engineering and production of satellites, space transportation systems, and strategic, advanced strike, and defensive systems. Space provides network-enabled situational awareness and integrates complex space and ground global systems to help our customers gather, analyze and securely distribute critical intelligence data. Space is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space s major programs include: The Next Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR) system, which provides the U.S. Space Force with enhanced worldwide missile warning capabilities. The Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM), a program with the U.S. Navy for the only submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missile currently in production in the U.S. The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion), a spacecraft for NASA utilizing new technology for human exploration missions beyond low earth orbit. Next Generation Interceptor (NGI), a program with the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) utilizing next generation propulsion and sensors to provide homeland missile defense. Global Positioning System (GPS) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Space Force. Hypersonics programs, which include several programs with the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy to design, develop and build hypersonic strike weapons. The Transport Layer program, a small satellite program designed to support resilient space communications for the Space Development Agency. Intellectual Property We routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks related to the products and services we provide. We also develop and own other intellectual property, including copyrights, trade secrets and research, development and engineering know-how, that contributes significantly to our business. In addition, we license intellectual property to and from third parties. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) provide the U.S. Government certain rights in intellectual property, including patents, developed by us and our subcontractors and suppliers in performance of government contracts or with government funding. The U.S. Government may use or authorize others, including competitors, to use such intellectual property. See the discussion of matters related to our intellectual property in Item 1A - Risk Factors. Non-U.S. governments also may have certain rights in patents and other intellectual property developed in performance of our contracts for them. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Research and Development We conduct research and development (R D) activities using our own funds (referred to as company-funded R D or independent research and development (IR D)) and under contractual arrangements with our customers (referred to as customer-funded R D) to enhance existing products and services and to develop future technologies. R D costs include basic research, applied research, concept formulation studies, design, development, and related test activities. See Note 1 Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (under the caption Research and development and similar costs ) included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Raw Materials, Suppliers and Seasonality Some of our products require relatively scarce raw materials, such as rare earth minerals. Other important materials and components, on which certain of our products rely, include aluminum, titanium, carbon fiber and advanced microelectronics, such as semiconductors. We rely on other companies to provide materials, components and products and to perform a portion of 5 Table of Contents the services that are provided to our customers under the terms of most of our contracts. Although long-term agreements have historically helped enable a continued supply of these materials, the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain challenges, supplier disputes, regulatory restrictions, and inflationary pressures have caused certain parts shortages, extended lead times and pricing escalations affecting certain sources of supply. We continue working to minimize the impact of supply chain challenges on us but many of the challenges are industry wide or caused by geopolitical events and general economic conditions that are outside of our control. These supplier disruptions have resulted in delays and increased costs and have adversely affected our program performance and operating results. These dynamics are expected to continue in 2024. For more information on the risks related to our suppliers and raw materials, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors, however, can affect the distribution of our sales between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance. Human Capital Resources Due to the specialized nature of our business, our performance depends on identifying, attracting, developing, motivating and retaining a highly skilled workforce with the requisite skills and, in many cases, security clearances, in multiple areas, including engineering, science, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, business development and strategy and management. Our human capital management strategy, which we refer to as our people strategy, is tightly aligned with our business needs and technology strategy. During 2023, our human capital efforts were focused on continuing to accelerate the transformation of our technology for workforce management through investments in upgraded systems and processes. We also focused on increasing our ability to meet the quickly changing needs of the business, all while maintaining a respectful, supportive and inclusive working environment and culture. We use a variety of human capital measures in managing our business, including: workforce demographics and metrics in relation to representation, attrition, hiring, promotions and leadership; and talent management metrics, including retention rates of top talent. Workforce Demographics As of December 31, 2023, we had a highly skilled workforce made up of approximately 122,000 employees, including approximately 65,000 engineers, scientists and information technology professionals. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 93% of our workforce was located in the U.S. and approximately 19% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in renegotiating expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities, and management considers employee and union relations to be good. This has continued to be the case in 2023. Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and inclusion is a business imperative for us, as we believe that it is key to our future success. We have focused our diversity and inclusion initiatives on employee recruitment, including active engagement and outreach with minority-serving institutions, employee training and development, such as efforts focused on expanding the diverse talent pipeline, and employee engagement, including through participation in our Business Resource Groups. Our Business Resource Groups are voluntary, employee-led groups that are open to all employees while being aligned to demographic categories that we annually report on to the U.S. Government, including race/ethnicity, gender, disability and veteran status. The categories have been expanded to gain a deeper understanding of our workforce to include military service, sexual-orientation and gender identity which are not part of our annual government submission. The Business Resource Groups foster a diverse and inclusive workplace aligned with our organizational mission, values, goals and business practices and drive awareness and change within our organization. Through these and other focused efforts, including workforce availability, we have improved the diversity of our overall U.S. workforce and within leadership positions, specifically in the representation of women, people of color and people with disabilities. Additionally, veteran representation in our workforce remains outstanding, at almost four times the current annual national percentage of veterans in the civilian workforce. Employee Profile (as of December 31, 2023): Women (a) People of Color (a) Veterans (a) People with Disabilities (a) Overall 23% 32% 21% 12% Executives (b) 25% 17% 21% 13% (a) Based on employees who self-identify. Includes only U.S. employees and expatriates except for data relating to women, which also includes local country nationals. Excludes casual workers, interns/co-ops and employees of certain subsidiaries and joint ventures. (b) Executive is defined as director-level (one level below vice president) or higher. 6 Table of Contents Talent Acquisition, Retention and Development We strive to hire, develop and retain the top talent in the industry. During 2023, we hired nearly 15,000 employees. An integral part of our people strategy is early career hiring through college and intern pipelines, particularly in technical fields and critical skills areas. During the 2022-2023 academic year, we hired a record 6,000 college hires and interns. In addition to efforts focused on recruitment, we also monitor employee attrition across a broad array of categories and segments of the population, including with respect to diversity and top talent. Critical to attracting and retaining top talent is employee satisfaction, and we regularly conduct employee engagement surveys to gauge employee satisfaction and to understand the effectiveness of our people strategy and assess employee s intent to stay. We attract and reward our employees by providing market competitive compensation and benefits, including incentives and recognition plans that extend to non-represented employees of all levels in our organization and encourage excellence through our pay-for-performance philosophy. We have a hybrid workforce model that encourages flexible working arrangements for employees and teams who can meet our customer commitments remotely, which has helped recruit and retain talent. In addition, we invest in the development of our employees through training, apprenticeship programs, security clearance sponsorship, leadership development plans and offering tuition assistance programs for continuing education or industry certifications. We believe this employee development makes us more competitive and also assists with leadership succession planning throughout the corporation. Employee Safety and Health Through our safety and health program we seek to optimize our operations with targeted safety, health and wellness opportunities designed to provide safe work conditions, and a healthy work environment, promote workforce resiliency and enhance business value. As part of this program, we track employee health and safety measures, including quarterly and yearly targets related to the number of injury and illness incidents that occur at work, those incidents that result in days lost, and the number of days lost due to workplace injuries and illness. For information on the risks related to our human capital resources, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. Competition We compete with many different companies in the defense and aerospace industry. The Boeing Company, General Dynamics, L3Harris Technologies, Northrop Grumman, and RTX Corporation are some of our primary competitors. Key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities and the existence of bid protests (competitor protests of U.S. Government procurement awards). We often collaborate with our competitors through teaming arrangements in efforts to provide our customers with the best mix of capabilities to address specific requirements. Additionally, a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, serve as a subcontractor to the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts. Our broad portfolio of products and services competes domestically and internationally against products and services of the companies listed above, numerous smaller competitors and startups, and increasingly, non-traditional and non-U.S. defense contractors. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage or facilitate expanded competition. Principal factors of competition include: the technical excellence, reliability, safety and cost competitiveness of our products and services to the customer; technical and management capability; the ability to innovate and develop new products and technologies that improve mission performance and adapt to dynamic threats; successful program execution and on-time delivery of complex, integrated systems; the reputation and customer confidence derived from past performance; our demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements and successfully manage customer relationships; and our global footprint and accessibility to customers. The competition for international sales for most of our products and services is subject to U.S. Government stipulations (e.g., export restrictions, market access, technology transfer, industrial cooperation and contracting practices). We compete against U.S. and non-U.S. companies (or teams) for contract awards by international governments. International competitions are also subject to different laws or contracting practices of international governments, which affects how we structure our bid for the procurement. In many international procurements, the purchasing government s relationship with the U.S. and its industrial cooperation programs designed to enhance local industry are important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It is common for international customers to require contractors to comply with their industrial cooperation regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have entered into foreign offset agreements as part of securing 7 Table of Contents some international business. For more information concerning our international business, see International Business in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 1A - Risk Factors. Technological advances in such areas as additive manufacturing, data analytics, digital engineering, artificial intelligence, advanced materials, autonomy and robotics, and new business models such as commercial access to space, are enabling new factors of competition for both traditional and non-traditional competitors. Regulatory Matters Our business is heavily regulated. We contract with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, principally all branches of the U.S. military and NASA. We also contract with similar government authorities in other countries, either under the foreign military sales (FMS) program, contracted through the U.S. Government, or as a direct sale with the foreign government authority, which regulates these sales in a manner similar to the U.S. Government. Government Contracts We must comply with, and are affected by, laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other governments contracts, including foreign governments. These laws and regulations, among other things: require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain types of contract negotiations; impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); impose acquisition regulations, which may change or be replaced over time, that define which costs can be charged to the U.S. Government, how and when costs can be charged, and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain U.S. Government and foreign contracts; require specific security controls to protect U.S. Government controlled unclassified information and that our suppliers that have access to this type of information comply with cyber security regulations; restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data; prohibit the