ITEM 1. Business 3 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 11 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 ITEM 2. Properties 25 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 26 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 ITEM 4(a). Information about our Executive Officers 27 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 30 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 61 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 107 ITEM 9B. Other Information 109 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 109 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 109 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 109 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 110 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 110 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 110 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 111 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 114 SIGNATURES 115 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics, system integration and cybersecurity services. We serve both U.S. and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In 2021, 71% of our $67.0 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor (including 62% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 28% were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government) and 1% were from U.S. commercial and other customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cybersecurity. We operate in an environment characterized by both complexity in global security and continuing economic pressures in the U.S. and globally. A significant component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing security capability quickly into the hands of our U.S. and international customers at affordable prices. Recognizing that our customers are resource constrained, we place considerable focus on affordability initiatives while endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio domestically in a disciplined manner, with a focus on adjacent markets close to our core capabilities as well as growing our international sales. We invest substantially in our people to ensure we have the technical skills necessary to succeed, and we expect to continue to invest internally on innovative technologies that address rapidly evolving mission requirements for our customers. We will continue to invest in acquisitions, as appropriate, while deepening our connection to commercial industry through cooperative partnerships, joint ventures, and equity investments. We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Rotary and Mission Systems (RMS) and Space. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. Pending Acquisition of Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings, Inc. On December 20, 2020, we entered into an agreement to acquire Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings, Inc. (Aerojet Rocketdyne) for $51.00 per share, which is net of a $5.00 per share special cash dividend Aerojet Rocketdyne paid to its stockholders on March 24, 2021. At the time of announcement, this represented a post-dividend equity value of approximately $4.6 billion, on a fully diluted as-converted basis, and a transaction value of approximately $4.4 billion after the assumption of Aerojet Rocketdyne s then-projected net cash. The transaction was approved by Aerojet Rocketdyne s stockholders on March 9, 2021. As part of the regulatory review process of the transaction, on September 24, 2021, we and Aerojet Rocketdyne each certified substantial compliance with the Federal Trade Commission s (FTC) requests for additional information, known as a second request. On January 11, 2022, the parties provided an updated notice of their intended closing date under their timing agreement with the FTC, whereby the parties agreed that they would not close the transaction before January 27, 2022, to enable the parties to discuss the scope and nature of the merchant supply and firewall commitments previously offered to the FTC by Lockheed Martin. We have been advised by the FTC that its concerns regarding the transaction cannot be addressed adequately by the terms of a consent order. We believe it is highly likely that the FTC will vote to sue to block the transaction and expect they will make a decision before January 27, 2022. If the FTC sues to block the transaction, we could elect to defend the lawsuit within 30 days or terminate the merger agreement. If the FTC does not file a lawsuit to block the transaction before January 27, 2022, the parties could proceed to close the transaction, but there is no assurance that the FTC would not file a lawsuit challenging the transaction after the closing since the parties have not reached agreement on the terms of a consent order. Under the terms of the merger agreement, either party may terminate the transaction if it has not closed on or before March 21, 2022. See Item 1A - Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks related to the proposed transaction. Business Segments Aeronautics In 2021, our Aeronautics business segment generated net sales of $26.7 billion, which represented 40% of our total consolidated net sales. Aeronautics customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy, and various other government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2021, U.S. Government customers accounted for 65% and international customers accounted for 35% of Aeronautics net sales. Net sales from Aeronautics combat aircraft products and services represented 32% of our total consolidated net sales in 2021 and 2019, and 33% in 2020. 3 Table of Contents Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies. Aeronautics also has contracts with the U.S. Government for classified programs. Aeronautics major programs include: F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter - international multi-role, multi-variant, fifth generation stealth fighter; C-130 Hercules - international tactical airlifter; F-16 Fighting Falcon - low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter; and F-22 Raptor - air dominance and multi-role fifth generation stealth fighter. The F-35 program is our largest program, generating 27% of our total consolidated net sales, as well as 68% of Aeronautics net sales in 2021. The F-35 program consists of multiple development, production and sustainment contracts. Development is focused on modernization of F-35 s capability and addressing emerging threats. Sustainment provides logistics and training support for the aircraft delivered to F-35 customers. Production of the aircraft is expected to continue for many years given the U.S. Government s current inventory objective of 2,456 aircraft for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Navy; commitments from our seven international partner countries and six international customers; and expressions of interest from other countries. In 2021, we delivered 142 aircraft, including 68 to international customers, resulting in total deliveries of 753 production aircraft since program inception. This was an increase from the 120 aircraft delivered in 2020 when the production rate was tapered as a result of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) related delays. While the production rate in 2021 improved from its 2020 levels, it continued to be impacted by COVID-19. We anticipate delivering 148-153 aircraft in 2022. In 2023 and beyond, we anticipate delivering 156 aircraft for the foreseeable future. We have 230 aircraft in backlog as of December 31, 2021 extending into 2023, including orders from our international partner countries. For additional information on the F-35 program, see Status of the F 35 Program in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See also Item 1A - Risk Factors for a discussion of risks related to the F-35 program. Aeronautics produces and provides support and sustainment services for the C-130J Super Hercules, as well as upgrades and support services for the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet. We delivered 22 C-130J aircraft in 2021. We have 79 aircraft in our backlog as of December 31, 2021, extending into 2025. Aeronautics produces F-16 aircraft for international customers and continues to provide service-life extension, modernization and other upgrade programs for our customers F 16 aircraft, with existing contracts continuing for several years. As of December 31, 2021, we have 128 F-16 aircraft in backlog, extending into 2027. We continue to seek international opportunities to deliver additional aircraft. Aeronautics continues to provide modernization and sustainment activities for the U.S. Air Force s F-22 aircraft fleet. The modernization program comprises upgrading existing systems requirements, developing new systems requirements, adding capabilities and enhancing the performance of the weapon systems. The sustainment program consists of sustaining the weapon systems of the F-22 fleet, providing training systems, customer support, integrated support planning, supply chain management, aircraft modifications and heavy maintenance, systems engineering and support products. In addition to the aircraft programs discussed above, Aeronautics is involved in advanced development programs incorporating innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as Skunk Works , is focused on future systems, including unmanned and manned aerial systems and next generation capabilities for hypersonics, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion into our existing aircraft. We also are involved in numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness and we continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development and production. Missiles and Fire Control In 2021, our MFC business segment generated net sales of $11.7 billion, which represented 17% of our total consolidated net sales. MFC s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2021, U.S. Government customers accounted for 71% and international customers accounted for 29% of MFC s net sales. MFC provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon systems; logistics; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; manned and 4 Table of Contents unmanned ground vehicles; and energy management solutions. MFC also has contracts with the U.S. Government for various classified programs. MFC s major programs include: The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth s atmosphere. The Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Hellfire, and Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM) tactical missile programs. MLRS is a highly mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps and international customers. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. The Apache, Sniper Advanced Targeting Pod (SNIPER ) and Infrared Search and Track (IRST21 ) fire control systems programs. The Apache fire control system provides weapons targeting capability for the Apache helicopter for the U.S. Army and international customers. SNIPER is a targeting system for several fixed-wing aircraft and is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. IRST21 provides long-range infrared detection and tracking of airborne threats and is used on several fixed-wing aircraft. IRST21 is produced for the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Navy, the National Guard and international customers. The Special Operations Forces Global Logistics Support Services (SOF GLSS) program, which provides logistics support services to the special operations forces of the U.S. military. Hypersonics programs, which include several programs with the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army to design, develop and build hypersonic strike weapons. Rotary and Mission Systems In 2021, our RMS business segment generated net sales of $16.8 billion, which represented 25% of our total consolidated net sales. RMS customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Navy and Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2021, U.S. Government customers accounted for 70%, international customers accounted for 28% and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 2% of RMS net sales. Net sales from RMS Sikorsky helicopter programs represented 10% of our consolidated net sales in 2021, and 9% in 2020 and 2019. RMS also has contracts with the U.S. Government for classified programs. RMS designs, manufactures, services and supports various military and commercial helicopters, surface ships, sea and land-based missile defense systems, radar systems, sea and air-based mission and combat systems, command and control mission solutions, cyber solutions, and simulation and training solutions. RMS major programs include: Sikorsky programs such as those related to the Black Hawk and Seahawk helicopters which are in service with U.S. and foreign governments, the CH-53K King Stallion heavy lift helicopter serving the U.S. Marine Corps, the Combat Rescue Helicopter (CRH) utilized by the U.S. Air Force, and the VH-92A helicopter for the U.S. Marine One transport mission. Integrated warfare systems and sensors (IWSS) programs such as Aegis Combat System (Aegis) programs that serve as an air and missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea and land-based element of the U.S. missile defense system, and the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) and Multi-Mission Surface Combatant (MMSC) programs to provide surface combatant ships for the U.S. Navy and international customers that are designed to operate in shallow waters and the open ocean. Command, control, communications, computers, cyber, combat systems, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C6ISR) programs such as the Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) program to provide an air operations center for the Ballistic Missile Defense System for the U.S. Government, and undersea combat systems programs largely serving the U.S. Navy. Training and logistics solutions (TLS) programs such as those providing sustainment services and programs that provide simulators and associated training to U.S. military and foreign government customers. Space In 2021, our Space business segment generated net sales of $11.8 billion, which represented 18% of our total consolidated net sales. Space s customers include the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Space Force, U.S. Navy, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Missile Defense Agency (MDA) and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries along with commercial customers. In 2021, U.S. Government customers accounted for 92% and international customers 5 Table of Contents accounted for 8% of Space s net sales. Net sales from Space s satellite products and services represented 10% of our total consolidated net sales in 2021 and 11% in 2020 and 2019. As previously announced, on June 30, 2021 the UK Ministry of Defence terminated the contract to operate the UK s nuclear deterrent program and assumed control of the entity that manages the program (referred to as the renationalization of the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE program)). Accordingly, the AWE program, including the entity that manages the program, was no longer included in our financial results as of that date. Space is engaged in the research and development, design, engineering and production of satellites, space transportation systems, and strategic, advanced strike, and defensive systems. Space provides network-enabled situational awareness and integrates complex space and ground global systems to help our customers gather, analyze and securely distribute critical intelligence data. Space is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space s major programs include: The Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS) and Next Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR) system programs, which provide the U.S. Air Force with enhanced worldwide missile warning capabilities. The Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM), a program with the U.S. Navy for the only submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missile currently in production in the U.S. The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion), a spacecraft for NASA utilizing new technology for human exploration missions beyond low earth orbit. Global Positioning System (GPS) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Air Force. Hypersonics programs, which include several programs with the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy to design, develop and build hypersonic strike weapons. Next Generation Interceptor (NGI), a program with the MDA utilizing next generation propulsion and sensors to provide homeland missile defense. Intellectual Property We routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks related to the products and services we provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, we develop and own other intellectual property, including copyrights, trade secrets and research, development and engineering know-how, which contribute significantly to our business. We also license intellectual property to and from third parties. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) provide that the U.S. Government obtains certain rights in intellectual property, including patents, developed by us and our subcontractors and suppliers in performance of government contracts or with government funding. The U.S. Government may use or authorize others, including competitors, to use such intellectual property. See the discussion of matters related to our intellectual property within Item 1A - Risk Factors. Non-U.S. governments may also have certain rights in patents and other intellectual property developed in performance of our contracts for them. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Research and Development We conduct research and development (R D) activities using our own funds (referred to as company-funded R D or independent research and development (IR D)) and under contractual arrangements with our customers (referred to as customer-funded R D) to enhance existing products and services and to develop future technologies. R D costs include basic research, applied research, concept formulation studies, design, development, and related test activities. See Note 1 Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (under the caption Research and development and similar costs ) included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Raw Materials, Suppliers and Seasonality Some of our products require relatively scarce raw materials. Historically, we have been successful in obtaining the raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining an acceptable level of the key materials in inventories. Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space programs. Long-term agreements have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in composite materials used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35 aircraft. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in some commodities markets can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations may 6 Table of Contents negatively affect the price and availability of certain materials. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw materials and believe that we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these variations, if key materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs or reduced operating profits or cash flows. We rely on other companies to provide materials, major components and products, including advanced microelectronics such as semiconductors, and to perform a portion of the services that are provided to our customers under the terms of most of our contracts. A failure by one or more of these suppliers or subcontractors to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis, according to specifications, or at all, may affect our ability to perform our obligations. While we believe we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these risks, supplier disruptions, including as a result of COVID-19, could result in delays, increased costs, or reduced operating profits or cash flows. For more information on the risks related to our suppliers and raw materials, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our sales between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance. Human Capital Resources Due to the specialized nature of our business, our performance depends on identifying, attracting, developing, motivating and retaining a highly skilled workforce in multiple areas, including engineering, science, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, business development and strategy and management. Our human capital management strategy, which we refer to as our people strategy, is tightly aligned with our business needs and technology strategy. During 2021, our human capital efforts were focused on continuing to accelerate the transformation of our technology for workforce management through investments in upgraded systems and processes, and continuing to increase our agility to meet the quickly changing needs of the business, all while maintaining a respectful, challenging, supportive and inclusive working environment. We use a variety of human capital measures in managing our business, including: workforce demographics; hiring metrics; talent management metrics, including retention rates of top talent; and diversity metrics with respect to representation, attrition, hiring, promotions and leadership. Workforce Demographics As of December 31, 2021, we had a highly skilled workforce made up of approximately 114,000 employees, including approximately 59,000 engineers, scientists and information technology professionals. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 93% of our workforce was located in the U.S. and approximately 20% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities, and management considers employee and union relations to be good. Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and inclusion is a business imperative for us, as we believe that it is key to our future success. We have focused our diversity and inclusion initiatives on employee recruitment, including investments in minority-serving institutions and outreach, employee training and development, such as efforts focused on expanding the diverse talent pipeline, and employee engagement, including through participation in our employee Business Resource Groups. Our Business Resource Groups are voluntary, employee-led groups that are open to all employees while focusing on workplace issues specific to racial/ethnic, gender, sexual orientation/gender identity, disability or veteran status. The Business Resource Groups foster a diverse and inclusive workplace aligned with our organizational mission, values, goals and business practices and drive awareness and change within our organization. Through these and other focused efforts, we have improved the diversity of our overall U.S. workforce and within leadership positions, specifically in the representation of women, people of color and people with disabilities. Additionally, our representation of veterans remains outstanding, at almost four times the current annual national percentage of veterans in the civilian workforce. 7 Table of Contents Employee Profile (as of December 31, 2021): Women (a) People of Color (a) Veterans (a) People with Disabilities (a) Overall 23% 29% 21% 10% Executives (b) 23% 15% 20% 11% (a) Based on employees who self-identify. Includes only U.S. employees and expatriates except for women, which also includes local country nationals. Excludes casual workers, interns/co-ops and employees of certain subsidiaries and joint ventures. (b) Executive is defined as director-level (one level below vice president) or higher. Talent Acquisition, Retention and Development We strive to hire, develop and retain the top talent in the industry. During 2021, we hired more than 10,000 employees, despite the continuing challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. An integral part of our people strategy is early career hiring through college and intern pipelines, particularly in technical fields. In addition to efforts focused on recruitment, we also monitor employee attrition across a broad array of categories and segments of the population, including with respect to diversity and top talent. Critical to attracting and retaining top talent is employee satisfaction, and we regularly conduct employee engagement surveys to gauge employee satisfaction and to understand the effectiveness of our people strategy. We attract and reward our employees by providing market competitive compensation and benefit practices, including incentives and recognition plans that extend to nonrepresented employees of all levels in our organization and encourage excellence through our pay-for-performance philosophy. We also have continued a teleworking policy that encourages flexible working arrangements for employees who can meet our customer commitments remotely, which we believe helps recruit and retain talent. In addition, we invest in the development of our employees through training, apprenticeship programs, leadership development plans and offering tuition assistance programs for continuing education or industry certifications. This employee development helps to make us more competitive and also assists with leadership succession planning throughout the corporation. Employee Safety and Health Our safety and health program seeks to optimize our operations through targeted safety, health and wellness opportunities designed to ensure safe work conditions, a healthy work environment, promote workforce resiliency and enhance business value. As part of this program, we track employee health and safety measures, including quarterly and yearly targets related to the number of injury and illness incidents that occur at work, those incidents that result in days lost, and the number of days lost due to workplace injuries and illness. During 2021, these metrics continued to be negatively impacted by the absence from work and delays in the return to work related to COVID-19. We continue to take steps to protect our employees from C