Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 Information About Executive Officers 20 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Alliant Energy Corporation 40 Interstate Power and Light Company 46 Wisconsin Power and Light Company 51 Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 56 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 56 2. Regulatory Matters 62 3. Property, Plant and Equipment 65 4. Jointly-owned Electric Utility Plant 66 5. Receivables 66 6. Investments 67 7. Common Equity 68 8. Preferred Stock 69 9. Debt 69 10. Leases 71 11. Revenues 72 12. Income Taxes 73 13. Benefit Plans 75 14. Asset Retirement Obligations 85 15. Derivative Instruments 86 16. Fair Value Measurements 87 17. Commitments and Contingencies 89 18. Segments of Business 92 19. Related Parties 94 20. Selected Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 95 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 96 Item 9B. Other Information 98 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 98 Item 11. Executive Compensation 98 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 98 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 99 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 99 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 100 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 105 Signatures 106 DEFINITIONS The following abbreviations or acronyms used in this report are defined below: Abbreviation or Acronym Definition Abbreviation or Acronym Definition 2020 Alliant Energy Proxy Statement Alliant Energy s Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareowners FWEC Forward Wind Energy Center AEF Alliant Energy Finance, LLC GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction GHG Greenhouse gases Alliant Energy Alliant Energy Corporation IPL Interstate Power and Light Company ARO Asset retirement obligation IRS Internal Revenue Service ATC American Transmission Company LLC ITC ITC Midwest LLC ATC Holdings Interest in American Transmission Company LLC and ATC Holdco LLC IUB Iowa Utilities Board ATI AE Transco Investments, LLC KWh Kilowatt-hour CA Certificate of authority Marshalltown Marshalltown Generating Station CAA Clean Air Act MDA Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CCR Coal combustion residuals MGP Manufactured gas plant CO2 Carbon dioxide MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. Corporate Services Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc. MW Megawatt CPCN Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity MWh Megawatt-hour CWIP Construction work in progress N/A Not applicable DAEC Duane Arnold Energy Center Note(s) Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements DCP Alliant Energy Deferred Compensation Plan OIP Alliant Energy 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan DLIP Alliant Energy Director Long Term Incentive Plan OPEB Other postretirement benefits Dth Dekatherm PPA Purchased power agreement EEP Energy efficiency plan PSCW Public Service Commission of Wisconsin EGU Electric generating unit Receivables Agreement Receivables Purchase and Sale Agreement EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency RES Renewable energy standards EPS Earnings per weighted average common share Riverside Riverside Energy Center FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Federal Tax Reform Tax Cuts and Jobs Act U.S. United States of America FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission VEBA Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements VIE Variable interest entity FTR Financial transmission right Whiting Petroleum Whiting Petroleum Corporation Fuel-related Electric production fuel and purchased power WPL Wisconsin Power and Light Company FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not of historical fact are forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified as such because the statements include words such as may, believe, expect, anticipate, plan, project, will, projections, estimate, or other words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe future financial performance or plans or strategies are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such statements. Some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties of Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL that could materially affect actual results include: 1 IPL s and WPL s ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief to allow for, among other things, the recovery of and/or the return on costs, including fuel costs, operating costs, transmission costs, deferred expenditures, deferred tax assets, tax expense, capital expenditures, and remaining costs related to EGUs that may be permanently closed and certain other retired assets, earning their authorized rates of return, and the payments to their parent of expected levels of dividends; federal and state regulatory or governmental actions, including the impact of legislation, and regulatory agency orders; the impact of customer- and third party-owned generation, including alternative electric suppliers, in IPL s and WPL s service territories on system reliability, operating expenses and customers demand for electricity; the impact of energy efficiency, franchise retention and customer disconnects on sales volumes and margins; the impact that price changes may have on IPL s and WPL s customers demand for electric, gas and steam services and their ability to pay their bills; the ability to utilize tax credits and net operating losses generated to date, and those that may be generated in the future, before they expire; the direct or indirect effects resulting from terrorist incidents, including physical attacks and cyber attacks, or responses to such incidents; the impact of penalties or third-party claims related to, or in connection with, a failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, including associated costs to notify affected persons and to mitigate their information security concerns; any material post-closing payments related to any past asset divestitures, including the sale of Whiting Petroleum, which could result from, among other things, indemnification agreements, warranties, parental guarantees or litigation; employee workforce factors, including changes in key executives, ability to hire and retain employees with specialized skills, ability to create desired corporate culture, collective bargaining agreements and negotiations, work stoppages or restructurings; weather effects on results of utility operations; issues associated with environmental remediation and environmental compliance, including compliance with all environmental and emissions permits, the CCR rule, future changes in environmental laws and regulations, including federal, state or local regulations for CO2 emissions reductions from new and existing fossil-fueled EGUs, and litigation associated with environmental requirements; increased pressure from customers, investors and other stakeholders to more rapidly reduce CO2 emissions; the ability to defend against environmental claims brought by state and federal agencies, such as the EPA, state natural resources agencies or third parties, such as the Sierra Club, and the impact on operating expenses of defending and resolving such claims; continued access to the capital markets on competitive terms and rates, and the actions of credit rating agencies; inflation and interest rates; the impact of the economy in IPL s and WPL s service territories and the resulting impacts on sales volumes, margins and the ability to collect unpaid bills; the ability to complete construction of wind and solar projects within the cost caps set by regulators and to meet all requirements to qualify for the full level of production tax credits and investment tax credits, respectively; changes in the price of delivered natural gas, purchased electricity and coal due to shifts in supply and demand caused by market conditions and regulations; disruptions in the supply and delivery of natural gas, purchased electricity and coal; the direct or indirect effects resulting from breakdown or failure of equipment in the operation of electric and gas distribution systems, such as mechanical problems and explosions or fires, and compliance with electric and gas transmission and distribution safety regulations, including regulations promulgated by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration; issues related to the availability and operations of EGUs, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, operator error, employee safety, transmission constraints, compliance with mandatory reliability standards and risks related to recovery of resulting incremental costs through rates; impacts that excessive heat, storms or natural disasters may have on Alliant Energy s, IPL s and WPL s operations and recovery of costs associated with restoration activities, or on the operations of Alliant Energy s investments; Alliant Energy s ability to sustain its dividend payout ratio goal; changes to costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of pension and OPEB plans due to the market value of the assets that fund the plans, economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, life expectancies and demographics; material changes in employee-related benefit and compensation costs; risks associated with operation and ownership of non-utility holdings; changes in technology that alter the channels through which customers buy or utilize Alliant Energy s, IPL s or WPL s products and services; 2 impacts on equity income from unconsolidated investments due to further potential changes to ATC s authorized return on equity; impacts of IPL s future tax benefits from Iowa rate-making practices, including deductions for repairs expenditures, allocation of mixed service costs and state depreciation, and recoverability of the associated regulatory assets from customers, when the differences reverse in future periods; the impacts of adjustments made to deferred tax assets and liabilities from changes in the tax laws; changes to the creditworthiness of counterparties with which Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; current or future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries; reputational damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, penalties and other negative consequences resulting in regulatory and/or legal actions; the effect of accounting standards issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; the ability to successfully complete tax audits and changes in tax accounting methods with no material impact on earnings and cash flows; and other factors listed in MDA and