Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1 C . Cybe r s ec urity 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Information About Executive Officers 25 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserv ed ] 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Alliant Energy Corporation 45 Interstate Power and Light Company 51 Wisconsin Power and Light Company 57 Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 63 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 63 2. Regulatory Matters 68 3. Property, Plant and Equipment 71 4. Jointly-owned Electric Utility Plant 73 5. Receivables 73 6. Investments 74 7. Common Equity 75 8. Preferred Stock 75 9. Debt 75 10. Leases 78 11. Revenues 79 12. Income Taxes 80 13. Benefit Plans 82 14. Asset Retirement Obligations 91 15. Derivative Instruments 91 16. Fair Value Measurements 92 17. Commitments and Contingencies 94 18. Segments of Business 97 19. Related Parties 99 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 99 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 100 Item 9B. Other Information 102 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 102 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 102 Item 11. Executive Compensation 102 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 102 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 103 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 103 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 104 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 109 Signatures 110 Table of C o ntents DEFINITIONS The following abbreviations or acronyms used in this report are defined below: Abbreviation or Acronym Definition Abbreviation or Acronym Definition 2024 Alliant Energy Proxy Statement Alliant Energy s Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareowners GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles AEF Alliant Energy Finance, LLC GHG Greenhouse gases AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction IPL Interstate Power and Light Company Alliant Energy Alliant Energy Corporation IRS Internal Revenue Service ARO Asset retirement obligation ITC ITC Midwest LLC ATC American Transmission Company LLC IUB Iowa Utilities Board ATC Holdings Interest in American Transmission Company LLC and ATC Holdco LLC KWh Kilowatt-hour ATI AE Transco Investments, LLC MDA Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CA Certificate of authority MGP Manufactured gas plant CAA Clean Air Act MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. CCR Coal combustion residuals MW Megawatt CO2 Carbon dioxide MWh Megawatt-hour Corporate Services Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc. N/A Not applicable CPCN Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity Note(s) Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements CSAPR Cross-State Air Pollution Rule OIP Alliant Energy Omnibus Incentive Plan CWIP Construction work in progress OPEB Other postretirement benefits DAEC Duane Arnold Energy Center PPA Purchased power agreement DCP Alliant Energy Deferred Compensation Plan PSCW Public Service Commission of Wisconsin Dth Dekatherm Receivables Agreement Receivables Purchase and Sale Agreement EGU Electric generating unit SEC Securities and Exchange Commission EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency U.S. United States of America EPS Earnings per weighted average common share VEBA Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission VIE Variable interest entity Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements West Riverside West Riverside Energy Center and Solar Facility FTR Financial transmission right Whiting Petroleum Whiting Petroleum Corporation Fuel-related Electric production fuel and purchased power WPL Wisconsin Power and Light Company FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not of historical fact are forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified as such because the statements include words such as may, believe, expect, anticipate, plan, project, will, projections, estimate, or other words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe future financial performance or plans or strategies are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such statements. Some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties of Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL that could materially affect actual results include: the direct or indirect effects resulting from cybersecurity incidents or attacks on Alliant Energy, IPL, WPL, or their suppliers, contractors and partners, or responses to such incidents; the impact of customer- and third party-owned generation, including alternative electric suppliers, in IPL s and WPL s service territories on system reliability, operating expenses and customers demand for electricity; economic conditions in IPL s and WPL s service territories; the impact of energy efficiency, franchise retention and customer disconnects on sales volumes and operating income; the impact that price changes may have on IPL s and WPL s customers demand for electric, gas and steam services and their ability to pay their bills; changes in the price of delivered natural gas, transmission, purchased electricity and delivered coal, particularly during elevated market prices, and any resulting changes to counterparty credit risk, due to shifts in supply and demand caused by market conditions, regulations and MISO s seasonal resource adequacy process; IPL s and WPL s ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief to allow for, among other things, the recovery of and/or the return on costs, including fuel costs, operating costs, transmission costs, capacity costs, deferred expenditures, deferred tax assets, tax expense, interest expense, capital expenditures, and remaining costs related to EGUs that may be permanently closed and certain other retired assets, decreases in sales volumes, earning their authorized rates of return, and the payments to their parent of expected levels of dividends; 1 Table of C o ntents the ability to obtain deferral treatment for the recovery of and a return on prudently incurred costs in between rate reviews; the ability to obtain regulatory approval for construction projects with acceptable conditions; the ability to complete construction of renewable generation and storage projects by planned in-service dates and within the cost targets set by regulators due to cost increases of and access to materials, equipment and commodities, which could result from tariffs, duties or other assessments, such as any additional tariffs resulting from U.S. Department of Commerce investigations into and any decisions made regarding the sourcing of solar project materials and equipment from certain countries, labor issues or supply shortages, the ability to successfully resolve warranty issues or contract disputes, the ability to achieve the expected level of tax benefits based on tax guidelines, project costs and the level of electricity output generated by qualifying generating facilities, and the ability to efficiently utilize the renewable generation and storage project tax benefits for the benefit of customers; WPL s ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief to allow for the recovery of and/or the return on costs of solar generation projects that exceed initial cost estimates; the impacts of changes in the tax code, including tax rates, minimum tax rates, adjustments made to deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes impacting the availability of and ability to transfer renewable tax credits; the ability to utilize tax credits generated to date, and those that may be generated in the future, before they expire, as well as the ability to transfer tax credits that may be generated in the future at adequate pricing; disruptions to ongoing operations and the supply of materials, services, equipment and commodities needed to construct solar generation, battery storage and electric and gas distribution projects, which may result from geopolitical issues, supplier manufacturing constraints, labor issues or transportation issues, and thus affect the ability to meet capacity requirements and result in increased capacity expense; inflation and higher interest rates; the future development of technologies related to electrification, and the ability to reliably store and manage electricity; federal and state regulatory or governmental actions, including the impact of legislation, and regulatory agency orders and changes in public policy; employee workforce factors, including the ability to hire and retain employees with specialized skills, impacts from employee retirements, changes in key executives, ability to create desired corporate culture, collective bargaining agreements and negotiations, work stoppages or restructurings; disruptions in the supply and delivery of natural gas, purchased electricity and coal; weather effects on utility sales volumes and operations; changes to the creditworthiness of, or performance of obligations by, counterparties with which Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; the impact of penalties or third-party claims related to, or in connection with, a failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, including associated costs to notify affected persons and to mitigate their information security concerns; impacts that terrorist attacks may have on Alliant Energy s, IPL s and WPL s operations and recovery of costs associated with restoration activities, or on the operations of Alliant Energy s investments; any material post-closing payments related to any past asset divestitures, including the transfer of renewable tax credits and the sale of Whiting Petroleum, which could result from, among other things, indemnification agreements, warranties, guarantees or litigation; continued access to the capital markets on competitive terms and rates, and the actions of credit rating agencies; changes to MISO s resource adequacy process establishing capacity planning reserve margin and capacity accreditation requirements that may impact how and when new and existing generating facilities, including IPL s and WPL s additional solar generation, may be accredited with energy capacity, and may require IPL and WPL to adjust their current resource plans, to add resources to meet the requirements of MISO s process, or procure capacity in the market whereby such costs might not be recovered in rates; issues associated with environmental remediation and environmental compliance, including compliance with all environmental and emissions permits and future changes in environmental laws and regulations, including the CCR rule, CSAPR and federal, state or local regulations for GHG emissions reductions from new and existing fossil-fueled EGUs under the CAA, and litigation associated with environmental requirements; increased pressure from customers, investors and other stakeholders to more rapidly reduce GHG emissions; the ability to defend against environmental claims brought by state and federal agencies, such as the EPA and state natural resources agencies, or third parties, such as the Sierra Club, and the impact on operating expenses of defending and resolving such claims; the direct or indirect effects resulting from breakdown or failure of equipment in the operation of electric and gas distribution systems, such as mechanical problems and explosions or fires, and compliance with electric and gas transmission and distribution safety regulations, including regulations promulgated by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration; issues related to the availability and operations of EGUs, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, availability of warranty coverage and successful resolution of warranty issues or contract disputes for equipment breakdowns or failures, performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, operator error, employee safety, transmission constraints, compliance with mandatory reliability standards and risks related to recovery of resulting incremental operating, fuel-related and capital costs through rates; impacts that excessive heat, excessive cold, storms, wildfires, or natural disasters may have on Alliant Energy s, IPL s and WPL s operations and construction activities, and recovery of costs associated with restoration activities, or on the operations of Alliant Energy s investments; 2 Table of C o ntents Alliant Energy s ability to sustain its dividend payout ratio goal; changes to costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of pension and OPEB plans due to the market value of the assets that fund the plans, economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, timing and form of benefits payments, life expectancies and demographics; material changes in employee-related benefit and compensation costs, including settlement losses related to pension plans; risks associated with operation and ownership of non-utility holdings; changes in technology that alter the channels through which customers buy or utilize Alliant Energy s, IPL s or WPL s products and services; impacts on equity income from unconsolidated investments from changes in valuations of the assets held, as well as potential changes to ATC s authorized return on equity; impacts of IPL s future tax benefits from Iowa rate-making practices, including deductions for repairs expenditures, allocation of mixed service costs and state depreciation, and recoverability of the associated regulatory assets from customers, when the differences reverse in future periods; current or future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries; reputational damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, penalties and other negative consequences resulting in regulatory and/or legal actions; the direct or indirect effects resulting from pandemics; the effect of accounting standards issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; the ability to successfully complete tax audits and changes in tax accounting methods with no material impact on earnings and cash flows; and other factors listed in MDA and