Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Information About Executive Officers 23 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [ Reser ved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Alliant Energy Corporation 41 Interstate Power and Light Company 47 Wisconsin Power and Light Company 53 Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 59 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 59 2. Regulatory Matters 65 3. Property, Plant and Equipment 68 4. Jointly-owned Electric Utility Plant 69 5. Receivables 69 6. Investments 70 7. Common Equity 71 8. Preferred Stock 71 9. Debt 71 10. Leases 73 11. Revenues 74 12. Income Taxes 75 13. Benefit Plans 77 14. Asset Retirement Obligations 86 15. Derivative Instruments 86 16. Fair Value Measurements 87 17. Commitments and Contingencies 90 18. Segments of Business 92 19. Related Parties 94 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 94 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 95 Item 9B. Other Information 97 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 97 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 97 Item 11. Executive Compensation 97 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 97 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 98 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 98 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 99 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 103 Signatures 104 Table of Contents DEFINITIONS The following abbreviations or acronyms used in this report are defined below: Abbreviation or Acronym Definition Abbreviation or Acronym Definition 2022 Alliant Energy Proxy Statement Alliant Energy s Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareowners Fuel-related Electric production fuel and purchased power AEF Alliant Energy Finance, LLC GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction GHG Greenhouse gases Alliant Energy Alliant Energy Corporation IPL Interstate Power and Light Company ARO Asset retirement obligation IRS Internal Revenue Service ATC American Transmission Company LLC ITC ITC Midwest LLC ATC Holdings Interest in American Transmission Company LLC and ATC Holdco LLC IUB Iowa Utilities Board ATI AE Transco Investments, LLC KWh Kilowatt-hour CA Certificate of authority Marshalltown Marshalltown Generating Station CAA Clean Air Act MDA Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CCR Coal combustion residuals MGP Manufactured gas plant CO2 Carbon dioxide MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. Corporate Services Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc. MW Megawatt COVID-19 Novel coronavirus MWh Megawatt-hour CPCN Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity N/A Not applicable CWIP Construction work in progress Note(s) Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements DAEC Duane Arnold Energy Center OIP Alliant Energy Omnibus Incentive Plan DCP Alliant Energy Deferred Compensation Plan OPEB Other postretirement benefits DLIP Alliant Energy Director Long Term Incentive Plan PPA Purchased power agreement Dth Dekatherm PSCW Public Service Commission of Wisconsin EEP Energy efficiency plan Receivables Agreement Receivables Purchase and Sale Agreement EGU Electric generating unit Riverside Riverside Energy Center EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SEC Securities and Exchange Commission EPS Earnings per weighted average common share U.S. United States of America Federal Tax Reform Tax Cuts and Jobs Act VEBA Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission VIE Variable interest entity Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Whiting Petroleum Whiting Petroleum Corporation FTR Financial transmission right WPL Wisconsin Power and Light Company FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not of historical fact are forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified as such because the statements include words such as may, believe, expect, anticipate, plan, project, will, projections, estimate, or other words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe future financial performance or plans or strategies are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such statements. Some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties of Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL that could materially affect actual results include: the impact of penalties or third-party claims related to, or in connection with, a failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, including associated costs to notify affected persons and to mitigate their information security concerns; the direct or indirect effects resulting from terrorist incidents, including physical attacks and cyber attacks, or responses to such incidents; the impact of customer- and third party-owned generation, including alternative electric suppliers, in IPL s and WPL s service territories on system reliability, operating expenses and customers demand for electricity; the impact of energy efficiency, franchise retention and customer disconnects on sales volumes and margins; the impact that price changes may have on IPL s and WPL s customers demand for electric, gas and steam services and their ability to pay their bills; 1 Table of Contents IPL s and WPL s ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief to allow for, among other things, the recovery of and/or the return on costs, including fuel costs, operating costs, transmission costs, deferred expenditures, deferred tax assets, tax expense, capital expenditures, and remaining costs related to EGUs that may be permanently closed and certain other retired assets, decreases in sales volumes, earning their authorized rates of return, and the payments to their parent of expected levels of dividends; federal and state regulatory or governmental actions, including the impact of legislation, and regulatory agency orders; the ability to utilize tax credits and net operating losses generated to date, and those that may be generated in the future, before they expire; the impacts of changes in the tax code, including tax rates, minimum tax rates, and adjustments made to deferred tax assets and liabilities; the ability to complete construction of renewable generation and storage projects within the cost targets set by regulators due to cost increases of materials, equipment and commodities including due to tariffs, labor issues or supply shortages, the ability to successfully resolve warranty issues or contract disputes, the ability to achieve the expected level of tax benefits based on tax guidelines and project costs, and the ability to efficiently utilize the renewable generation and storage project tax benefits for the benefit of customers; employee workforce factors, including changes in key executives, ability to hire and retain employees with specialized skills, ability to create desired corporate culture, collective bargaining agreements and negotiations, work stoppages or restructurings; any material post-closing payments related to any past asset divestitures, including the sale of Whiting Petroleum, which could result from, among other things, indemnification agreements, warranties, guarantees or litigation; weather effects on results of utility operations; the direct or indirect effects resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the spread of variant strains, including any vaccine mandates and testing requirements, on sales volumes, margins, operations, employees, labor markets, contractors, vendors, the ability to complete construction projects, supply chains, customers inability to pay bills, suspension of disconnects, the market value of the assets that fund pension plans and the potential for additional funding requirements, the ability of counterparties to meet their obligations, compliance with regulatory requirements, the ability to implement regulatory plans, economic conditions and access to capital markets; issues associated with environmental remediation and environmental compliance, including compliance with all environmental and emissions permits, the CCR rule, future changes in environmental laws and regulations, including federal, state or local regulations for CO2 emissions reductions from new and existing fossil-fueled EGUs, and litigation associated with environmental requirements; increased pressure from customers, investors and other stakeholders to more rapidly reduce CO2 emissions; the ability to defend against environmental claims brought by state and federal agencies, such as the EPA, state natural resources agencies or third parties, such as the Sierra Club, and the impact on operating expenses of defending and resolving such claims; continued access to the capital markets on competitive terms and rates, and the actions of credit rating agencies; inflation and interest rates; disruptions to the supply of materials, equipment and commodities needed to construct solar generation and storage projects, including due to shortages, labor issues or transportation issues, which may impact the ability to meet capacity requirements and result in increased capacity expense; possible changes to MISO s methodology establishing capacity planning reserve margin and capacity accreditation requirements that may impact how and when new generating facilities such as IPL s and WPL s additional solar generation may be accredited with energy capacity and may require IPL and WPL to adjust their current resource plans, the need to add resources to comply with MISO s proposal, or procure capacity in the market whereby such costs might not be recovered in rates; changes in the price of delivered natural gas, transmission, purchased electricity and coal due to shifts in supply and demand caused by market conditions and regulations; disruptions in the supply and delivery of natural gas, purchased electricity and coal; the direct or indirect effects resulting from breakdown or failure of equipment in the operation of electric and gas distribution systems, such as mechanical problems and explosions or fires, and compliance with electric and gas transmission and distribution safety regulations, including regulations promulgated by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration; issues related to the availability and operations of EGUs, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, availability of warranty coverage for equipment breakdowns or failures; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, operator error, employee safety, transmission constraints, compliance with mandatory reliability standards and risks related to recovery of resulting incremental costs through rates; impacts that excessive heat, excessive cold, storms or natural disasters may have on Alliant Energy s, IPL s and WPL s operations and recovery of costs associated with restoration activities or on the operations of Alliant Energy s investments; Alliant Energy s ability to sustain its dividend payout ratio goal; changes to costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of pension and OPEB plans due to the market value of the assets that fund the plans, economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, timing and form of benefits payments, life expectancies and demographics; material changes in employee-related benefit and compensation costs; risks associated with operation and ownership of non-utility holdings; 2 Table of Contents changes in technology that alter the channels through which customers buy or utilize Alliant Energy s, IPL s or WPL s products and services; impacts on equity income from unconsolidated investments from valuations and potential changes to ATC s authorized return on equity; impacts of IPL s future tax benefits from Iowa rate-making practices, including deductions for repairs expenditures, allocation of mixed service costs and state depreciation, and recoverability of the associated regulatory assets from customers, when the differences reverse in future periods; changes to the creditworthiness of counterparties with which Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; current or future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries; reputational damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, penalties and other negative consequences resulting in regulatory and/or legal actions; the effect of accounting standards issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; the ability to successfully complete tax audits and changes in tax accounting methods with no material impact on earnings and cash flows; and other factors listed in MDA and