Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 Information About Our Executive Officers 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 20 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 76 Item 9B. Other Information 76 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 77 Item 11. Executive Compensation 77 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 77 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 77 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 77 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 78 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 87 Signatures 88 Table of Contents DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as believe , expect , anticipate , plan , desire , project , estimate , intend , will , should , could , would , may , strategy , potential , opportunity and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, expectations, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results, Lowe s plans, objectives, business outlook, priorities, expectations and intentions, expectations for sales growth, comparable sales, earnings and performance, shareholder value, capital expenditures, cash flows, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, share repurchases, Lowe s strategic initiatives, including those relating to acquisitions and dispositions by Lowe s and the expected impact of such transactions on our strategic and operational plans and financial results, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing and other statements that are not historical facts. Although we believe that the expectations, opinions, projections and comments reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements involve risks and uncertainties and we can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. For a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read Item 1A , Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section and in Item 1A, Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this Annual Report. 4 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 - Business General Information Lowe s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe s) is a Fortune 50 company and the world s second largest home improvement retailer. As of January 31, 2020 , Lowe s operated 1,977 home improvement and hardware stores, representing approximately 208 million square feet of retail selling space. These operations included 1,728 stores located across 50 U.S. states, as well as 249 stores in Canada. During 2018 and 2019, the Company initiated a strategic reassessment of its business which has resulted in the exit of Orchard Supply Hardware and its operations in Mexico, as well as the closure of under-performing stores across the U.S. and Canada. The Canadian stores include RONA inc. (RONA) which was acquired by Lowe s in 2016. RONA operates 185 stores in Canada as of January 31, 2020 , as well as services approximately 237 dealer-owned stores. The RONA stores represent various complementary store formats operating under various banners. Lowe s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol LOW . See Item 6 , Selected Financial Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report), for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7 , Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Annual Report. Customers, Market and Competition Our Customers We serve homeowners, renters, and professional customers (Pro customers). Individual homeowners and renters complete a wide array of projects and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). The Pro customer consists of two broad categories: construction trades; and maintenance, repair operations. Our Market The U.S. market remains our predominant market, accounting for approximately 93% of consolidated sales for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 . We are among the many businesses, including home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, whose revenues are included in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers Subsector (444) of the Retail Trade Sector of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy. NAICS 444 represents roughly half of what we consider the total U.S. market for our products and services. The broader market in which Lowe s operates includes home-related sales through a variety of companies beyond those in NAICS 444. These consist of other companies in the retail sector, including mass retailers, home goods specialty stores, and online retailers, as well as wholesalers that provide home-related products and services to homeowners, businesses, and the government. There are many variables that affect consumer demand for the home improvement products and services Lowe s offers. Key indicators we monitor include real disposable personal income, employment, home prices, and housing turnover. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that shape home improvement industry growth. Our Competition The home improvement industry includes a broad competitive landscape that continues to evolve. Lowe s competes with national and international home improvement warehouse chains and lumber yards in most of the markets we serve. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical, home supply retailers, and maintenance and repair organizations. In addition, we compete with general merchandise retailers, warehouse clubs, online, and other specialty retailers as well as service providers that install home improvement products. Location of stores, product assortment, product pricing and customer service continue to be key competitive factors in our industry, while the evolution of technology and customer 5 Table of Contents expectations also underscores the importance of omni-channel capabilities as a competitive factor. To ensure ongoing competitiveness, Lowe s focuses on delivering the right home improvement products, with the best service and value, across every channel and community we serve. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A , Risk Factors , of this Annual Report. Products and Services Our Products Product Selection To meet customers varying needs, we offer a complete line of products for construction, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and decorating. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Appliances, D cor, Paint, Hardware, Millwork, Lawn Garden, Lighting, Lumber Building Materials, Flooring, Kitchens Bath, Rough Plumbing Electrical, Seasonal Outdoor Living, and Tools. A typical Lowe s-branded home improvement store stocks approximately 35,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of additional items available through our Special Order Sales system and various online selling channels. See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise complemented by our selection of private brands. In addition, we are dedicated to ensuring the products we sell are sourced in a socially responsible, efficient, and cost-effective manner. National Brand-Name Merchandise In many product categories, customers look for a familiar and trusted national brand to instill confidence in their purchase. Lowe s home improvement stores carry a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise such as Whirlpool , GE , LG , and Samsung appliances, Stainmaster carpets, Sherwin-Williams and Valspar paints and stains, Pella windows and doors, Pergo hardwood flooring, DeWALT power tools, Metabo pneumatic tools, Weber and Char-Broil grills, Owens Corning insulation and roofing, GAF roofing, James Hardie fiber cement siding, Marshalltown masonry tools and concrete, Husqvarna outdoor power equipment, John Deere riding lawn mowers, Werner ladders, Quoizel lighting, Nest products, SharkBite plumbing products, A. O. Smith water heaters, Norton abrasives, and many more. In 2019, we completed our rollout of CRAFTSMAN tools. Our merchandise selection provides the retail and Pro customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand-name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance, or construction projects. Private Brands Private brands are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to increase customer loyalty, drive sales, and expand differentiation. We have a strong private brand presence across core categories, including some of our most valuable brands such as: Kobalt tools, allen+roth home d cor products, Project Source high-value project completers, Holiday Living seasonal products, Harbor Breeze ceiling fans, Sta-Green lawn and garden products, Moxie cleaning products, Reliabilt doors, windows, and hardware, and Utilitech electrical and utility products. Supply Chain We source our products from vendors worldwide and believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin. To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate distribution facilities that enable products to be received from vendors, stored and picked, or cross-docked, and then shipped to our retail locations or directly to customers. These facilities include 15 regional distribution centers (RDC) and 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDC) in the United States. The FDCs distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, pipe, siding, ladders, and building materials. On average, each RDC and FDC serves approximately 115 stores. We also own and operate seven distribution centers, including four lumber yards, to serve our Canadian market. In addition to the RDCs and FDCs, we also operate coastal holding and transload facilities to handle import product, bulk distribution centers (BDC) to handle appliances and other big and bulky product, cross-dock delivery terminals (XDT) to fulfill final mile box truck deliveries, and a direct fulfillment center focused on parcel post eligible products. In fiscal 2019 , we enhanced our distribution network by adding four XDTs and two BDCs, in addition to relocating one BDC. 6 Table of Contents Collectively, our facilities enable our import and e-commerce, as well as parcel post eligible products, to get to their destination as efficiently as possible. Most parcel post items can be ordered by a customer and delivered within two business days at standard shipping rates. In fiscal 2019 , on average, approximately 75% of the total dollar amount of merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to our stores from vendors. Our Services Installed Sales We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Appliances, Flooring, Kitchens Bath, Lumber Building Materials, and Millwork accounting for the majority of installed sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 6% of total sales in fiscal 2019 . Extended Protection Plans and Repair Services We offer extended protection plans for various products within the Appliances, Kitchens Bath, D cor, Millwork, Rough Plumbing Electrical, Seasonal Outdoor Living, Tools, and Hardware categories. These protection plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends coverage offered by the manufacturer s warranty and provides additional customer-friendly benefits that go beyond the scope of a manufacturer s warranty. The protection plans provide in-warranty benefits and out-of-warranty repair services for major appliances, outdoor power equipment, tools, grills, fireplaces, air conditioners, water heaters, and other eligible products through our stores or in the home through the Lowe s Authorized Service Repair Network. We offer replacement plans for products in most of these categories when priced below $300, or otherwise specified category-specific price points. Our contact center takes customers calls, assesses the problems, and facilitates resolutions, making after-sales service easier for our customers by managing the entire process. Selling Channels We are continuing to enhance our omni-channel capabilities, which allows our customers to move from channel to channel with simple and seamless transitions even within the same transaction. For example, for many projects, more than half of our customers conduct research online before making an in-store purchase. For purchases made on Lowes.com, customers may pick up their purchase in-store, have their purchase delivered from a store, or have their purchase parcel shipped. In addition, flexible fulfillment options are available for in-store purchases and those made through the contact center. Regardless of the channels through which customers choose to engage with us, we strive to provide them with a seamless experience across channels and an endless aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities. Our ability to sell products in-store, online, on-site, or through our contact centers speaks to our ability to leverage our existing infrastructure with the omni-channel capabilities we continue to introduce. In-Store Our 1,792 Lowe s-branded home improvement stores, inclusive of 1,728 in the U.S. and 64 in Canada, are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. The 185 RONA stores operate under various complementary store formats that address target customers and occasions. Our home improvement stores in the U.S. and Canada offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on local market factors. We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and to integrate our order management and fulfillment processes. Our home improvement stores have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with internet access, making information available quickly to further simplify the shopping experience. Online Through our websites and mobile applications, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience, online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and other information. These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them increased confidence to undertake home improvement projects. We enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store, as well as delivery or parcel shipment to their homes. On-Site We have on-site specialists available for retail and Pro customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects. Our Pro Sales Managers meet with Pro customers at their place of business or on a job site and leverage nearby stores 7 Table of Contents and our distribution network to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources. In addition, our Project Specialist Exteriors (PSE) program is available in a majority of U.S. Lowe s home improvement stores to discuss exterior projects such as roofing, siding, fencing, and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. Contact Centers Lowe s operates three contact centers which are located in Wilkesboro, NC; Albuquerque, NM; and Indianapolis, IN. These contact centers help Lowe s enable an omni-channel customer experience by providing the ability to tender sales, coordinate deliveries, manage after-sale installations, facilitate repair services for Appliances and Outdoor Power Equipment, and answer general customer questions via phone, mail, e-mail, live chat, and social media. Employees As of January 31, 2020 , we employed approximately 200,000 full-time and 120,000 part-time employees. Certain employees in Canada are subject to collective bargaining agreements. No other employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with employees to be good. Seasonality and Working Capital The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June, and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December, and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7 , Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Annual Report. Intellectual Property The name Lowe s is a registered service mark of one of our wholly owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary and other wholly owned subsidiaries own and maintain various additional registered and unregistered trademarks, trade names and service marks, including but not limited to retail names RONA and Reno Depot , and private brand product names Kobalt and allen+roth . These subsidiaries also maintain various Internet domain names that are important to our business, and we also own registered and unregistered copyrights. In addition, we maintain patent portfolios related to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect certain innovations that we incorporate into our products, services, or business operations. Sustainability Lowe s is committed to leveraging our time, talents and resources to make our world better by making our communities stronger and encouraging people to want to connect with us as their partner in home improvement. Sustainability and environmental matters are overseen by the Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors. The Sustainability Committee monitors sustainability and environmental related trends and risks. The Company also has a Sustainability Council, led by senior executives focused on efficiently integrating sustainability into day-to-day operations. Our strategy focuses on responsible sourcing, offering safe and eco-friendly products, maintaining a diverse, healthy, engaged, and skilled workforce, supporting our local communities through safe and affordable housing, and operating ethically and responsibly. We have established goals to advance our corporate responsibility efforts, which can be found in our annual corporate responsibility report available at Newsroom.Lowes.com/Responsibility . In fiscal 2019, Lowe s was added to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index based on environmental, social, and governance practices. We want our customers to feel good about the high-quality products they choose at Lowe s. Our products undergo a thorough selection process, beginning with our sourcing decisions. We give considerable attention to how our products are created and to the people who make them. Through collaboration and established management systems, we monitor our suppliers practices to secure high-quality products from suppliers who support worker rights and protect the environment. In fiscal 2019, we published a human rights policy and a revised conflict minerals policy to hold all suppliers to our rigorous standards. We also include innovative, efficient and eco-certified products in our portfolio that provide health and environmental benefits to meet the needs of an increasing customer demand. We continue to work with local and regional 8 Table of Contents utilities to offer customers assorted rebates for a variety of environmentally efficient products including ENERGY STAR and WaterSense . As a responsible corporate citizen, Lowe s takes environmental sustainability and product safety seriously. Lowe s upholds a wood sourcing policy that provides that all wood products sold in our stores originate from well-managed, non-endangered forests and are seeking to achieve 100 percent Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification for all wood products sourced from identified regions at risk by the end of 2020. In fiscal 2019, we conducted a pilot audit for compliance verification to Lowe s wood sourcing policy and plan to roll out the audit process broadly in 2020. Also, Lowe s updated our safer chemicals policy, which guides our actions toward offering safer, more eco-friendly alternatives. In addition, Lowe s stopped the sale of all products containing methylene chloride and N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone (NMP) online and from our stores and stopped purchasing residential carpet and rugs containing polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). We are committed to reducing our climate impact through sustainable practices and conservation. In fiscal 2019, 363 retail locations upgraded to interior light-emitting diode (LED) lighting. We also replaced 118 stores aging HVAC units with high-efficiency models. Our renewable energy portfolio will expand in the first quarter of 2020 when 100 megawatts of wind energy becomes operational in central Texas. The wind turbines will produce the equivalent amount of energy to power all 144 Lowe s stores in Texas. We met both of our 2020 climate goals ahead of schedule and developed a more aggressive goal for 2030, to reduce our absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40% below 2016 levels. We are dedicated to promoting sustainable practices in the transportation industry, and we collaborate with the Environmental Protection Agency s SmartWay program to reduce transportation emissions by managing and reducing fuel usage by creating incentives for freight contractors to improve efficiency and are proud to be the first retailer to achieve the Environmental Protection Agency s SmartWay Excellence Award ten years in a row. Lowe s participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project s (CDP) climate, forestry, and water security questionnaires to benchmark and quantify our environmental practices in an effort to be transparent in our progress and assist in the reduction of our contributions to climate change. In fiscal 2019, Lowe s externally verified its greenhouse gas emissions data to validate our findings and increase confidence in our reporting. At a local level, store waste, including cardboard, broken appliances, wood pallets, and more, are recycled through national and regional partners, and we provide in-store recycling centers for our customers to bring in plastic planter pots, compact fluorescent lamp bulbs, plastic bags, and rechargeable batteries. For more information about Lowe s sustainability efforts, please visit Newsroom.Lowes.com/Responsibility . Investing in Our Communities Lowe s believes in giving back to the neighborhoods where its associates live and work. Through charitable contributions, associate volunteerism and nonprofit partnerships, Lowe's has invested in communities since its inception. As a Fortune 50 home improvement company, Lowe s is committed to creating safe and affordable housing and helping develop the next generation of skilled trade experts. Lowe s and the Lowe s Foundation donated more than $42 million in 2019 to nonprofit organizations supporting local communities in these areas, as well as military and disaster response. This year, Lowe s worked with organizations like Habitat for Humanity International, Rebuilding Together, Sleep In Heavenly Peace, Purple Heart Homes and Operation Finally Home to identify and address critical housing needs nationwide as part of its safe and affordable housing initiatives. By partnering with AMVETS, USO, National Urban League and SkillsUSA, Lowe's is working to address the skilled trades education gap through education, job creation, and community investments. Lowe's support for communities impacted by disaster goes far beyond clean-up and recovery supplies. Lowe's partners with the American Red Cross, Reach Out WorldWide, Operation BBQ Relief, Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH) and others to not only respond to immediate needs, but to support impacted areas with rebuilding efforts in the months and years to come. In 2019, Lowe s contributed more than $2 million to disaster relief and mobilized employee volunteers to help communities recovering from natural disasters like Hurricane Dorian, Texas flooding, California wildfires, and tornadoes across the southeast. Lowe's is also passionate about serving its communities and encourages associates to support the neighborhoods where they live and work. Through the Lowe s Heroes program, funds are allocated to each U.S. and Canadian store for a project in its community that associates can complete together. In 2019, all Lowe s stores were able to give back to their communities due to this funding. 9 Table of Contents In addition, associates at company headquarters participated in on-campus community projects during the year, including assembling disaster cleanup buckets to be deployed to impacted areas after natural disasters and building beds that were donated to Sleep in Heavenly Peace, a nonprofit partner with a goal to end child bedlessness across the United States. Lowe's is also dedicated to helping each other in times of need. Our Lowe s Employee Relief Fund , made possible through associate donations and company matching, supports associates in times of significant, unforeseen financial hardship. In 2019, Lowe s distributed over $2 million, helping 2,151 associates in need. For more information on Lowe s partnerships and latest community improvement projects, visit Newsroom.Lowes.com/Responsibility . Available Information Our Annual Report, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor , as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov , that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.