Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 16 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Information About Our Executive Officers 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Reserved 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B. Other Information 68 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 79 Signatures 80 i Table of Content s DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as believe , expect , anticipate , plan , desire , project , estimate , intend , will , should , could , would , may , strategy , potential , opportunity , outlook , scenario , guidance , and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve, among other things, expectations, projections, and assumptions about future financial and operating results, objectives (including objectives related to environmental and social matters), business outlook, priorities, sales growth, shareholder value, capital expenditures, cash flows, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for products and services including customer acceptance of new offerings and initiatives, macroeconomic conditions and consumer spending, share repurchases, and Lowe s strategic initiatives, including those relating to acquisitions and dispositions and the impact of such transactions on our strategic and operational plans and financial results. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, and we can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. For a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read Item 1A , Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements other than as required by law. ii Table of Content s Part I Item 1 - Business General Information Lowe s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe s) is a Fortune 50 company and the world s second largest home improvement retailer. As of February 2, 2024, Lowe s operated 1,746 home improvement stores and outlets in the United States, representing approximately 195 million square feet of retail selling space. Lowe s was founded in 1921 with the opening of its first hardware store in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina. The Company was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol LOW . For additional information about the Company s performance and financial condition, see Item 7 , Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Annual Report. Our Strategy Lowe s is an omnichannel retailer whose core priorities are to provide an excellent customer experience, create a great place to work for our associates, and improve our communities, which we believe will create long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders. In fiscal 2020, we implemented our Total Home strategy, which reflects our commitment to provide a full complement of products and services for professional customers (Pro customers) and consumers alike, enabling a Total Home solution for every project across the home. Our Total Home strategy has the following five pillars: Drive Pro penetration Accelerate online business Expand installation services Drive localization Elevate assortment We continue to transform our Pro offerings to drive Pro penetration by expanding our Pro brands, tailoring our product assortments to local building codes and preferences, and increasing loyalty through our MVPs Pro Rewards Partnership Program TM , which further enhances our relationship with our Pro customers. We are investing in our omnichannel retail capabilities to expand our online business. We are increasing visibility to our installation services through improved signage throughout our stores and continuing to improve the customer experience for our services, which are provided by our network of independent installers or outsourced to our third-party model that sells, furnishes, and installs more complex projects. Our expanding localization efforts better serve the product needs of the unique communities across the country. Finally, we continue to elevate our product assortment to provide the right products at the right price to meet our customers needs. Our Customers and Market The home improvement market in which we operate is highly fragmented, serving Pro customers, individual homeowners, and renters completing a wide array of projects that vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). The Pro customer consists of three broad categories: tradespeople, repair and remodelers, and property managers. There are many variables that affect consumer demand for the home improvement products and services we offer. Key indicators we monitor include home price appreciation, age of the housing stock, real disposable personal income, and housing turnover. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that shape home improvement industry growth, notably strong millennial household formation, and the persistence of remote work. 1 Table of Content s Our Competition The home improvement industry includes a broad competitive landscape that continues to evolve. We compete with national and regional home improvement warehouse chains and lumber yards in most of the markets we serve. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical, and home supply retailers, as well as paint stores, lumber yards, garden centers, and maintenance and repair organizations. In addition, we compete with general merchandise retailers, home goods specialty stores, warehouse clubs, online retailers, other specialty retailers, providers of equipment and tool rental, service providers that install home improvement products, and wholesalers that provide home-related products and services to homeowners, renters, businesses, and the government. Location of stores, product assortment, product pricing, and customer service continue to be key competitive factors in our industry, while the evolution of technology, including artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies, expansion of fulfillment capabilities, and customer expectations also underscore the importance of omnichannel capabilities as a competitive factor. To ensure ongoing competitiveness, Lowe s focuses on delivering the right home improvement products, with the best service and value, across every channel and community we serve. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A , Risk Factors , of this Annual Report. Our Omnichannel Capabilities We are committed to meeting customer demand to shop however, whenever, and wherever they choose. Our omnichannel capabilities allow our customers to move from channel to channel with simple and seamless transitions even within the same transaction. For example, for many projects, more than half of our customers conduct research online before making an in-store purchase. For purchases made on Lowes.com, customers may pick up their purchase in-store at the customer service desk, curbside, or from touchless lockers, or have their purchase delivered to their home or business. In addition, flexible fulfillment options are available for in-store purchases and those made through the contact center. Regardless of the channels through which customers choose to engage with us, we strive to provide them with a seamless experience across channels and an extended aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities. Our ability to sell products in-store, online, on-site, or through our contact centers speaks to our leverage of our existing infrastructure with the omnichannel capabilities we continue to introduce. In-Store Our 1,746 Lowe s-branded home improvement stores and outlet stores are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. Our home improvement stores offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on localization, along with a dedicated team of knowledgeable and friendly frontline associates available to assist our customers. We continue to develop and implement productivity tools to enhance the efficiency of our sales associates and to integrate our order management, inventory management, and fulfillment processes. Our home improvement stores have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with Internet access, making information available quickly to further simplify the shopping experience. Our Lowe s Outlet stores have a smaller format and offer value to our customers through incremental savings on big and bulky scratch and dent items. Online Through our websites and mobile applications, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience, product information, customer ratings and reviews, buying guides, how-to videos, and other information. These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them increased confidence to undertake home improvement projects. We enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store, curbside pick-up, same-day delivery through our gig network, and shipment to their homes or businesses. Further, we also offer digital inspiration, design, and project management tools across our destination home improvement categories. On-Site We have on-site specialists available for retail and Pro customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects. Our Pro sales managers meet with Pro customers at their place of business or on a job site and leverage nearby stores and our distribution network to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources. In addition, our In-Home Sales program is available in the majority of our stores to discuss various exterior projects such as windows, doors, and fencing, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. 2 Table of Content s Contact Centers Lowe s operates contact centers in a virtual workplace. These contact centers help Lowe s enable an omnichannel customer experience by providing the ability to tender sales, assist with order management, coordinate deliveries, manage after-sale installations, and answer general customer questions via phone, mail, e-mail, live chat, and social media. Our Products Product Selection To meet customers varying needs, we offer a complete line of products for construction, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and decorating. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Appliances, Seasonal Outdoor Living, Lumber, Lawn Garden, Kitchens Bath, Hardware, Building Materials, Millwork, Paint, Rough Plumbing, Tools, Electrical, Flooring, and D cor. A typical Lowe s-branded home improvement store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with additional items available through our online selling channels. Our product assortments offered in-store strive to meet the needs of the local market. See Note 1 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 , Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise complemented by our selection of high-value private brands. In fiscal 2023, Klein Tools returned to Lowe s, expanding our hand tools, storage, safety, and electrical product offerings both in-store and online. This addition, along with other recognized national brands added to our assortment during the fiscal year, position us to better serve our customers with the products they need. In addition, we are dedicated to selling products sourced in a socially responsible, efficient, and cost-effective manner. Supply Chain We source our products from vendors worldwide and believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin. To efficiently replenish our stores and meet our customers expectations for fast fulfillment and delivery, we own and operate more than 120 supply chain facilities in our network. These facilities include regional distribution centers (RDCs), flatbed distribution centers (FDCs), import distribution centers (IDCs), bulk distribution centers (BDCs), cross-dock terminals (XDTs), and Fulfillment Centers (FCs). Fulfillment centers, which along with many of our stores, ship product directly to our customers. In addition, we are establishing a Pro fulfillment network which will leverage a combination of our existing supply chain as well as new facilities. Each one of these distribution nodes plays a critical role in our Total Home strategy and collectively enable our products to get to their destination as efficiently as possible. The FDCs distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, pipe, siding, ladders, and building materials. On average, each RDC and FDC serves approximately 115 stores. Our Pro fulfillment network stocks deeper quantities of our top Pro assortments and has expanded capabilities to handle large orders on multiple flat beds. Our IDCs were expanded to create more capacity to hold import product at the coast, which improves our network s agility to move inventory where and when it is needed. Our BDCs handle appliances and other big and bulky product, and our XDTs fulfill final mile box truck deliveries of these products. Our supply chain supports every pillar of our Total Home strategy, and as such, we continue to invest and transform our network to unlock our omnichannel capabilities while keeping our organization s sustainability goals top of mind. As part of the continued rollout of our market-based delivery model, we expanded to additional geographic areas and enhanced our distribution capacity for big and bulky product. As of fiscal year 2023, we have 16 geographic areas converted to our market-based delivery model. We have also been focused on improving the speed of our delivery capabilities for our customers. As of fiscal year 2023, most parcel-eligible items can be ordered by a customer and delivered within two business days at standard shipping rates. Also, the nationwide expansion of our gig networks provides same-day delivery of certain products from our stores. Customer needs and buying patterns are constantly changing, and our supply chain will continue to evolve to meet their needs. We are building an omnichannel supply chain that operates with greater network capacity, better flow management and optimization. 3 Table of Content s Our Services Installed Sales We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Flooring, Kitchens Bath, Millwork, Appliances, and Lumber accounting for the majority of installed sales. Our installed sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed. Installed sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 5% of total sales in fiscal 2023. Lowe s Protection Plans and Repair Services We offer extended protection plans for certain products within the Appliances, Kitchens Bath, D cor, Millwork, Rough Plumbing, Electrical, Seasonal Outdoor Living, Tools, and Hardware categories. These protection plans provide customers with product protection that enhances the coverage offered by the manufacturer s warranty and provide additional benefits and repair services that extend beyond the manufacturer s warranty. Seasonality and Working Capital The home improvement business in general is subject to seasonal influences, particularly related to the spring selling season. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June, and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December, and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7 , Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Annual Report. Intellectual Property The name Lowe s is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and logo and the accompanying goodwill and name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary owns and maintains various additional registered and unregistered trademarks, service marks and trade names, including private brand product names, such as, Kobalt , STAINMASTER and allen+roth. This subsidiary also maintains various Internet domain names that are important to our business, and we also own registered and unregistered copyrights. In addition, we maintain patent portfolios related to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect certain innovations that we incorporate into our products, services, or business operations. Government Regulation We are subject to a wide array of federal, state, and local laws and regulations. We do not currently expect compliance with these laws and regulations to have a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position as compared to prior periods. Human Capital When it comes to attracting and retaining top talent, Lowe s strives to be the employer of choice in retail. At Lowe s we are committed to creating valuable career opportunities for our associates, supporting them and the communities where they live, and cultivating a culture that invites and encourages diverse opinions and ideas. We would like our associates to see Lowe s as a Home to Possibility with good jobs, a sense of belonging, and a promising future. As a testament to our commitments, in fiscal 2023 we received more than 15 notable employer of choice awards including being named on the Disability:IN National Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion, Fortune s World s Most Admired Companies Specialty Retailer, DiversityInc. s Top 50 Noteworthy Companies, 2023 American Opportunity Index, and a Best Corporation for Veteran s Business Enterprises of the Year. We were also awarded the Center for Workforce Inclusion 2023 Workforce Equity Award. Our People As of February 2, 2024, Lowe s employed approximately 168,000 full-time associates and 116,000 part-time associates, primarily in the United States and India. During the spring season, we temporarily expand our workforce by hiring associates in part-time and full-time positions to meet the elevated levels of demand. 4 Table of Content s At Lowe s, we have a proactive associate listening strategy, most notably through our annual engagement survey. In fiscal 2023, more than 90% of our associates participated in our survey and our people leaders use the feedback to improve our associate experience. Creating Good Jobs We have a strong track record of investing in our workforce by offering locally competitive salaries and wages. These investments include incremental wages and share-based compensation for our frontline associates, which included creating many new roles for our associates to grow into as they advance along their career path. We offer an array of health, welfare, and financial benefits to our full-time and part-time associates, including health care and insurance benefits, retirement plans, an employee stock purchase plan, paid time off, and leave programs, among many others. We have implemented workforce management tools that enable us to offer various scheduling options to our full-time associates to foster an improved experience in balancing their work and life responsibilities. This includes such options for a shortened workweek, consistent shifts, or consecutive days off. Our focus on the associate experience begins at initial application. The implementation of improved technology in the hiring process has simplified the experience for those looking to join Lowe s and helped to drive the experience overall. In 2023, we added Spanish language capabilities to promote bilingual hiring by guiding candidates through the full application process in Spanish. Once hired, associates now experience an improved onboarding to help them quickly learn the knowledge and skills required to be successful in their new roles. Providing a safe environment for both working and shopping is our highest priority at Lowe s. We strive to maintain a culture of safety, which begins with our leaders modeling the behaviors we want our associates to adopt. We embed safety into associate onboarding, developmental e-learning, and on-the-job training. Sense of Belonging We believe that by building diverse and inclusive teams with a range of perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences, and equal opportunity for all, we drive better ideas, positive business results, and improve service through a deeper connection with the diverse communities we serve. We continue to execute on our multi-year program to integrate diversity and inclusion initiatives into our corporate strategy across three areas: talent, culture, and business. We also strive to attract diverse talent for leadership positions across our company. In 2023, we held our eleventh annual Women s Leadership Summit, focused on developing women leaders across our corporate and field locations. In our efforts to foster an inclusive culture, we have eight business resource groups that are sponsored by members of our officer team. These groups provide our associates with opportunities to collaborate, network, and learn together, and offer additional spaces where associates feel heard and can engage with other colleagues across the organization. Promising Future We are committed to securing top talent and providing ongoing training and other developmental opportunities to facilitate meaningful careers at Lowe s. We offer a variety of role-specific leadership and development programs that build and reinforce functional-technical/professional skills, business acumen, and leadership skills to prepare high-performing leaders for their next role. Our focus on leadership development enables us to grow talent internally and has resulted in more than 80% of store leadership positions being filled internally in the last year. Our Lowe's University offerings include the District Manager and Store Manager immersive week-long leadership experience programs, delivered from the Lowe s University training center; the virtually-delivered store department supervisor fundamentals series; the virtually-delivered field supply chain leadership director, manager, and supervisor experience programs; and the certification programs for store and technology associates that further develop their skills and knowledge base. In 2023, we expanded our in-person Lowe s University offerings to include an Assistant Store Manager leadership training to further develop our store leaders. Additionally, through Lowe s Track to the Trades program, we offer all Lowe s associates the opportunity to enroll in programs to complete apprentice certifications in electrical, plumbing, HVAC, appliance repair, or multi-family maintenance. The program also connects them with Pros to help them start a career in their area of interest. The Track to the Trades program demonstrates Lowe s commitment to our industry and the communities we serve. This combined with our tuition-free education program are further examples of how we are investing in the development of our associates. 5 Table of Content s Corporate Responsibility We take our role as a Fortune 50 retailer seriously by managing our business responsibly and focusing on serving our associates and improving the communities where we live and work. Sustainability objectives are integrated into our business operations, particularly by focusing on the three pillars of our sustainability strategy: our people and communities, product sustainability, and reducing the environmental footprint of our operations, which we believe will help drive long-term shareholder value. In fiscal 2023, for the fifth consecutive year, Lowe s was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index based on our environmental and social practices. Investing in our Communities We understand the important role Lowe s plays in supporting our communities through our philanthropic efforts. With our community engagement initiatives and continued partnerships with nonprofits across the nation, we are revitalizing neighborhoods, improving community spaces, responding when natural disasters strike, and preparing the next generation of skilled tradespeople. We carry out these initiatives with a special focus on veterans, the active military community, and first responders. In 2023, the Lowe s Foundation established the Gable Grants program, which is a five-year, $50 million commitment to recruit, train, and prepare 50,000 people for skilled trades careers through grants to community and technical colleges and community-based nonprofits. Product Sustainability We are committed to promoting sustainable practices throughout our supply chain and providing customers with eco-friendly, high quality, and safe products. Our products undergo a thorough selection process, beginning with our sourcing decisions. Through collaboration and established management systems, we monitor our suppliers practices to secure high-quality products from suppliers who support worker rights and protect the environment. Lowe s human rights policy supports the fundamental principles of human rights, as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We continue to hold all suppliers to our rigorous standards through our human rights policy, our conflict minerals policy, and our Vendor Code of Conduct, which includes enhanced environmental standards. In addition, we have a wood sourcing policy with principles that we expect our vendors to follow, including no illegal logging; no deforestation; no sourcing of endangered species; the protection and preservation of biodiversity; and undergoing and securing Free, Prior and Informed Consent, as defined by the United Nations, wherever applicable. In 2023, we updated our wood sourcing policy with new wood sourcing risk levels by country, enhanced monitoring practices, and a new forestry grievance process. As part of our commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our products, we continue to increase our offering of independently certified products that have validated environmental claims, preserve and protect natural resources, and help customers decrease energy and water consumption. We work with local and regional utilities to offer customers assorted rebates for a variety of environmentally efficient products including ENERGY STAR and WaterSense . Reducing our Environmental Footprint We are committed to mitigating climate change by reducing the environmental impact of our operations and supply chain through reducing carbon emissions with investments in energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, environmentally friendly transportation practices, and innovative water and waste management systems. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions In December 2022, Lowe s established a goal to reach net-zero emissions across the Company s scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions by 2050. To meet interim targets, Lowe s has also committed to decreasing its scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40% and reducing scope 3 emissions by 22.5% below 2021 levels by 2030. We report our progress annually in Lowe s Corporate Responsibility Report, to CDP, and via lowes.com/net-zero . The contents of these reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). To reach these targets, Lowe s will focus on increasing operat