Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 Information About Our Executive Officers 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. Reserved 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B. Other Information 68 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 81 i Table of Contents DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as believe , expect , anticipate , plan , desire , project , estimate , intend , will , should , could , would , may , strategy , potential , opportunity , outlook , scenario , guidance and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve, among other things, expectations, projections, and assumptions about future financial and operating results, objectives, business outlook, priorities, sales growth, shareholder value, capital expenditures, cash flows, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for products and services, share repurchases, Lowe s strategic initiatives, including those relating to acquisitions and dispositions and the impact of such transactions on our strategic and operational plans and financial results. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, and we can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. For a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read Item 1A , Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements other than as required by law. ii Table of Contents Part I Item 1 - Business General Information Lowe s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe s) is a Fortune 50 company and the world s second largest home improvement retailer. As of January 28, 2022, Lowe s operated 1,971 home improvement and hardware stores, representing approximately 208 million square feet of retail selling space. These operations included 1,737 stores located across 50 U.S. states, as well as 234 stores in Canada. The Canadian stores include RONA inc. (RONA), which was acquired by Lowe s in 2016. RONA operates 173 stores in Canada as of January 28, 2022, as well as services 226 dealer-owned stores. The RONA stores represent complementary store formats operating under various banners. Lowe s was founded in 1921 with the opening of its first hardware store in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina. The Company was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol LOW . For additional information about the Company s performance and financial condition, see Item 7 , Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Annual Report. Customers, Market and Competition Our Customers We serve homeowners, renters, and professional customers (Pro customers). Individual homeowners and renters complete a wide array of projects and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). The Pro customer consists of two broad categories: construction trades and maintenance, repair and operations. Our Market The U.S. market remains our predominant market, accounting for approximately 94% of consolidated sales for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2022. The market in which we operate includes home-related sales through a variety of types of businesses. This includes home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, mass retailers, home goods specialty stores, and online retailers, as well as wholesalers that provide home-related products and services to homeowners, renters, businesses, and the government. There are many variables that affect consumer demand for the home improvement products and services Lowe s offers. Key indicators we monitor include real disposable personal income, employment, home prices, housing turnover, and consumer mobility. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that shape home improvement industry growth. Our Competition The home improvement industry includes a broad competitive landscape that continues to evolve. Lowe s competes with national and international home improvement warehouse chains and lumber yards in most of the markets we serve. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical, home supply retailers, and maintenance and repair organizations. In addition, we compete with general merchandise retailers, warehouse clubs, online retailers, other specialty retailers, providers of equipment and tool rental, as well as service providers that install home improvement products. Location of stores, product assortment, product pricing and customer service continue to be key competitive factors in our industry, while the evolution of technology and customer expectations also underscores the importance of omnichannel capabilities as a competitive factor. To ensure ongoing competitiveness, Lowe s focuses on delivering the right home improvement products, with the best service and value, across every channel and community we serve. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A , Risk Factors , of this Annual Report. Products and Services 1 Table of Contents Our products and services provide the retail and Pro customer a one-stop shop for a full complement of merchandise and services to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance, or construction projects, enabling a Total Home solution for every need in the home. Our Products Product Selection To meet customers varying needs, we offer a complete line of products for construction, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and decorating. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Appliances, Seasonal Outdoor Living, Lawn Garden, Lumber, Kitchens Bath, Tools, Paint, Millwork, Hardware, Flooring, Rough Plumbing, Building Materials, D cor, Lighting, and Electrical. A typical Lowe s-branded home improvement store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with over two million additional items available through our online selling channels. See Note 1 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 , Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise complemented by our selection of private brands. In addition, we are dedicated to ensuring the products we sell are sourced in a socially responsible, efficient, and cost-effective manner. National Brand-Name Merchandise In many product categories, customers look for a familiar and trusted national brand to instill confidence in their purchase. Lowe s home improvement stores carry a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise such as GE , LG , Samsung , and Whirlpool appliances; Sherwin-Williams and Valspar paints and stains; LARSON windows and doors; Pergo and SMARTCORE flooring; CRAFTSMAN and DeWalt power tools; Metabo pneumatic tools; Weber and Char-Broil grills; Owens Corning insulation and roofing; GAF roofing; Marshalltown masonry and concrete tools; Husqvarna and EGO outdoor power equipment; John Deere riding lawn mowers; Scotts lawn care products, SharkBite plumbing products; A. O. Smith water heaters; Norton abrasives; Eaton and Southwire electrical products and wire; and many more. Private Brands Private brands are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to increase customer loyalty, drive sales, create differentiation, and improve margin. We have a strong private brand presence across core categories, including some of our most valuable brands such as: Kobalt tools; STAINMASTER carpets; allen+roth , ORIGIN 21 , and Style Selections home d cor products; Severe Weather pressure treated lumber; Project Source high-value project completers; Holiday Living seasonal products; Harbor Breeze ceiling fans; Sta-Green lawn and garden products; Moxie cleaning products; Reliabilt doors, windows, and hardware; and Utilitech lighting and electrical products. Supply Chain We source our products from vendors worldwide and believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin. To efficiently move products from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate distribution facilities that enable products to be received from vendors, stored and picked, or cross-docked, and then shipped to our retail locations or directly to customers. These facilities include 15 regional distribution centers (RDC) and 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDC) in the United States. The FDCs distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, pipe, siding, ladders, and building materials. On average, each RDC and FDC serves approximately 115 stores. We also own and operate seven distribution centers, including four lumber yards, to serve our Canadian market. In addition to the RDCs and FDCs, we also operate coastal holding and transload facilities (CHF) to handle import product, bulk distribution centers (BDC) to handle appliances and other big and bulky product, cross-dock delivery terminals (XDT) to fulfill final mile box truck deliveries, and fulfillment centers (FC) focused on parcel post eligible products. As part of our market-based delivery model, we added three XDT ecosystems (consisting of six new XDTs) in fiscal 2021. We also enhanced our distribution network by opening four BDCs, three FCs, and two CHFs. Collectively, our facilities enable our import and e-commerce products to get to their destination as efficiently as possible. Most parcel-eligible items can be ordered by a customer and delivered within two business days at standard shipping rates. In fiscal 2021, approximately 65% of the total dollar amount of merchandise we purchased flowed through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to our stores or customers directly from our vendors. 2 Table of Contents Our Services Installed Sales We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Flooring, Kitchens Bath, Millwork, Appliances, and Lumber accounting for the majority of installed sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 5% of total sales in fiscal 2021. Lowe s Protection Plans and Repair Services We offer extended protection plans for various products within the Appliances, Kitchens Bath, D cor, Millwork, Rough Plumbing, Electrical, Seasonal Outdoor Living, Tools, and Hardware categories. These protection plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends coverage offered by the manufacturer s warranty and provides additional customer-friendly benefits that go beyond the scope of a manufacturer s warranty. The protection plans provide in-warranty benefits and out-of-warranty repair services for major appliances, outdoor power equipment, tools, grills, fireplaces, air conditioners, water heaters, and other eligible products through our stores or in the home through the Lowe s Authorized Service Repair Network. Our contact centers take customers calls, assesses the problems, and facilitates resolutions, making after-sales service easier for our customers by managing the entire process. Selling Channels We are continuing to enhance our omnichannel capabilities, which allows our customers to move from channel to channel with simple and seamless transitions even within the same transaction. For example, for many projects, more than half of our customers conduct research online before making an in-store purchase. For purchases made on Lowes.com, customers may pick up their purchase in-store at the customer service desk, curbside pick-up, or touchless lockers, or have their purchase delivered to their home or business. In addition, flexible fulfillment options are available for in-store purchases and those made through the contact center. Regardless of the channels through which customers choose to engage with us, we strive to provide them with a seamless experience across channels and an endless aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities. Our ability to sell products in-store, online, on-site, or through our contact centers speaks to our leverage of our existing infrastructure with the omnichannel capabilities we continue to introduce. In-Store Our 1,798 Lowe s-branded home improvement stores, inclusive of 1,737 in the U.S. and 61 in Canada, are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. The 173 RONA stores operate under various complementary store formats that address target customers and occasions. Our home improvement stores in the U.S. and Canada offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on localization. We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and to integrate our order management and fulfillment processes. Our home improvement stores have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with Internet access, making information available quickly to further simplify the shopping experience. Online Through our websites and mobile applications, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience, product information, customer ratings and reviews, buying guides, how-to videos and other information. These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them increased confidence to undertake home improvement projects. We enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store, curbside pick-up, truck delivery and parcel shipment to their homes or businesses. We also offer a new virtual kitchen design service and virtual sales support for sheds, fencing, generators, and other project-related categories to allow our customers to shop how, when, and where they want for services projects. On-Site We have on-site specialists available for retail and Pro customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects. Our Pro sales managers meet with Pro customers at their place of business or on a job site and leverage nearby stores and our distribution network to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources. In addition, our In-Home Sales program is available in a majority of U.S. Lowe s home improvement stores to discuss varying exterior projects such as windows/doors, roofing, siding, and deck projects, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. 3 Table of Contents Contact Centers Lowe s operates three contact centers which are located in Wilkesboro, North Carolina; Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Indianapolis, Indiana. These contact centers help Lowe s enable an omnichannel customer experience by providing the ability to tender sales, coordinate deliveries, manage after-sale installations, facilitate repair services for Appliances and Outdoor Power Equipment, and answer general customer questions via phone, mail, e-mail, live chat, and social media. Human Capital When it comes to attracting and retaining top talent, Lowe s strives to be an employer of choice. We are committed to creating valuable career opportunities for our associates, supporting them and the communities where they live, and cultivating a culture that invites and encourages diverse opinions and ideas. We enable associates to build meaningful careers that unlock their potential in an inclusive workplace as we work together to deliver the right home improvement products to our customers, with the best service and value, across every channel and community we serve. As a testament to our commitments, in 2021 we received more than 15 notable employer of choice awards including being named: a Disability:IN National Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion, a Forbes America s Best Large Employers, a Best of the Best 2021 Top Employer by Black EOE Journal, HISPANIC Network Magazine, and Professional Woman s Magazine, and a Best Corporation for Veteran s Business Enterprises of the Year. Our People As of January 28, 2022, Lowe s employed approximately 200,000 full-time associates and 140,000 part-time associates, primarily in the United States, India, and Canada. During the spring season, we temporarily expand our workforce by hiring associates in part-time, seasonal, and full-time positions to meet the elevated levels of demand. Certain employees in Canada are subject to collective bargaining agreements. No other employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with employees to be good. Diversity and Inclusion We believe that, by building diverse and inclusive teams, we drive better ideas, positive business results, and improve service through a deeper connection with our customers. We continue to execute on our multi-year program to integrate diversity and inclusion initiatives into our corporate strategy across three areas: talent, culture, and business. In our efforts to foster an inclusive culture, we launched a new multigenerational business resource group (BRG) in 2021, building upon the seven existing associate-led BRGs that are sponsored by our executive leadership team. We have also introduced badges for our store uniforms that identify the store associates who speak Spanish or American Sign Language. In 2021, we held our ninth annual Women s Leadership Summit, focused on developing women leaders across our corporate and field locations. Also, in 2020, Lowe s joined the OneTen coalition, which as a whole, the coalition has committed to hiring one million Black Americans in the next ten years. Talent Development We are committed to securing top talent and providing ongoing training and other developmental opportunities to facilitate meaningful careers at Lowe s. We enhanced our onboarding process so that new hires can quickly learn the skills needed for their position. We offer a variety of leadership and development programs that develop skills and capabilities from product knowledge in our stores to advanced leadership principles for our leaders. This year we expanded Lowe's University Academies offerings and included certification programs for store and technology associates that further develop their skills and knowledge base. Additionally, through Lowe s Track to the Trades program, we provide tuition reimbursement to our associates, encouraging them to complete apprentice certifications in carpentry, plumbing, electrical, heat, air ventilation and cooling (HVAC), or appliance repair. Total Rewards and Wellness In the spirit of building the best team and providing them with the best care, we are proud of the financial and well-being benefits we offer to our associates. We have a strong track record of investing in our workforce by offering locally competitive salaries and wages. We offer a wide variety of health, welfare, and financial benefits to our full-time and part-time associates, including health care and insurance benefits, retirement plans, an employee stock purchase plan, paid time off, leave programs and tuition assistance, among many others. In response to the evolving coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we continued to evolve our benefits and wellness programs to increase access to care. We waived co-payments on pharmacy home deliveries, covered 100% of COVID-19 testing and vaccines, continued to operate our onsite clinics in a virtual care model, and launched a new virtual behavioral health app. In partnership with CVS retail pharmacy and Premise onsite clinics, we launched a vaccine program, providing onsite access to 4 Table of Contents sites across the country. In 2021, we continued to offer emergency paid leave for associates who are suffering from COVID-19. Store and Workplace Safety Our associates and customers drive our success. Providing them a safe environment for both working and shopping is essential. We strive to maintain a culture of safety, which begins with our leaders modeling the behaviors we want our associates to adopt. We embed safety into associate onboarding, developmental e-learning and on-the-job training. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we instituted rigorous safety standards in support of social distancing and enhanced sanitizing and cleaning. Corporate Responsibility Report Additional information regarding our activities related to our people and human capital strategy, as well as our workforce diversity data, can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report and Culture, Diversity Inclusion Report, which are published annually. The contents of these reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Seasonality and Working Capital The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June, and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December, and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7 , Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Annual Report. Intellectual Property The name Lowe s is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and logo and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary and other wholly-owned subsidiaries own and maintain various additional registered and unregistered trademarks, service marks and trade names, including retail names RONA and Reno Depot , and private brand product names Kobalt , STAINMASTER and allen+roth . These subsidiaries also maintain various Internet domain names that are important to our business, and we also own registered and unregistered copyrights. In addition, we maintain patent portfolios related to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect certain innovations that we incorporate into our products, services, or business operations. Government Regulation We are subject to a wide array of federal, state, and local laws and regulations. We do not currently expect compliance with these laws and regulations to have a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position as compared to prior periods. Sustainability We have a proud history of managing our business responsibly and serving our associates and communities. We continue to integrate sustainability topics and issues into our business, including focusing on product sustainability, our associates and communities, and reducing the environmental footprint of our operations, which we believe will help drive long-term shareholder value. In addition to oversight by the full Board of Directors, the Board has also delegated primary responsibility for more frequent and in-depth oversight of the Company s sustainability strategies and initiatives and reviewing the Company s position on significant environmental and social issues to the sustainability committee of the Board of Directors. In fiscal 2021, for the third consecutive year, Lowe s was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index based on our environmental, social, and governance practices. Reducing our Environmental Footprint We are committed to mitigating climate change by reducing the environmental impact of our operations and supply chain through reducing carbon emissions with investments in energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, environmentally friendly transportation practices, and innovative water and waste management systems. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 5 Table of Contents By the end of 2022, we plan to announce a science based net-zero target. The new target will include near and long-term greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals for our full value chain. In addition to reducing GHG emissions from our operations, the new target will also include reduction efforts for our supply chain and the products we sell. We are committed to reducing our operational environmental footprint and have made significant investments in our facilities. Over the past three years, we have spent more than $550 million across multiple projects including indoor LED upgrades, replacing stores aging HVAC units with high efficiency models, installing and updating building management systems, and installing pallet grinders. We are a member of the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance to evaluate and explore new opportunities and technologies across renewable energy markets. Our renewable energy generation expanded in 2020 when 100 megawatts of wind energy became operational in central Texas through a power purchase agreement, and we have established a pipeline of other offsite renewable projects becoming operational over several years. In addition, we are in the process of evaluating on-site solar generation and battery storage options in multiple states. We are dedicated to promoting sustainable practices in the transportation industry, and we collaborate with the Environmental Protection Agency s (EPA) SmartWay program to reduce transportation emissions by managing and reducing fuel usage by creating incentives for freight contractors to improve efficiency. We are an EPA SmartWay program partner and aim for 100% SmartWay certification for our transportation providers; in the future this will be a program requirement for all transportation providers along with annual recertification. This program provides access to comprehensive data and oversight of Scope 3 emissions associated with our U.S. transportation footprint. Waste We partner with suppliers to improve recycling and waste diversion, develop regional management processes, measure waste streams and conduct waste audits. At a local level, store waste, including cardboard, broken appliances, wood pallets, and more, are recycled through national and regional partners, and we provide in-store recycling and reuse centers for our customers to bring in plastic planter pots, compact fluorescent lamp bulbs, plastic bags, and rechargeable batteries. In fiscal 2021, we joined the How2Recycle partnership in an effort to educate customers and increase the likelihood of proper recycling of our product packaging. As technology and innovative practices improve, we will continue to explore opportunities to participate in the circular economy. Water While our water consumption is modest compared with other industries, we continue to focus on reducing water consumption within our operations. We use smart irrigation controllers for efficient watering at the majority of stores in the United States and have been exploring other water-efficient technologies to increase water savings in our stores and garden centers. Additionally, we utilize leak detection technology to catch leaks as they occur to prevent unnecessary water use. We also have protocols in place to manage the disposal of chemicals to prevent release into waterways of the communities we serve. Product Sustainability We are committed to promoting sustainable practices throughout our supply chain and providing customers with high quality and safe products. Our products undergo a thorough selection process, beginning with our sourcing decisions. Through collaboration and established management systems, we monitor our suppliers practices to secure high-quality products from suppliers who support worker rights a