Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 Part II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 96 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 96 Item 9B. Other Information 97 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 98 Item 11. Executive Compensation 98 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 98 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 98 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 98 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 99 Exhibit Index 100 Signatures 104 Continues on next page Lam Research Corporation 2020 10-K 2 Table of Contents PART I CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as believe, estimated, anticipate, expect, probable, intend, plan, aim, may, should, could, would, will, continue, and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements that relate to: trends and opportunities in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, margins, market share, served addressable market, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures, international sales, revenue (actual and/or deferred), operating expenses and earnings generally; management s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer and end user requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products and services, and the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; the effect of variability in our customers business plans or demand for our equipment and services; changes in demand for our products and in our market share resulting from, among other things, any changes in our customers proportion of capital expenditure (with respect to certain technology inflections); hedging transactions; debt or financing arrangements; our competition, and our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; our ability to obtain and qualify alternative sources of supply; changes in state, federal and international tax laws, our estimated annual tax rate and the factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth or decline in the industry and the total market for wafer fabrication equipment, our growth relative thereto and the resulting impact on us from such growth or decline; the success of joint development and collaboration relationships with customers, suppliers, or others; outsourced activities; the role of component suppliers in our business; our leadership and competency, and our ability to facilitate innovation; our ability to continue to, including the underlying factors that, create sustainable differentiation; the resources invested to comply with evolving standards and the impact of such efforts; legal and regulatory compliance; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax benefits or liabilities, and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our investment portfolio; our access to capital markets; uses of, payments of, and impact of interest rate fluctuations on, our debt; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any ; our ability and intention to repurchase our shares; credit risks; controls and procedures; recognition or amortization of expenses; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; our strategic relevance with our customers; our ability to scale our operations to respond to changes in our business; the value of our patents; the materiality of potential losses arising from legal proceedings; the probability of making payments under our guarantees; and the sufficiency of our financial resources or liquidity to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements, dividends, and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Continues on next page Lam Research Corporation 2020 10-K 3 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Incorporated in 1980, Lam Research Corporation ( Lam Research, Lam, we, our, us, or the Company ) is a Delaware corporation, headquartered in Fremont, California. We maintain a network of facilities throughout Asia, Europe, and the United States in order to meet the needs of our dynamic customer base. Additional information about Lam Research is available on our website at www.lamresearch.com. The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-K is not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q, Current Reports on Forms 8-K, Proxy Statements and all other filings we make with the SEC are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with or furnish them to the SEC and are also available online at the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. The Lam Research logo, Lam Research, and all product and service names used in this report are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Lam Research Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. All other marks mentioned herein are the property of their respective holders. We are a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive vehicles, and data storage devices. Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers ( IDMs ) that make products such as non-volatile memory ( NVM ), dynamic random-access memory ( DRAM ), and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer. Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits ( ICs ) on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective. Demand from cloud computing (the Cloud ) , the Internet of Things ( IoT ), and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost - efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional two-dimensional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical scaling strategies like three-dimensional ( 3D ) architectures as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. We believe we are in a strong position with our leadership and competency in deposition , etch, and clean to facilitate some of the most significant innovations in semiconductor device manufacturing. Several factors create opportunity for sustainable differentiation for us: (i) our focus on research and development, with several on-going programs relating to sustaining engineering, product and process development, and concept and feasibility; (ii) our ability to effectively leverage cycles of learning from our broad installed base; (iii) our collaborative focus with semi-ecosystem partners; (iv) our ability to identify and invest in the breadth of our product portfolio to meet technology inflections; and (v) our focus on delivering our multi-product solutions with a goal to enhance the value of Lam s solutions to our customers. We also address processes for back-end wafer-level packaging ( WLP ), which is an alternative to traditional wire bonding and can offer a smaller form factor, increased interconnect speed and bandwidth, and lower power consumption, among other benefits. In addition, our products are well-suited for related markets that rely on semiconductor processes and require production-proven manufacturing capability, such as complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor image sensors ( CIS ) and micro-electromechanical systems ( MEMS ). Continues on next page Lam Research Corporation 2020 10-K 4 Table of Contents Our Customer Support Business Group ( CSBG ) provides products and services to maximize installed equipment performance, predictability, and operational efficiency. We offer a broad range of services to deliver value throughout the lifecycle of our equipment, including customer service, spares, upgrades, and new and refurbished non-leading edge products in our deposition, etch, and clean markets. Many of the technical advances that we introduce in our newest products are also available as upgrades, which provide customers with a cost-effective strategy for extending the performance and capabilities of their existing wafer fabrication lines. Service offerings include addressing productivity needs for our customers including, but not limited to, system uptime or availability optimization, throughput improvements, and defect reduction. Additionally, within CSBG, our Reliant product line offers new and refurbished non-leading-edge products in deposition, etch and clean markets for those applications that do not require the most advanced wafer processing capability. Products Market Process/Application Technology Products Deposition Metal Films Electrochemical Deposition ( ECD ) (Copper Other) SABRE family Chemical Vapor Deposition ( CVD ) Atomic Layer Deposition ( ALD ) (Tungsten) ALTUS family Dielectric Films Plasma-enhanced CVD ( PECVD ) ALD Gapfill High-Density Plasma CVD ( HDP-CVD ) VECTOR family Striker family SPEED family Film Treatment Ultraviolet Thermal Processing ( ULTP ) SOLA family Etch Conductor Etch Reactive Ion Etch Kiyo family, Versys Metal family Dielectric Etch Reactive Ion Etch Flex family Through-silicon Via ( TSV ) Etch Deep Reactive Ion Etch Syndion family Clean Wafer Cleaning Wet Clean EOS , DV-Prime , Da Vinci , SP Series Bevel Cleaning Dry Plasma Clean Coronus family Mass Metrology Deposition, Etch, Clean Sub-milligram Mass Measurement Metryx Family Deposition Processes and Product Families Deposition processes create layers of dielectric (insulating) and metal (conducting) materials used to build a semiconductor device. Depending on the type of material and structure being made, different techniques are employed. Electrochemical deposition creates the copper wiring (interconnect) that links devices in an integrated circuit ( IC or chip ). Plating of copper and other metals is also used for TSV and WLP applications. Tiny tungsten connectors and thin barriers are made with the precision of chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition, which adds only a few layers of atoms at a time. Plasma-enhanced CVD, high-density plasma CVD, and ALD are used to form the critical insulating layers that isolate and protect all of these electrical structures. Lastly, post-deposition treatments such as ultraviolet thermal processing are used to improve dielectric film properties. ALTUS Product Family Tungsten deposition is used to form conductive features such as contacts, vias, and wordlines on a chip. These features are small, often narrow, and use only a small amount of metal, so minimizing resistance and achieving complete fill can be difficult. At these nanoscale dimensions, even slight imperfections can impact device performance or cause a chip to fail. Our ALTUS systems combine CVD and ALD technologies to deposit the highly conformal films needed for advanced tungsten metallization applications. The Multi-Station Sequential Deposition architecture enables nucleation layer formation and bulk CVD fill to be performed in the same Continues on next page Lam Research Corporation 2020 10-K 5 Table of Contents chamber ( in situ ). Our ALD technologies are used in the deposition of barrier films to achieve high step coverage with reduced thickness at lower temperatures relative to a conventional process. SABRE Product Family Copper deposition lays down the electrical wiring for most semiconductor devices. Even the smallest defect - say, a microscopic pinhole or dust particle - in these conductive structures can impact device performance, from loss of speed to complete failure. The SABRE ECD product family, which helped pioneer the copper interconnect transition, offers the precision needed for copper damascene manufacturing in logic and memory. System capabilities include cobalt deposition for logic applications and copper deposition directly on various liner materials, which is important for next-generation metallization schemes. For advanced WLP applications, such as forming conductive bumps and redistribution layers, and for filling TSVs, the SABRE 3D family combines Lam s SABRE Electrofill technology with additional innovation to deliver the high-quality films needed at high productivity. The modular architecture can be configured with multiple plating and pre/post-treatment cells, providing flexibility to address a variety of packaging applications. SOLA Product Family Dielectric materials designed to meet the insulation requirements of logic chips often have attributes that make them unusually difficult to use. These films are easily damaged and vulnerable to losing some of their insulating capability, which can lead to poor device performance. To enable these applications, some films can be stabilized - and others enhanced to improve device performance - using specialized post-deposition film treatments available with Lam s SOLA UVTP product family. SOLA products offer process flexibility through independent control of temperature, wavelength, and intensity at each station of the wafer path, enabled by Multi-Station Sequential Processing architecture. SPEED Product Family Dielectric gapfill processes deposit critical insulation layers between conductive and/or active areas by filling openings of various aspect ratios between conducting lines and between devices. With advanced devices, the structures being filled can be very tall and narrow. As a result, high-quality dielectric films are especially important due to the ever-increasing possibility of cross-talk and device failure. Our SPEED HDP-CVD products provide a multiple dielectric film solution for high-quality gapfill with industry-leading throughput and reliability. SPEED products have excellent particle performance, and their design allows large batch sizes between cleans and faster cleans. Striker Product Family The latest memory, logic, and imaging devices require extremely thin, highly conformal dielectric films for continued device performance improvement and scaling. For example, ALD films are critical for spacer-based multiple patterning schemes where the spacers help define critical dimensions, as well as for insulating liners and gapfill in high aspect ratio features, which have little tolerance for voids and even the smallest defect. The Striker single-wafer ALD products provide dielectric film solutions for these challenging requirements through application-specific material, process and hardware options that deliver film technology and defect performance. VECTOR Product Family Dielectric film deposition processes are used to form some of the most difficult-to-produce insulating layers in a semiconductor device, including those used in the latest transistors and 3D structures. In some applications, these films require dielectric films to be exceptionally smooth and defect free since slight imperfections are multiplied greatly in subsequent layers. Our VECTOR PECVD products are designed to provide the performance and flexibility needed to create these enabling structures within a wide range of challenging device applications. As a result of its design, VECTOR produces superior thin film quality, along with exceptional within-wafer and wafer-to-wafer uniformity. Etch Processes and Product Families Etch processes help create chip features by selectively removing both dielectric (insulating) and metal (conducting) materials that have been added during deposition. These processes involve fabricating increasingly Continues on next page Lam Research Corporation 2020 10-K 6 Table of Contents small, complex, and narrow features using many types of materials. The primary technology, reactive ion etch, bombards the wafer surface with ions (charged particles) to remove material. For the smallest features, atomic-layer etching ( ALE ) removes a few atomic layers of material at a time. While conductor etch processes precisely shape critical electrical components like transistors, dielectric etch forms the insulating structures that protect conducting parts. Flex Product Family Dielectric etch carves patterns in insulating materials to create barriers between the electrically conductive parts of a semiconductor device. For advanced devices, these structures can be extremely tall and thin and involve complex, sensitive materials. Slight deviations from the target feature profile - even at the atomic level - can negatively affect electrical properties of the device. To precisely create these challenging structures, our Flex product family offers differentiated technologies and application-focused capabilities for critical dielectric etch applications. Uniformity, repeatability, and tunability are enabled by a unique multi-frequency, small-volume, confined plasma design. Flex offers in situ multi-step etch and continuous plasma capability that delivers high productivity with low defectivity. Kiyo Product Family Conductor etch helps shape the electrically active materials used in the parts of a semiconductor device. Even a slight variation in these miniature structures can create an electrical defect that impacts device performance. In fact, these structures are so tiny that etch processes are pushing the boundaries of the basic laws of physics and chemistry. Our Kiyo product family delivers the high-performance capabilities needed to precisely and consistently form these conductive features with high productivity. Proprietary Hydra technology in Kiyo products improves critical dimension ( CD ) uniformity by correcting for incoming pattern variability, and atomic-scale variability control with production-worthy throughput is achieved with plasma-enhanced ALE capability. Syndion Product Family Plasma etch processes used to remove single crystal silicon and other materials deep into the wafer are collectively referred to as deep silicon etch. These may be deep trenches for CMOS image sensors, trenches for power and other devices, TSVs, and other high aspect ratio features. These are created by etching through multiple materials sequentially, where each new material involves a change in the etch process. The Syndion etch product family is optimized for deep silicon etch, providing the fast process switching with depth and cross-wafer uniformity control required to achieve precision etch results. The systems support both conventional single-step etch and rapidly alternating process, which minimizes damage and delivers precise depth uniformity. Versys Metal Product Family Metal etch processes play a key role in connecting the individual components that form an IC, such as forming wires and electrical connections. These processes can also be used to drill through metal hardmasks that pattern features too small for conventional masks, allowing continued shrinking of feature dimensions. To enable these critical etch steps, the Versys Metal product family provides high-productivity capability on a flexible platform. Superior CD and profile uniformity are enabled by a symmetrical chamber design with independent process tuning features. Clean Processes and Product Families Clean techniques are used between manufacturing steps to clear away particles, contaminants, residues and other unwanted material that could later lead to defects and to prepare the wafer surface for subsequent processing. Wet processing technologies can be used for wafer cleaning and etch applications. Plasma bevel cleaning is used to enhance die yield by removing unwanted materials from the wafer s edge that could impact the device area. Continues on next page Lam Research Corporation 2020 10-K 7 Table of Contents Coronus Product Family Bevel cleaning removes unwanted masks, residues, and films from the edge of a wafer between manufacturing steps. If not cleaned, these materials become defect sources. For instance, they can flake off and re-deposit on the device area during subsequent processes. Even a single particle that lands on a critical part of a device can ruin the entire chip. By inserting bevel clean processes at strategic points, these potential defect sources can be eliminated and more functional chips produced. By combining the precise control and flexibility of plasma with technology that protects the active die area, the Coronus bevel clean family cleans the wafer s edge to enhance die yield. The systems provide active die area protection by using plasma processing with proprietary confinement technology. Applications include post-etch, pre- and post-deposition, pre-lithography, and metal film removal to prevent arcing during plasma etch or deposition steps. DV-Prime , Da Vinci , EOS , and SP Series Product Families Wafer cleaning is performed repeatedly during semiconductor device manufacturing and is a critical process that affects product yield and reliability. Unwanted microscopic materials - some no bigger than the tiny structures themselves - need to be cleaned effectively. At the same time, these processes must selectively remove residues that are chemically similar to the device films. For advanced WLP, the wet clean steps used between processes that form the package and external wiring have surprisingly complex requirements. These processes are called on to completely remove specific materials and leave other fragile structures undisturbed. In IoT products that include power devices, MEMS and image sensors, there is a unique requirement for wafer backside wet etch to uniformly thin the silicon wafer while protecting the device side of the wafer. Based on our pioneering single-wafer spin technology, the DV-Prime and Da Vinci products provide the process flexibility needed with high productivity to address a wide range of wafer cleaning steps throughout the manufacturing process flow. As the latest of Lam s wet clean products, EOS delivers exceptionally low on-wafer defectivity and high throughput to address progressively demanding wafer cleaning applications, including emerging 3D structures. With a broad range of process capability, our SP Series products deliver cost-efficient, production-proven wet clean and silicon wet etch solutions for challenging WLP and IoT applications. Mass Metrology Processes and Product Mass metrology measures the change in mass following deposition, etch, and clean processes to enable monitoring and control of these often-repeated core manufacturing steps. For design components like thin film stacks, high aspect-ratio structures, and complex 3D architectures, optical techniques are limited in their ability to measure accurately the thick, deep, or otherwise visually obscured features. Measuring the change in mass for these applications provides a straightforward high-precision solution for monitoring and control of the critical features in advanced device structures, where there is often little tolerance for variation. Our line of high-precision mass metrology systems provides in-line monitoring and control of deposition, etch, and clean steps in real time - recording minute changes in mass to enable advanced detection of potential process excursions. Metryx Product Family Metryx mass metrology systems provide high precision in-line mass measurement for semiconductor wafer manufacturing. Nearly all semiconductor processes (e.g., deposition, etch and clean) either add or remove materials from the wafer. Measuring mass change of a wafer before and after a process therefore is a simple and direct means of monitoring and controlling the process. It is used to identify production wafer trends and excursions as they occur, allowing corrections to be implemented quickly to prevent further yield loss. It has been adopted in the production of 3D devices where traditional metrology and inspection techniques are insufficient for complex high aspect ratio device architectures. Mass metrology is also increasingly used to characterize multi-step processes and integrations for development, technology transfer, and diagnosis. Fiscal Periods Presented All references to fiscal years apply to our fiscal years, which ended June 28, 2020 , June 30, 2019 , and June 24, 2018 . Continues on next page Lam Research Corporation 2020 10-K 8 Table of Contents Research and Development The market for semiconductor capital equipment is characterized by rapid technological change and product innovation. Our ability to achieve and maintain our competitive advantage depends in part on our continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing products. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to research and development ( R D ) programs and seek to maintain close and responsive relationships with our customers and suppliers. We believe current challenges for customers at various points in the semiconductor manufacturing process present opportunities for us. We expect to continue to make substantial investments in R D to meet our customers product needs, support our growth strategy and enhance our competitive position. Marketing, Sales, and Service Our marketing, sales, and service efforts are focused on building long-term relationships with our customers and targeting product and service solutions designed to meet their needs. These efforts are supported by a team of product marketing and sales professionals as well as equipment and process engineers who work closely with individual customers to develop solutions for their wafer processing needs. We maintain ongoing service relationships with our customers and have an extensive network of service engineers in place throughout the United States, China, Europe, India, Japan, Korea, Southeast Asia, and Taiwan. We believe that comprehensive support programs and close working relationships with customers are essential to maintaining high customer satisfaction and our competitiveness in the marketplace. We provide standard warranties for our systems. The warranty provides that systems will be free from defects in material and workmanship and will conform to agreed-upon specifications. The warranty is limited to repair of the defect or replacement with new or like-new equivalent goods and is valid when the buyer provides prompt notification within the warranty period of the claimed defect or non-conformity and also makes the items av