Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 48 Item 2. Properties 52 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 53 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 56 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 60 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 62 Liquidity and Capital Resources 76 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 80 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 84 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 88 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Balance Sheet 88 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Income 89 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 90 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity 91 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 92 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 93 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 140 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 140 Item 9B. Other Information 141 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 141 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 142 Item 11. Executive Compensation 142 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 143 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 143 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 144 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 145 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 149 Signatures 150 2 Table of Contents -PART I- Item 1. Business Company Overview Southwest Airlines Co. (the Company or Southwest ) operates Southwest Airlines, a major passenger airline that provides scheduled air transportation in the United States and near-international markets. Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. Southwest s unique route network, low fares, and famous Hospitality continue to make the Company an attractive choice for Customers in cities across the United States and near-international destinations. As of December 31, 2023, Southwest had a total of 817 Boeing 737 aircraft in its fleet and served 121 destinations in 42 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and ten near-international countries: Mexico, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Aruba, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Belize, Cuba, the Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos. Industry The airline industry has historically been an extremely volatile industry. Among other things, it has been cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline industry has also been particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as economic recessions, jet fuel price volatility, unscheduled maintenance disruptions, outbreaks of disease and/or pandemics, supply chain challenges, U.S. government shutdowns, acts of terrorism or war, geopolitical unrest, severe weather, and natural disasters. In 2023, the U.S. airline industry continued to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic while facing challenges such as volatile fuel prices, inflationary cost pressures (particularly labor costs), delayed aircraft deliveries, labor availability (namely pilot availability), supply chain challenges, shifting travel demand patterns, economic uncertainty, disruptive weather events, and natural disasters such as the wildfires in Maui. Overall, the U.S. airline industry has experienced a strong recovery of domestic leisure travel demand since mid-2022, as reported COVID-19 cases declined throughout the United States and travel restrictions eased. International travel demand largely recovered to pre-pandemic levels in summer 2023. Business travel, while showing modest improvements over several years, remained at reduced levels throughout 2022 and 2023 compared with pre-pandemic levels, as corporate travel patterns continued to lag and evolve post-pandemic. In response to ever-evolving travel patterns, the Company and several other U.S. airlines have announced route network changes and slower capacity growth for early 2024, as compared with 2023 and/or previously announced plans. Historically, airline industry results have been particularly susceptible to fuel price volatility. Although jet fuel prices were slightly lower in 2023 as compared with 2022, they remain at high levels and continue to be subject to extreme volatility based on a variety of factors. Company Operations Route Structure Southwest has historically principally provided point-to-point service, rather than the hub-and-spoke service provided by most major U.S. airlines. A point-to-point system enables airlines to connect directly to destinations without providing a connecting service. By contrast, the hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline's operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. By not concentrating operations exclusively through one or more central transfer points, Southwest's route structure has allowed for more direct nonstop routing than a traditional hub-and-spoke service. While the Company does not operate a traditional hub-and-spoke model, in recent years the Company has increasingly focused on designing its network around core stations in an effort to provide greater connectivity, and support operational reliability and recoverability. Southwest s network blends intentional 3 Table of Contents connectivity offered by hub-and-spoke models and point-to-point nonstops, allowing the Company to capture nonstop demand and provide reliable one-stop itinerary options. Approximately 73 percent of the Company's Customers flew nonstop during 2023, compared with 74 percent during 2022 and 73 percent during 2021. As of December 31, 2023, Southwest served 805 nonstop city pairs, compared with 825 as of December 31, 2022, and 788 as of December 31, 2021. For 2023, the Company s average aircraft trip stage length was 730 miles, with an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours, as compared with an average aircraft trip stage length of 728 miles and an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours in 2022, and an average aircraft trip stage length of 790 miles and an average duration of approximately 2.1 hours in 2021. Southwest s unique route network has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers 12 weekday roundtrips between Dallas Love Field and Houston Hobby (and an additional 3 to Houston Bush), 5 weekday roundtrips between Denver and Chicago Midway (and an additional 4 to Chicago O'Hare), 7 weekday roundtrips between Los Angeles International and Las Vegas, 8 weekday round trips between Burbank and Oakland, and 13 weekday roundtrips between Phoenix and Denver. Southwest complements its high-frequency short-haul routes with mid-range and long-haul nonstop service, including flights between Hawaii and California, Las Vegas, and Phoenix, and between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, New York LaGuardia and Houston, Los Angeles and Baltimore, Oakland and Houston, and San Diego and Baltimore. The Company continually works to optimize its route network and schedule through the adjustment of flights in its existing markets and the addition of new markets and itineraries, while also pruning less profitable flights from its schedule. In 2023, the Company focused its efforts towards restoring the depth and breadth of its pre-pandemic network by adding back frequency in existing markets and reconnecting markets that have historically served as points of strength for the network. While the Company s network and aircraft utilization were restored to pre-pandemic levels in late 2023, the network was not fully optimized for post-pandemic travel patterns. The Company s near-term optimization efforts focus on evaluating its short-haul routes as business travel continues to lag pre-pandemic levels, offering the right number of flights at the right times of day, and reducing certain weekday flights to better match capacity to demand. The Company s unique route network allows for these adjustments without structurally disrupting its airports in core markets and other large cities. The Company also remains focused on maturing newer markets introduced during the pandemic. The Company entered 18 new destinations during 2020 and 2021, expanding its network to new Customer bases, leisure destinations, and geographic regions. These services have created additional regional and international connectivity structured to grow the Company's presence in strategic markets that serve as cornerstones for its network and provide additional options for Customers to reach their final destinations. To further improve international connectivity with its domestic network, the Company has announced its plans to shift the bulk of its international service in Fort Lauderdale to Orlando. Further, in October 2023, the Company announced its plans to moderate capacity growth in 2024 to better match demand and Customer travel patterns, as well as to absorb its capacity growth from 2023. Cost Structure A key component of the Company's business strategy is its focus on cost discipline and charging competitively low fares. The Company's low-cost strategy includes, among other elements, (i) the use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737 and (ii) the Company's route structure. Southwest's use of a single aircraft type has historically allowed for simplified scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, safety management, and training activities. Southwest's route structure includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines' hub airports, which has contributed to Southwest's ability to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This, in turn, has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and is designed to allow for higher Employee productivity over a long period of time. Given ever-evolving travel patterns and labor market challenges, the Company continues to focus on better optimizing its route network to support orderly, measured, and consistent growth, reducing inefficiencies, and improving Employee productivity and operational resilience. 4 Table of Contents The Company's focus on controlling costs also includes a continued commitment to pursuing, implementing, and enhancing initiatives to reduce fuel consumption and improve fuel efficiency (available seat miles per fuel gallon consumed). The Company focuses on minimizing fuel consumption and improving fuel efficiency through fleet modernization and other fuel initiatives. For example, in 2023, the Company added 86 Boeing 737 MAX 8 ( -8 ) aircraft to its fleet, with the goal of lowering operating costs, improving potential growth opportunities, restoring the Company's network to pre-pandemic levels, reducing carbon emissions per available seat mile, and further modernizing the Company's fleet with more fuel-efficient aircraft. Fuel and oil expense can be extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. Although the Company s jet fuel prices per gallon were slightly lower in 2023, as compared with 2022, they remain at high historical levels. The Company s Fuel and oil expense for 2023 increased compared with 2022, primarily due to increased gallons of fuel consumed, largely from increased trips. Fuel and oil expense remained the Company's second largest operating cost category for 2023. As evidenced by the table below, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. The table below shows the Company's average cost of jet fuel inclusive of fuel taxes and fuel hedging impacts, for each year beginning in 2011 and during each quarter of 2023. Year Cost (Millions) Average Cost Per Gallon Percentage of Operating Expenses 2011 $ 5,751 $ 3.25 38.2 % 2012 $ 6,156 $ 3.32 37.3 % 2013 $ 5,823 $ 3.19 35.3 % 2014 $ 5,355 $ 2.97 32.6 % 2015 $ 3,740 $ 1.96 23.6 % 2016 $ 3,801 $ 1.90 22.7 % 2017 $ 4,076 $ 1.99 23.0 % 2018 $ 4,616 $ 2.20 24.6 % 2019 $ 4,347 $ 2.09 22.3 % 2020 $ 1,849 $ 1.45 14.4 % 2021 $ 3,310 $ 1.98 23.5 % 2022 $ 5,975 $ 3.10 26.2 % 2023 $ 6,217 $ 2.89 24.0 % First Quarter 2023 $ 1,547 $ 3.19 25.8 % Second Quarter 2023 $ 1,403 $ 2.60 22.5 % Third Quarter 2023 $ 1,564 $ 2.80 24.4 % Fourth Quarter 2023 $ 1,703 $ 3.01 23.6 % The Company s fuel efficiency was aided in 2023, as compared with 2022, through the addition of 86 -8 aircraft to its fleet and by the retirement of 39 of its oldest, least fuel-efficient Boeing 737-700 ( -700 ) aircraft. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had 223 -8 aircraft in its fleet. The Company is also scheduled to begin receiving the Boeing 737 MAX -7 ( -7 ) in 2024. In fourth quarter 2023, the Company entered into supplemental agreements (the Supplements ) to its purchase agreement with The Boeing Company ( Boeing ) relating to the Company's purchase of -8 and -7 aircraft (collectively, MAX aircraft ). Pursuant to the Supplements, the Company amended its order book delivery schedule to better allocate aircraft deliveries for orderly and measured growth, to extend its firm orders through 2031, and to add 108 firm orders and 108 MAX aircraft options. The Company retired 39 Boeing -700 aircraft in 2023 and currently plans for 49 aircraft retirements in 2024. The Company held 199 remaining MAX options as of December 31, 2023, in addition to 495 firm orders of MAX aircraft to be delivered through 2031. The Company retains significant flexibility to manage its fleet size, including opportunities to accelerate fleet modernization efforts (e.g., through accelerated retirements of the Company's -700 aircraft) if growth opportunities do not materialize. For further information regarding the Company s aircraft contractual order 5 Table of Contents book see Properties and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The delivery schedule for the -7 is dependent on the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) issuing required certifications and approvals to Boeing and the Company. The FAA will ultimately determine the timing of the -7 certification and entry into service, and the Company therefore offers no assurances that current estimations and timelines are correct. The Company continues to undertake a number of other fuel conservation initiatives, which are discussed in detail under Environmental Sustainability. The table below sets forth the Company's available seat miles produced per fuel gallon consumed (fuel-efficiency) over the last five years: Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 Available seat miles per fuel gallon consumed 79.5 77.3 79.2 81.3 75.7 The Company also enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant increases in fuel prices. The Company's fuel hedging activities, as well as the risks associated with high and/or volatile fuel prices, are discussed in more detail below under Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Salaries, wages, and benefits expense constituted approximately 43 percent of the Company's operating expenses in 2023 and was the Company's largest operating cost category. The Company's ability to control labor costs is largely limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs from recently ratified contracts and rate inflation have negatively impacted both the Company's low-cost structure and the overall airline industry s costs. The Company's labor costs, and risks associated therewith, are discussed in more detail below under Business Employees, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Operational Disruption Action Plan In late December 2022, the Company experienced a wide-scale operational disruption as historically extreme winter weather spread across a significant portion of the United States, impacting the Company s operational plan and flight schedules. After Winter Storm Elliott, the Company was challenged to realign flight crews, flight schedules, and aircraft for a period of several days during this peak demand travel period. This disruption and subsequent recovery efforts resulted in the cancellation of more than 16,700 flights during the period from December 21 through December 31, 2022. As discussed below under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the December 2022 operational disruption had a significant negative impact on the Company s results of operations in fourth quarter 2022 and first quarter 2023. For first quarter 2023, these events created a deceleration in bookings, primarily isolated to January and February 2023, as well as increased expenses, primarily in the form of reimbursing Customers for costs incurred as a result of the flight cancellations. Following these events, the Company conducted a thorough internal review, working with the Company's Board of Directors (the Board ), and engaged respected aviation consulting firm Oliver Wyman for a third-party assessment. To boost operational resiliency in key areas across the Company and to mitigate the risk of recurrence, the Company developed a three-part tactical action plan focused on improving winter operations, accelerating operational-related investments, and enhancing cross-team collaboration. The Company s action plan was released in March 2023 and key winter operations steps were completed as of October 2023. Improve Winter Operations During 2023, the Company reinforced its airport infrastructure, increased available equipment, and bolstered overall winter preparedness at key airports with the potential for severe winter weather. The major initiatives included 6 Table of Contents increasing available equipment to manage the effects of winter weather, such as deicing trucks, deicing pads, and ground equipment; storage capacity of deicing fluid at key airports; and engine covers and heaters to protect aircraft and ground equipment in very low temperatures. Additionally, the Company increased staffing across the network to support busy travel periods and to assist at airports where extreme cold requires rotating Employees working outside more frequently. The Company also enhanced its winter operations training. Further, the Company invested in tools and processes to support critical decision making during the winter season, such as improving its holdover capabilities (including introduction of a liquid water equivalent system to better gauge dynamic local weather conditions and provide more precise information for Pilots and Dispatchers) and refining ramp-cleaning procedures to better keep surfaces free of frozen precipitation. Accelerate Operational Investments Following the December 2022 operational disruption, the Company reprioritized its timeline for upgrading tools and technology expected to help recover operations faster during irregular operations. During 2023, the Company completed multiple Crew technology enhancements, including upgrades to the software that reassigns Crews during disruptions and bolstered phone system call capacity to better handle large call volumes from both Flight Crews and Customers. The Company is also improving the tool responsible for electronically notifying Flight Crews of their new flight assignments and allowing them to electronically acknowledge changes in their work plan. Additionally, the Company is continuing to enhance the ways Customers stay informed about the location and status of their bags. Enhance Cross-Team Collaboration The Company has enhanced collaboration across its Teams and improved the tools and procedures to streamline communication and decision-making. For instance, during 2023 the Company combined the Team who designs its flight schedule with the Team overseeing the network operations control in order to closely align network design and execution. Further, the Company implemented enhanced real-time dashboards for increased visibility to better monitor the health of the network. The Company also enhanced capabilities to alert, define, and escalate awareness of potential issues and established clearer lines of communication among the groups operating the airline. Finally, the Company invested in new cross-collaboration processes and optimization tools focused on decision making associated with irregular operations adjustments. While the Company completed the key items in its action plan, no assurance can be given that these efforts to boost operational resiliency in key areas across the Company will be successful in eliminating the risk of recurrence. The Company continues to monitor and improve its operations, but it cannot ensure that the changes the Company has made, given the complexity of the airline network, would prevent significant operational disruptions in the future or allow the Company to perform as well as or better than its competitors. See Risk Factors Operational Risks for additional information. Fare Structure General Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features competitive fares and product benefits, including unrestricted fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest fare products include four major categories: Wanna Get Away , Wanna Get Away Plus , Anytime, and Business Select , to provide Customers options when choosing a fare. All fare products include the privilege of two free checked bags (weight and size limits apply). Southwest does not charge fees for cancellations or changes to flight reservations, although fare differences may apply. Wanna Get Away fares are generally the lowest fares and are often subject to advance purchase requirements. They are non-refundable, but, subject to Southwest s No-Show Policy, flight credit for the fare paid for unused travel by the Customer ( flight credit ) may be applied towards future travel on 7 Table of Contents Southwest. Subject to Southwest s No-Show Policy, Wanna Get Away fares also enable a same-day standby listing, free of airline charges, if there is another flight that departs on the same day as the original flight and is between the same origin and destination airports, but the Customer is required to pay any additional government taxes and fees associated with voluntary changes in their itinerary. Under Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program, Wanna Get Away fares earn six Rapid Rewards points for each dollar spent on the base fare. The Company s loyalty program is discussed below under Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program. Wanna Get Away Plus fares are often subject to advance purchase requirements. They are non-refundable, but, subject to Southwest s No-Show Policy, flight credit may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. Wanna Get Away Plus fares earn eight Rapid Rewards points for each dollar spent on the base fare. Wanna Get Away Plus fares offer Transferable Flight Credit that enables Customers to transfer an eligible unused flight credit to another traveler for future use. Both travelers must be Rapid Rewards members and only one transfer is permitted. For bookings through a Southwest Business (corporate travel) channel, a transfer may only be made to an employee of the same organization. Subject to Southwest s No-Show Policy, Wanna Get Away Plus fares also enable a same-day confirmed change, free of airline charges, if there is an open seat on another flight that departs on the same day as the original flight and is between the same origin and destination airports, but the Customer is required to pay any additional government taxes and fees associated with voluntary changes in their itinerary. If there is no open seat on this different flight, a traveler may request to be added to the standby list for that flight. Anytime fares may be subject to advance purchase requirements. They are refundable if canceled, subject to Southwest s No-Show Policy, or flight credit may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with non-refundable flight credit, then the resulting flight credit will be non-refundable if travel is canceled. Anytime fares earn 10 Rapid Rewards points for each dollar spent on the base fare. Anytime fares also receive EarlyBird Check-In . See Ancillary Services below for further information about EarlyBird Check-In. Additionally, Anytime fares receive Priority Lane and Express Lane access through check-in and security lines where available. Further, Anytime fares receive all of the benefits of Wanna Get Away Plus fares, including Transferable Flight Credit and same-day confirmed changes and standby. Business Select fares may be subject to advance purchase requirements. They are refundable if canceled, subject to Southwest s No-Show Policy, or flight credit may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with non-refundable flight credit, then the resulting flight credit will be non-refundable if travel is canceled. Business Select fares also include additional perks such as priority boarding with a boarding position in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group A, 12 Rapid Rewards points per dollar spent on the base fare the highest loyalty point multiplier of all Southwest fare products, one complimentary premium beverage coupon for the day of travel (Customers must be of legal drinking age to drink alcoholic beverages), and free Inflight Internet service on Wi-Fi enabled aircraft, where available. Business Select fares also receive all of the benefits of Anytime fares, including Priority Lane and Express Lane access through check-in and security lines where available, Transferable Flight Credit, and same-day confirmed changes and standby. Southwest s No-Show Policy applies if a Customer does not change or cancel a flight segment at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure and the Customer does not travel on the scheduled flight. In such event, subject to certain exceptions, all unflown segments associated with the reservation will be canceled, and (i) with respect to a Wanna Get Away and Wanna Get Away Plus fares, the fare paid for unused travel will be forfeited; and (ii) with respect to Anytime and Business Select fares, the fare paid for unused travel will be held as a flight credit for future travel on Southwest. In order to enhance and expand upon its already generous and flexible ticketing policies, the Company announced in July 2022 that flight credits will no longer expire. The Company continues to expect that this policy change, combined with its other attractive brand attributes, will contribute to an increase in Customer loyalty. Flight credits for non-refundable fares are issued as long as the reservation is cancelled more than ten minutes prior to the scheduled departure. Flight credits or refunds for refundable fares are issued regardless of cancellation time. 8 Table of Contents Ancillary Services The Company offers ancillary services such as Southwest s EarlyBird Check-In , Upgraded Boarding, and transportation of pets and unaccompanied minors, in accordance with Southwest s respective policies. EarlyBird Check-In provides Customers with automatic check-in and an assigned boarding position before general boarding positions become available, thereby improving Customers seat selection options (priority boarding privileges are already a benefit of being an A-List or A-List Preferred tier member under the Company s Rapid Rewards loyalty program). EarlyBird Check-In pricing is based on multiple factors, including the length of the flight and the historical popularity of EarlyBird Check-In on the route. When available, Southwest sells Upgraded Boarding at the airport or on Customer mobile devices, which allows a Customer to pay for an open priority boarding position in the first 15 positions in its A boarding group. Southwest s Pet Policy provides Customers an opportunity to travel with a small cat or dog in the aircraft cabin on domestic flights. Southwest also has an unaccompanied minor travel policy, with pricing to address the administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program Southwest s Rapid Rewards loyalty program enables program members ( Members ) to earn points for every dollar spent on Southwest base fares, also including purchases paid with LUV Vouchers, gift cards, or flight credit, with no portion of the purchase price paid with Rapid Rewards points. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the base fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g., Wanna Get Away). As discussed above under Fare Structure General, each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the base fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. The amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the base fare and a mul