Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 44 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Liquidity and Capital Resources 69 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 72 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 76 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 80 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Balance Sheet 80 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) 81 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 82 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity 83 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 84 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 85 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 134 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 134 Item 9B. Other Information 135 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 135 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 136 Item 11. Executive Compensation 136 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 137 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 137 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 137 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 139 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 142 Signatures 143 2 Table of Contents -PART I- Item 1. Business Company Overview Southwest Airlines Co. (the "Company" or "Southwest") operates Southwest Airlines, a major passenger airline that provides scheduled air transportation in the United States and near-international markets. Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. At December 31, 2021, Southwest had a total of 728 Boeing 737 aircraft in its fleet and 121 destinations in 42 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and ten near-international countries: Mexico, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Aruba, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Belize, Cuba, the Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos. During 2021, the Company began service to 14 new destinations including Chicago (O'Hare), Illinois; Houston (Bush), Texas; Jackson, Mississippi; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Savannah, Georgia/Hilton Head, South Carolina; Sarasota, Florida; Santa Barbara, California; Fresno, California; Destin, Florida; Bozeman, Montana; Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; Eugene, Oregon; Bellingham, Washington; and Syracuse, New York. Worldwide Pandemic In March 2020, the World Health Organization classified the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, as a pandemic. The speed with which the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic changed the U.S. economic landscape, outlook, and in particular the travel industry, was swift and unexpected and resulted in a significant negative impact on travel demand, revenues, and bookings throughout 2020. The Company responded by cancelling a significant portion of its scheduled flights, grounding a significant portion of its fleet, significantly reducing planned capital spending, and significantly reducing its previously scheduled capacity. Further, the Company substantially enhanced its cash holdings by obtaining significant financing in the capital markets, through payroll funding support ("Payroll Support") with the U.S. Department of Treasury ("Treasury"), and elsewhere. In addition, the Company offered voluntary separation and extended time-off programs for its Employees, which significantly reduced the Company's active headcount. The Company continued to experience negative and unpredictable fluctuating pandemic-related impacts to passenger demand and bookings in 2021. Modest improvements in leisure bookings began in mid-February 2021 and further improved in March 2021. Travel demand and bookings accelerated during second quarter 2021 as a result of declining reported COVID-19 cases throughout the United States, the easing of travel restrictions, and an increase in the number of individuals vaccinated. Despite some softness in bookings and elevated trip cancellations due to surging COVID-19 cases in August and September as a result of the Delta variant, and in December as a result of the Omicron variant, third quarter and fourth quarter 2021 domestic leisure demand was also strong and a dramatic improvement from 2020. The unpredictable fluctuating extent of the travel demand improvement over the course of 2021, combined with the reduction in the Company's available workforce, contributed to operational challenges and resulting declines in the Company's operational performance as the Company struggled to return to the staffing levels necessary for operational demands. In response, the Company continued its efforts to correspondingly adjust capacity throughout 2021 and into first quarter 2022. In addition, the Company aggressively hired new Employees in third and fourth quarter 2021, and is continuing these efforts in 2022, to balance its schedule with its crew and ground operations resources. For further information on risks related to COVID-19, as well as the significant impacts of COVID-19 on the Company's operations, financial performance, and liquidity, see "Risk Factors," "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Notes 2, 7, and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Table of Contents Industry As discussed above under "Business Worldwide Pandemic," the travel industry was adversely impacted in 2020 and 2021 by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the recent Delta and Omicron variants. Like the Company, other U.S. airlines experienced significant negative impacts to passenger demand and revenues; however the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on some of these airlines was particularly severe because of the percentage of their operations that had historically been dependent on business and international travel, each of which suffered particular harm as a result of the pandemic. Demand for business travel declined significantly due to companies tightening or even suspending corporate travel. This not only reduced overall demand for air travel, but also resulted in a decrease in the percentage of full-fare purchases. Demand for international travel was significantly harmed by the imposition of international travel restrictions. Like the Company, these other airlines responded with adjustments to their flight schedules, capacity, operating costs and capital expenditures, and fleet plans. Unlike the Company, certain other airlines also furloughed employees and/or ceased service in certain markets. Like the Company, other U.S. airlines began to mitigate cash losses and recover from the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, while facing challenges such as the Delta and Omicron variants, lower passenger revenue yields (i.e., pricing), higher fuel prices and other cost inflation, and surges in leisure travel demand against constrained personnel resources resulting in operational challenges. Overall, the U.S. airline industry saw a strong recovery of domestic leisure travel demand during peak travel periods in 2021 as a result of declining reported COVID-19 cases throughout the United States, the easing of travel restrictions, and an increase in the number of individuals vaccinated against COVID-19. However, business travel remained at a significantly reduced level throughout 2021, as compared with pre-pandemic levels. The airline industry has historically been an extremely volatile industry subject to numerous other challenges. Among other things, it has been cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline industry has also been particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as economic recessions, jet fuel price volatility, unscheduled maintenance disruptions, U.S. government shutdowns, acts of terrorism, poor weather, and natural disasters. Historically, airline industry results have been particularly susceptible to fuel price volatility. In 2021, the industry experienced a very challenging fuel environment, as compared with recent years, with year-over-year fuel prices significantly higher throughout most of 2021. Company Operations Route Structure Southwest has historically principally provided point-to-point service, rather than the "hub-and-spoke" service provided by most major U.S. airlines. The hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline's operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. By not concentrating operations through one or more central transfer points, Southwest's point-to-point route structure has allowed for more direct nonstop routing than hub-and-spoke service. However, in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company placed greater reliance in 2020 and 2021 on connecting traffic in an effort to capture Customer demand. Approximately 73 percent of the Company's Customers flew nonstop during 2021, compared with 72 percent during 2020, and compared with 77 percent during 2019, and, as of December 31, 2021, Southwest served 788 nonstop city pairs, compared with 667 as of December 31, 2020, and compared with 720 as of December 31, 2019. For 2021, the Company s average aircraft trip stage length was 790 miles, with an average duration of approximately 2.1 hours, as compared with an average aircraft trip stage length of 743 miles and an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours in 2020, and as compared with an average aircraft trip stage length of 748 miles and an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours in 2019. 4 Table of Contents Southwest s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers ten weekday roundtrips between Dallas Love Field and Houston Hobby (and an additional six to Houston Bush), seven weekday roundtrips between Denver and Chicago Midway (and an additional six to Chicago O'Hare), seven weekday roundtrips between Los Angeles International and Las Vegas, twelve weekday round trips between Burbank and Oakland, and nine weekday roundtrips between Phoenix and Denver. Southwest complements its high-frequency short-haul routes with long-haul nonstop service including flights between Hawaii and California, Las Vegas, and Phoenix, and between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Los Angeles and Baltimore, Oakland and Houston, Las Vegas and Orlando, and San Diego and Baltimore. The Company continually works to optimize its route network and schedule through the adjustment of frequencies in its existing markets and the addition of new markets and itineraries, while also pruning less profitable flights from its schedule. The Company's network and schedule optimization efforts have been particularly beneficial in addressing the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, these efforts have enabled the Company to continue to add cities in key existing markets, such as California, as well as opportunistically introduce service in other markets during the pandemic. As part of the Company's recovery from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company remains focused on restoring its network to pre-pandemic levels through adding back depth and frequency to the Company's network while balancing its network schedule with its crew resources. Despite the pandemic, the Company has been able to continue to bolster its presence in California through the addition of new destination options and flights for California Customers. In 2021, the Company added many new destinations to its route map, including new California service to Santa Barbara and Fresno. Further, the Company expanded its California to Hawaii network in 2021 by adding inaugural service between Los Angeles and Hawaii in June 2021. The Company also added inaugural service to Hawaii from Las Vegas and Phoenix in June 2021. The Company also expanded its service at John Wayne Airport (Orange County) in 2021, including reinstated international service beginning in March 2021. In addition, the Company is currently scheduled to offer over 700 departures from California on peak flying days in the summer of 2022. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation (the "DOT"), for the year ended September 30, 2021, Southwest carried more California travelers to, from, and within California than any other airline. The Company's network and schedule optimization efforts have also enabled it to use otherwise idle aircraft, while overall travel demand has been reduced. This, in turn, has enabled the Company to better optimize its service amongst its core markets and, in 2021, it enabled the Company to provide service to 14 new destinations. The additional service has created additional regional and international connectivity that has been structured to grow the Company's presence in strategic markets that serve as cornerstones for its network and provide additional options for Customers to reach their final destinations. The Company expects to complement and strengthen its existing route network in or near cities where its Customer base is large, along with adding easier access to popular leisure-oriented destinations. The COVID-19 pandemic had a particularly negative impact on the Company's international operations and led to the Company's suspension of international operations at the beginning of the pandemic. The Company has since resumed service to 13 of its 14 international destinations. The Company s operations to the Cayman Islands are temporarily suspended due to impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, but with the easing of government restrictions and the continued increase in demand for beach and leisure destinations, the Company intends to resume service to the Cayman Islands in 2022. Boeing 737 MAX In March 2019, the Federal Aviation Administration (the "FAA") issued an emergency order for all U.S. airlines to ground all Boeing 737 MAX ("MAX") aircraft. The Company immediately complied with the order and grounded all 34 Boeing 737 MAX 8 ("-8") aircraft in its fleet. In November 2020, the FAA rescinded the emergency order and issued official requirements to enable U.S. airlines to return the MAX to service. The Company returned the MAX to service in March 2021, after the Company met all FAA requirements and Pilots received updated, MAX- 5 Table of Contents related training. Following the FAA rescission of the emergency order, the Company took delivery of 35 -8 aircraft through the end of 2021 and had 69 -8 aircraft in its fleet at 2021 year-end. During 2021, the Company entered into supplemental agreements with The Boeing Company ("Boeing") to increase its 2022 firm orders of Boeing 737 MAX 7 ("-7") aircraft, accelerate options into 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025, and add new options in 2026 and 2027, in each case with the goal of improving potential growth opportunities, restoring the Company's network closer to pre-pandemic levels, lowering operating costs, reducing carbon emissions per available seat mile, and further modernizing the Company's fleet with more fuel efficient aircraft. Additionally, during 2021, the Company exercised 42 2022 options for -7 aircraft and exercised 22 2023 options for -7 aircraft. Fleet and capacity plans will continue to evolve as the Company manages through the pandemic recovery period, and the Company will continue to evaluate its remaining MAX options. However, with its cost-effective order book, the Company retains significant flexibility to manage its fleet size, including opportunities to accelerate fleet modernization efforts if growth opportunities do not materialize. The Company continues to plan for 30-35 Boeing 737-700 retirements annually. Additional information regarding the Company's current fleet and fleet delivery schedule is included in "Item 2 Properties" below. The delivery schedule for the -7 is dependent on the FAA issuing required certifications and approvals to Boeing and the Company. The FAA will ultimately determine the timing of the -7 certification and entry into service, and the Company therefore offers no assurances that current estimations and timelines are correct. Cost Structure A key component of the Company's business strategy is its focus on cost discipline and charging competitively low fares. The Company's low-cost strategy includes, among other elements, (i) the use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737, (ii) the Company's point-to-point route structure, and (iii) its highly productive Employees. Southwest's use of a single aircraft type has historically allowed for simplified scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, safety management, and training activities. Southwest's point-to-point route structure includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines' hub airports, which has contributed to Southwest's ability to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This, in turn, has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (lower headcount per aircraft). The Company's focus on controlling costs also includes a continued commitment to pursuing, implementing, and enhancing initiatives to reduce fuel consumption and improve fuel efficiency. The Company focuses on minimizing fuel consumption and improving fuel efficiency through fleet modernization and other fuel initiatives. For example, in 2021 the Company returned its -8 aircraft to service, which are more fuel-efficient and release fewer CO 2 emissions per available seat mile than the Company's other aircraft. 6 Table of Contents Fuel and oil expense can be extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. Fuel and oil expense for 2021 increased significantly compared with 2020, primarily due to higher market jet fuel prices, and in part due to higher capacity in response to consumer demand. Fuel and oil expense remained the Company's second largest operating cost for 2021. As evidenced by the table below, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. The table below shows the Company's average cost of jet fuel for each year beginning in 2011 and during each quarter of 2021. Year Cost (Millions) Average Cost Per Gallon Percentage of Operating Expenses 2011 $ 5,751 $ 3.25 38.2 % 2012 $ 6,156 $ 3.32 37.3 % 2013 $ 5,823 $ 3.19 35.3 % 2014 $ 5,355 $ 2.97 32.6 % 2015 $ 3,740 $ 1.96 23.6 % 2016 $ 3,801 $ 1.90 22.7 % 2017 $ 4,076 $ 1.99 23.0 % 2018 $ 4,616 $ 2.20 24.6 % 2019 $ 4,347 $ 2.09 22.3 % 2020 $ 1,849 $ 1.45 14.4 % 2021 $ 3,310 $ 1.98 23.5 % First Quarter 2021 $ 469 $ 1.63 25.3 % Second Quarter 2021 $ 803 $ 1.88 23.5 % Third Quarter 2021 $ 990 $ 2.01 25.1 % Fourth Quarter 2021 $ 1,049 $ 2.25 21.6 % The MAX groundings in early 2019 resulted in the removal of these more fuel-efficient aircraft from the Company's schedule, which, in turn, drove a decline in the Company's overall fuel efficiency in 2019. Although the Company's MAX aircraft remained grounded throughout 2020, the Company improved its fuel efficiency in 2020, as compared with 2019, primarily by operating fewer of its oldest, least fuel-efficient Boeing 737-700 aircraft as a result of capacity cuts in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Lower load factors, due to COVID-19, also contributed to fuel efficiency during 2020. Despite the return to service of the MAX aircraft, the Company's 2021 fuel efficiency declined, as compared with 2020, due to higher load factors and the Company's return to service of more of its oldest, least fuel efficient Boeing 737-700 aircraft, which had been placed into storage in 2020 due to capacity cuts in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company continues to undertake a number of other fuel conservation initiatives, which are discussed in detail under "Environmental Sustainability." The table below sets forth the Company's available seat miles produced per fuel gallon consumed over the last five years: Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 Available seat miles per fuel gallon consumed 79.2 81.3 75.7 76.3 75.2 The Company also enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant increases in fuel prices. The Company's fuel hedging activities, as well as the risks associated with high and/or volatile fuel prices, are discussed in more detail below under "Risk Factors," "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Salaries, wages, and benefits expense constituted approximately 55.0 percent of the Company's operating expenses during 2021 and was the Company's largest operating cost. The Company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the Company's low-cost competitive position. The Company's labor costs, and risks associated therewith, are discussed 7 Table of Contents in more detail below under "Risk Factors," "Business - Employees," and "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Fare Structure General Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features competitive fares and product benefits, including unrestricted fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest fare products include three major categories: "Wanna Get Away ," "Anytime," and "Business Select ," to provide Customers options when choosing a fare. All fare products include the privilege of two free checked bags (weight and size limits apply). Southwest does not charge fees for changes to flight reservations although fare differences may apply. "Wanna Get Away" fares are generally the lowest fares and are typically subject to advance purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable, but, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, flight credit for the fare paid for unused travel by the Customer ("flight credit") may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. Wanna Get Away fares earn six Rapid Rewards points, under Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program, for each dollar spent on the base fare. The Company's loyalty program is discussed below under "Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program." "Anytime" fares are, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, refundable if canceled, or flight credit may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with nonrefundable flight credit, then the resulting flight credit will be nonrefundable if travel is canceled. Anytime fares earn 10 Rapid Rewards points for each dollar spent on the base fare. "Business Select" fares are, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, refundable if canceled, or flight credit may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with nonrefundable flight credit, then the resulting flight credit will be nonrefundable if travel is canceled. Business Select fares also include additional perks such as priority boarding with a boarding position in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group "A," 12 Rapid Rewards points per dollar spent on the base fare - the highest loyalty point multiplier of all Southwest fare products, and "Fly By " priority security and/or ticket counter access in participating airports. Business Select fares also ordinarily include one complimentary premium beverage coupon for the day of travel (Customers must be of legal drinking age to drink alcoholic beverages); however, the Company has temporarily suspended premium drink service in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Southwest's No Show Policy applies if a Customer does not change or cancel a flight segment at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure and the Customer does not travel on the scheduled flight. In such event, subject to certain exceptions, all segments associated with the reservation will be canceled, and (i) with respect to a "Wanna Get Away" fare, the fare paid for unused travel will be forfeited; and (ii) with respect to an "Anytime" or "Business Select" fare, the fare paid for unused travel will be held as a flight credit for future travel on Southwest. The Company has announced plans to add a new, fourth fare product that enhances the overall product offering for Customers. The Company also currently plans to increase benefits tied to existing fare product categories at various times in the future. The anticipated launch date for the new fare product is during second quarter 2022. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to enhance and expand upon its already generous and flexible ticketing policies, the Company extended the expiration of the following Customer flight credits to September 7, 2022: Flight credits created because of a flight cancellation between March 1, 2020 and September 7, 2020; and Flight credits that would have expired between March 1, 2020 and September 7, 2020. 8 Table of Contents Ancillary Services The Company offers ancillary services such as Southwest's EarlyBird Check-In , Upgraded Boarding, and transportation of pets and unaccompanied minors, in accordance with Southwest's respective policies. EarlyBird Check-In provides Customers with automatic check-in and an assigned boarding position before general boarding positions become available, thereby improving Customers' seat selection options (priority boarding privileges are already a benefit of being an "A-List" tier member under the Company's Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program). The Company has implemented a variable pricing model for EarlyBird Check-In based on the length of the flight and the historical popularity of EarlyBird Check-In on the route. When available, Southwest sells Upgraded Boarding at the airport, which allows a Customer to pay for an open priority boarding position in the first 15 positions in its "A" boarding group. Southwest s Pet Policy provides Customers an opportunity to travel with a small cat or dog in the aircraft cabin on domestic flights. Southwest also has an unaccompanied minor travel policy, with pricing to address the administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. Inflight Entertainment Portal and WiFi Service Southwest offers inflight entertainment and connectivity service on WiFi-enabled aircraft on the majority of its fleet, where available. Southwest's suite of complimentary offerings onboard WiFi-enabled aircraft includes movies-on-demand, messaging, music, live and on-demand television, a flight tracker, and connecting flight information. The inflight entertainment service allows Customers to enjoy gate-to-gate entertainment directly on their personal wireless devices. Customers can also purchase satellite internet service while on WiFi-enabled aircraft, where available. The free inflight entertainment offerings include approximately 45 free movies-on-demand each month and free app messaging via iMessage or WhatsApp. The television product consists of over 15 live channels and up to 75 on-demand recorded episodes from popular television series. In addition, the onboard entertainment portal offers free digital music and live streaming radio service to Customers within the onboard entertainment portal. Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program enables program members ("Members") to earn points for every dollar spent on Southwest base fares, also including purchases paid with LUV Vouchers, gift cards, or flight credit, with no portion of the purchase price paid with Rapid Rewards points. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the base fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g., Wanna Get Away). As discussed above under "Fare Structure - General," each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the base fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. The amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the base fare and a multiplier. Under the program, (i) Members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire. Under the program, Members continue to accumulate points until the time they decide to redeem them. As a result, the program provides Members significant flexibility and options for earning and redeeming rewards. For example, Members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as A-List and Companion Pass faster) by purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have significant flexibility in redeeming points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare ticket (including many fare sales) and redeem fewer points or by being able to redeem more points and book at the last minute if seats are still available for sale. Members can also earn 