Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Liquidity and Capital Resources 51 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments 52 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Balance Sheet 64 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Income 65 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 66 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity 67 Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 68 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 69 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 115 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 115 Item 9B. Other Information 116 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 117 Item 11. Executive Compensation 117 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 117 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 118 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 118 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 119 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 Signatures 125 2 PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview Southwest Airlines Co. (the "Company" or "Southwest") operates Southwest Airlines, a major passenger airline that provides scheduled air transportation in the United States and near-international markets. Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. At December 31, 2019, Southwest had a total of 747 Boeing 737 aircraft in its fleet and served 101 destinations in 40 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and ten near-international countries: Mexico, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Aruba, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Belize, Cuba, the Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos. In 2019, the Company began service to four destinations in Hawaii after receiving approval from the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") for Extended Operations ("ETOPS"), a regulatory requirement to operate between the U.S. mainland and the Hawaiian Islands. These destinations included Honolulu on the Island of Oahu, Kahului on Maui, Kona on Hawaii, and Lihue on Kauai. The Company added a fifth Hawaiian destination, Hilo on Hawaii, on January 19, 2020. The Company has also announced its decision to begin serving Cozumel International Airport, subject to requisite government approvals, with service scheduled to begin March 7, 2020. During first quarter 2019, the Company ceased service at Benito Ju rez Mexico City International Airport. Further, in fourth quarter 2019, the Company ceased service at Newark Liberty International Airport, in order to consolidate its New York City presence at New York LaGuardia Airport. On March 13, 2019, the FAA issued an emergency order for all U.S. airlines to ground the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, including the 34 MAX 8 aircraft in the Company s fleet at that time (the "MAX groundings"). As discussed below under "Company Operations" and "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the MAX groundings adversely affected the Company's operations and financial results for the year ended December 31, 2019. The MAX aircraft remains grounded and, based on continued uncertainty around the timing of the MAX return to service, the Company has removed the MAX from its flight schedule through June 6, 2020. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation (the "DOT"), as of September 30, 2019, Southwest was the largest domestic air carrier in the United States, as measured by the number of domestic originating passengers boarded. Industry The airline industry has historically been an extremely volatile industry subject to numerous challenges. Among other things, it has been cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline industry has also been particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as economic recessions, jet fuel price volatility, unscheduled maintenance disruptions, U.S. government shutdowns, acts of terrorism, poor weather, and natural disasters. The MAX groundings and the uncertainty of the timing of the MAX aircraft's return to service caused air carriers with the MAX aircraft in their fleets, including Southwest, to remove the aircraft from their flight schedules through 2019, reducing available seat miles (also referred to as "capacity," an available seat mile is one seat, empty or full, flown one mile and is a measure of space available to carry passengers in a given period). This, in turn, led to slower aggregate industry growth. MAX-impacted carriers also experienced lost revenues and unforecasted expenses as a result of the MAX groundings. As discussed further below under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the Company's capacity declined 1.6 percent year-over-year for 2019. It remains uncertain how long MAX-impacted carriers will be unable to fly the MAX. The U.S. airline industry continued to benefit from modest (although declining) economic growth during 2019, despite a very competitive domestic fare environment. The airline industry also experienced a relatively stable and moderate fuel environment in 2019, as compared with recent years, with year-over-year fuel prices lower throughout most of 2019. 3 During recent years, the airline industry has continued to be impacted by the significant growth of "Ultra-Low Cost Carriers" ("ULCCs"). ULCCs provide "unbundled" service offerings, which enable them to appeal to price-sensitive travelers through promotion to consumers of an extremely low relative base fare for a seat, while separately charging for related services and products. In response, most major U.S. airlines offer expanded cabin segmentation fare products, such as a "basic economy" product. The basic economy product provides for a lower base fare to compete with a ULCC base fare, but may include significant additional restrictions on amenities such as seat assignments (including restrictions on group and family seating), order of boarding, checked baggage and use of overhead bin space, flight changes and refunds, and eligibility for upgrades. Also in response to competitive ULCC pricing, some carriers no longer have fare floors for certain routes, leading to a lower fare offering across the industry. Further, to better derive revenue from customers, some carriers offer a "premium economy" fare that targets consumers willing to pay a premium for certain amenities that were previously included in the carriers' base fare (e.g., more favorable seating locations in the main cabin). Company Operations Route Structure Southwest principally provides point-to-point service, rather than the "hub-and-spoke" service provided by most major U.S. airlines. The hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline's operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. By not concentrating operations through one or more central transfer points, Southwest's point-to-point route structure has allowed for more direct nonstop routing than hub-and-spoke service. The Company continues to focus on adding depth to schedule offerings in certain key cities, which is expected to benefit operational efficiency and give Customers additional options to reach their final destination. Approximately 77 percent of the Company's Customers flew nonstop during 2019, and, as of December 31, 2019, Southwest served 720 nonstop city pairs. For 2019, the Company s average aircraft trip stage length was 748 miles, with an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours, as compared with an average aircraft trip stage length of 757 miles and an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours in 2018. Southwest s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers 21 weekday roundtrips between Dallas Love Field and Houston Hobby, 13 weekday roundtrips between Burbank and Oakland, 16 weekday roundtrips between San Diego and San Jose, eight weekday roundtrips between Denver and Chicago Midway, and 10 weekday roundtrips between Los Angeles International and Las Vegas. Southwest complements its high-frequency short-haul routes with long-haul nonstop service including flights between California and Hawaii and between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and Orlando, San Diego and Baltimore, Houston and New York LaGuardia, and Oakland and Baltimore. The Company continually works to optimize its route network and schedule through the addition of frequencies in its core markets and the addition of new markets and itineraries, while also pruning less profitable flights from its schedule. The Company's network and schedule optimization efforts have been particularly beneficial in addressing the impact of the MAX groundings. The Company continued its focus on California in 2019, and continues to invest significant resources to solidify its leadership position in California, including the planned addition of new destination options and flights for California Customers. For example, as Hawaii is an attractive leisure destination for the Company's California Customers, the Company began service to Hawaii in first quarter 2019 with inaugural service from Oakland to Honolulu on the Island of Oahu. In second quarter 2019, the Company began service from Oakland to Kahului on the Island of Maui, and service from San Jose to Honolulu and Kahului. Interisland service also began during second quarter 2019, with service between Honolulu and Kahului, and between Honolulu and Kona on the Island of Hawaii. During fourth quarter 2019, the Company began service at Lihue Airport on the Island of Kauai; and added Sacramento as an additional California gateway city. Additionally, in January 2020, the Company began service at Hilo International Airport on the Island of Hawaii. The Company is also scheduled to begin service from San Diego to Kahului on April 14, 2020, and from San Diego to Honolulu on April 20, 2020. By April 20, 2020, the Company is scheduled to offer 28 daily departures between California and Hawaii, and 38 daily departures among the Hawaiian Islands. The Company is currently scheduled to offer over 800 departures from California on peak flying days in the summer of 2020 and, based on the most recent data available from the DOT, for the year ended September 30, 2019, Southwest already carried more California travelers to, from, and within California than any other airline. In addition to California and Hawaii, the Company 4 remains focused on strengthening its schedule in core markets to provide additional regional and international connectivity, improving its recoverability during irregular operations, and growing its presence in strategic markets that serve as cornerstones for its network such as Baltimore, Denver, and Houston. The Company ended 2019 with international service to 13 destinations through 25 international gateway cities within the 48 contiguous United States. Cost Structure A key component of the Company's business strategy is its focus on cost discipline and profitably charging competitively low fares. Adjusted for stage length, the Company has lower unit costs, on average, than the majority of the largest domestic carriers; however, as discussed below under "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the Company experienced significant unit cost pressure in 2019 following the MAX groundings. The Company's low-cost strategy includes, among other elements, (i) the use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737, (ii) the Company's operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and (iii) its highly productive Employees. Southwest's use of a single aircraft type allows for simplified scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, and training activities. Southwest's point-to-point route structure includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines' hub airports, which has contributed to Southwest's ability to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This, in turn, has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (lower headcount per aircraft). The Company's focus on controlling costs also includes a continued commitment to pursuing, implementing, and enhancing initiatives to reduce fuel consumption and improve fuel efficiency. Although Fuel and oil expense for 2019 decreased compared with 2018, primarily due to lower market jet fuel prices, it nonetheless remained the Company's second largest operating cost for 2019. As evidenced by the table below, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. The table below shows the Company's average cost of jet fuel for each year beginning in 2009 and during each quarter of 2019. Year Cost (Millions) Average Cost Per Gallon Percentage of Operating Expenses 2009 $ 3,193 $ 2.22 31.2 % 2010 $ 3,755 $ 2.61 33.4 % 2011 $ 5,751 $ 3.25 38.2 % 2012 $ 6,156 $ 3.32 37.3 % 2013 $ 5,823 $ 3.19 35.3 % 2014 $ 5,355 $ 2.97 32.6 % 2015 $ 3,740 $ 1.96 23.6 % 2016 $ 3,801 $ 1.90 22.7 % 2017 $ 4,076 $ 1.99 23.0 % 2018 $ 4,616 $ 2.20 24.6 % 2019 $ 4,347 $ 2.09 22.3 % First Quarter 2019 $ 1,015 $ 2.05 21.9 % Second Quarter 2019 $ 1,136 $ 2.13 23.0 % Third Quarter 2019 $ 1,090 $ 2.07 22.6 % Fourth Quarter 2019 $ 1,105 $ 2.09 21.8 % The Company focuses on reducing fuel consumption and improving fuel efficiency through fleet modernization and other fuel initiatives. For example, the Company previously retired all Boeing 737-300 aircraft from its fleet and introduced service with the MAX 8 aircraft, which is more fuel-efficient and releases fewer CO 2 emissions than the 5 Company's other aircraft; however, the MAX groundings resulted in the removal of these more fuel-efficient aircraft from the Company's schedule, which, in turn, drove a decline in the Company's overall fuel efficiency in 2019. The Company continues to undertake a number of other fuel conservation initiatives, which are discussed in detail under "Regulation - Environmental Regulation." The table below sets forth the Company's available seat miles produced per fuel gallon consumed over the last five years: Year ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Available seat miles per fuel gallon consumed 75.7 76.3 75.2 74.4 73.9 The Company also enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant increases in fuel prices. The Company's fuel hedging activities, as well as the risks associated with high and/or volatile fuel prices, are discussed in more detail below under "Risk Factors," "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Salaries, wages, and benefits expense constituted approximately 42.6 percent of the Company's operating expenses during 2019 and was the Company's largest operating cost. The Company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the Company's low-cost competitive position. The Company's labor costs, and risks associated therewith, are discussed in more detail below under "Risk Factors" and "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Fare Structure General Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features competitive fares and product benefits, including unrestricted fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest fare products include three major categories: "Wanna Get Away ," "Anytime," and "Business Select ," with the goal of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer. All fare products include the privilege of two free checked bags (weight and size limits apply) and complimentary soft drinks and snacks, as well as free messaging, music, movies-on-demand, and live and on-demand television on WiFi-enabled aircraft. In addition, regardless of the fare product, Southwest does not charge fees for changes to flight reservations although fare differences may apply. "Wanna Get Away" fares are generally the lowest fares and are typically subject to advance purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable, but, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, funds may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. Wanna Get Away fares earn six Rapid Rewards points, under Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program, for each dollar spent on the base fare. The Company's loyalty program is discussed below under "Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program." "Anytime" fares are, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, refundable if canceled, or funds may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with nonrefundable funds, then the funds will be nonrefundable if travel is canceled. Anytime fares earn 10 Rapid Rewards points for each dollar spent on the base fare. "Business Select" fares are, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, refundable if canceled, or funds may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with nonrefundable funds, then the funds will be nonrefundable if travel is canceled. Business Select fares also include additional perks such as priority boarding with a boarding position in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group "A," 12 Rapid Rewards points per dollar spent on the base fare - the highest loyalty point multiplier of all Southwest fare products, "Fly By " priority security and/or ticket counter access in participating airports, and one complimentary premium beverage coupon for the day of travel (Customers must be of legal drinking age to drink alcoholic beverages). Southwest's No Show Policy applies if a Customer does not change or cancel a flight segment at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure and the Customer does not travel on the scheduled flight. In such event, subject to certain 6 exceptions, all segments associated with the reservation will be canceled, and (i) with respect to a "Wanna Get Away" fare, unused funds will be forfeited; and (ii) with respect to an "Anytime" or "Business Select" fare, unused funds will be held as travel credit for future travel by the Customer on Southwest. Ancillary Services The Company offers ancillary services such as Southwest's EarlyBird Check-In , Upgraded Boarding, and transportation of pets and unaccompanied minors, in accordance with Southwest's respective policies. EarlyBird Check-In provides Customers with automatic check-in and an assigned boarding position before general boarding positions become available, thereby improving Customers' seat selection options (priority boarding privileges are already a benefit of being an "A-List" tier member under the Company's Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program). The Company has implemented a variable pricing model for EarlyBird Check-In based on the length of the flight and the historical popularity of EarlyBird Check-In on the route. When available, Southwest sells Upgraded Boarding at the airport, which allows a Customer to pay for an open priority boarding position in the first 15 positions in its "A" boarding group. Southwest s Pet Policy provides Customers an opportunity to travel with a small cat or dog in the aircraft cabin on domestic flights. Southwest also has an unaccompanied minor travel policy to address the administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. Inflight Entertainment Portal and WiFi Service Southwest offers inflight entertainment and connectivity service on WiFi-enabled aircraft on the majority of its fleet. Southwest's suite of complimentary offerings onboard its inflight entertainment portal offers free movies, free messaging, free music, free games, and free live and on-demand television while onboard WiFi-enabled aircraft. The inflight entertainment service allows Customers to enjoy gate-to-gate entertainment directly on their personal wireless devices. The free inflight entertainment offerings include approximately 45 free movies-on-demand per month and free app messaging via iMessage or WhatsApp. The television product consists of over 15 live channels and up to 75 on-demand recorded episodes from popular television series. In addition, the onboard entertainment portal offers free digital music and live streaming radio service to Customers within the onboard entertainment portal. Customers can also purchase satellite internet service while on WiFi-enabled aircraft. Customers do not have to purchase WiFi to access the free inflight entertainment options including free movies, free messaging, free television, free music, free games, weather, destination guides, a flight tracker, and connecting flight information. Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program enables program members ("Members") to earn points for every dollar spent on Southwest base fares. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g., Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. Likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare purchased. Under the program, (i) Members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire. Under the program, Members continue to accumulate points until the time they decide to redeem them. As a result, the program provides Members significant flexibility and options for earning and redeeming rewards. For example, Members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as A-List and Companion Pass faster) by purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have significant flexibility in redeeming points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare ticket (including many fare sales) and redeem fewer points or by being able to redeem more points and book at the last minute if seats are still available for sale. In addition to redeeming points for Southwest flights, Members are also able to redeem their points for items such as international flights on other airlines, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. Members can also earn points through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners (which include, for example, car rental agencies, hotels, and restaurants), as well as by using Southwest's co-branded Chase Visa credit card. In addition to earning points for 7 revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Members also have the ability to purchase, gift, and transfer points, as well as the ability to donate points to selected charities. Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program features tier and Companion Pass programs for the most active Members, including "A-List" and "A-List Preferred" status. Both A-List and A-List Preferred Members enjoy benefits such as "Fly By " priority check-in and security lane access, where available, as well as dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings bonus on eligible revenue flights (25 percent for A-List and 100 percent for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred Members enjoy free inflight satellite internet service on WiFi-enabled aircraft. Members who attain A-List or A-List Preferred status receive priority boarding privileges for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding pass number available (generally, an "A" boarding pass). During the day of travel, if an A-List or A-List Preferred Member's plans change, they have free same-day standby privileges, which allow them to fly on earlier flights between the same city pairs if space is available. Beginning January 1, 2021, A-List and A-List Preferred Members will have the same standby privileges free of airline charges, but will be required to pay any additional government taxes and fees associated with changes in their itinerary. Members who fly 100 qualifying one-way flights or earn 125,000 qualifying points in a calendar year automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited travel for the designated Companion free of airline charges (does not include taxes and fees from $5.60 one-way). The Companion Pass is valid for the remainder of the calendar year in which status was earned and for the following full calendar year to any destination available on Southwest for a designated Companion of the qualifying Member. The Member and designated Companion must travel together on the same flight. Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program has been designed to drive more revenue by (i) bringing in new Customers, including new Members, as well as new holders of Southwest's co-branded Chase Visa credit card; (ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and (iii) strengthening the Company's Rapid Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and other partnerships. For 2019, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately 10.7 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 14.1 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For 2018, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately 10.4 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 13.8 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For 2017, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately 9.6 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 13.8 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. The Company's accounting policies with respect to its loyalty programs are discussed in more detail in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Southwest Business Initiatives During 2019, the Company increased its focus on growing the Company's corporate travel business with the goal of making it easier for corporate travel Customers and travel management companies to do business with Southwest. In third quarter 2019, the Company entered into an agreement with Amadeus IT Group, S.A. ("Amadeus"), and expanded its agreement with Travelport, LP and Travelport International Operations Limited (collectively, "Travelport"), to enable corporate travel Customers and travel management companies to book Southwest products on the Amadeus and Travelport global distribution system ("GDS") platforms. The Company's expansion into the Travelport and Amadeus GDS channels is intended to facilitate corporate travel managers' ability to book, change, cancel, and modify Southwest reservations. The Company expects the new capabilities to be ready for bookings in 2020. The Company also has an agreement with Airlines Reporting Corporation to implement industry-standard processes to handle the settlement of tickets booked through Travelport and Amadeus channels. In 2019, Southwest Business also continued to invest in and enhance its online booking tool SWABIZ . SWABIZ is designed for business Customers who prefer a self-service and low-cost solution for booking their air travel on Southwest. The site also offers car and hotel booking functions. Digital Customer Platforms including Southwest.com The Company offers a broad suite of digital platforms to support Customers' needs prior to and during the course of their travel, including Southwest.com , mobile.southwest.com, an iOS TM app, an iPadOS TM app, and an Android app. These digital platforms help Customers to learn, shop, book, and manage their Southwest air travel and also facilitate the purchase of the Company s ancillary products, including EarlyBird, Business Select, vacation packages, rental car 8 reservations, hotel reservations, and travel activities. In addition, the digital platforms provide self-service tools for reservation management and Customer support. During 2019, to improve customer support, Southwest also added live chat functionality to the Southwest apps to enable Customers to connect directly with Customer Support and Services representatives. Southwest.com was also updated with a digital feedback tool to enhance Customer self-service options, including the ability to provide feedback on their experience. During 2019, to improve the booking process, Southwest added PayPal to its mobile website and apps. Payment choices were also improved by adding Apple Pay to the Southwest iOS and iPadOS apps as well as to the Inflight WiFi purchase page. Southwest also enhanced Southw