ITEM 1 BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS 23 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 41 ITEM 1C CYBERSECURITY 41 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 42 ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 42 ITEM 4 MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 43 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 44 ITEM 6 [ RESERVED ] 46 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 47 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 68 ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 70 ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 133 ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 133 ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION 134 ITEM 9C DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 134 PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 134 ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 134 ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 134 ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 134 ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 135 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 136 ITEM 16 FORM 10-K SUMMARY 143 SIGNATURES 144 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Las Vegas Sands Corp. ( LVSC, or together with its subsidiaries we or the Company ) is the leading global developer and operator of destination properties ( Integrated Resorts ) that feature premium accommodations, world-class gaming, entertainment and retail malls, convention and exhibition facilities, celebrity chef restaurants and other amenities. We currently own and operate Integrated Resorts in Macao and Singapore. We believe our geographic diversity, best-in-class properties and convention-based business model provide us with the best platform in the hospitality and gaming industry to continue generating growth and cash flow while simultaneously pursuing new development opportunities. We focus on the mass market, which comprises our most profitable gaming segment. We believe the mass market segment will continue to deliver long-term growth as a result of continuing economic growth, expansion of the middle class and increasing number of high net worth individuals across our markets in Asia. We also offer loyalty programs at our properties, which provide access to rewards, privileges and members-only events. Additionally, we believe being in the retail mall business and, specifically, owning some of the largest retail properties in Asia will provide meaningful value for us, particularly as the retail market in Asia continues to grow. Our properties also cater to high-end players by providing them with luxury amenities and premium service levels. These amenities include luxury accommodations, restaurants, lounges, invitation-only clubs and private gaming salons. In each of the regions where we operate, the Paiza brand is associated with certain of these exclusive facilities and represents an important part of our VIP gaming marketing strategy. Our unique convention-based marketing strategy allows us to attract business travelers during the slower mid-week periods while leisure travelers occupy our properties during the weekends. Our convention, trade show and meeting facilities, combined with the on-site amenities offered at our Macao and Singapore Integrated Resorts, provide flexible and expansive space for meetings, incentives, conventions and exhibitions ( MICE ). Through our 69.9% ownership of Sands China Ltd. ( SCL ), we own and operate a collection of Integrated Resorts in the Macao Special Administrative Region ( Macao ) of the People's Republic of China ( PRC or China ). These properties include The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel ( The Venetian Macao ); The Londoner Macao; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, Cotai Strip (the Four Seasons Macao ); and the Sands Macao. In Singapore, we own and operate the iconic Marina Bay Sands, which opened in 2010 and is one of Singapore's major tourist, business and retail destinations. We are dedicated to sustainability across environment, social and governance ( ESG ) priorities, anchored by our People, Communities and Planet corporate responsibility platform. In 2023, we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the sixth consecutive year and to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fourth consecutive year, recognizing our ESG leadership and performance. We strive to deliver a positive working environment for our team members worldwide and pledge to promote the advancement of aspiring team members through a range of educational partnerships, grants and leadership training. We are committed to creating and investing in industry-leading policies and procedures to safeguard our patrons, partners, employees and neighbors. We drive social impact through, among other things, our Sands Cares charitable giving and community engagement program. Our industry-leading Integrated Resorts provide substantial contributions to our host communities including growth in leisure and business tourism, sustained job creation and ongoing financial opportunities for local small and medium-sized businesses. We continuously make efforts to improve our environmental performance through our Sands ECO360 global sustainability program ( Sands ECO360 ). Through Sands ECO360, we develop and implement environmental practices to advance energy efficiency and transition to renewables, reduce waste, conserve water and source products and materials responsibly. LVSC was incorporated in Nevada in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE ) under the symbol LVS. Our principal executive office is located at 5420 S. Durango Dr., 3 Table of Contents Las Vegas, Nevada 89113 and our telephone number at that address is (702) 923-9000. Our website address is www.sands.com . The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) filings, and any amendments to those reports and any other filings we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC and are also available at the SEC's web site address at www.sec.gov . Investors and others should note we announce material financial information using our investor relations website ( https://investor.sands.com ), our company website, SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. In addition, we post certain information regarding SCL, a subsidiary of LVSC with ordinary shares listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from time to time on our company website and our investor relations website. It is possible the information we post regarding SCL could be deemed to be material information. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file or furnish with the SEC, and any reference to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements. See Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our principal operating and developmental activities occur in two geographic areas: Macao and Singapore. Management reviews the results of operations for each of its operating segments, which generally are our Integrated Resorts. In Macao, our operating segments are: The Venetian Macao; The Londoner Macao; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao; and Sands Macao. In Singapore, our operating segment is Marina Bay Sands. Additionally, prior to its sale, our operating segment in the United States was The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and the Sands Expo and Convention Center (together, the Las Vegas Operating Properties ) through February 22, 2022, which has been disclosed as a discontinued operation. We also review construction and development activities for our primary projects under development, in addition to our reportable segments noted above. We also have ferry operations and various other operations that are ancillary to our Macao properties (collectively, Ferry Operations and Other ). Strengths and Strategies We believe we have a number of strengths that differentiate our business from our competitors, including: Diversified, high quality Integrated Resort offerings with substantial non-gaming amenities. Our Integrated Resorts feature non-gaming attractions and amenities including world-class entertainment, expansive retail offerings and market-leading MICE facilities. These attractions and amenities enhance the appeal of our Integrated Resorts, contributing to visitation, length of stay and customer spending at our resorts. The broad appeal of our market-leading Integrated Resort offerings in our various markets enables us to serve the widest array of customer segments in each market. Substantial and diversified cash flow from existing operations. Our Integrated Resorts in Macao and Singapore have contributed 54% and 46% of our total adjusted property EBITDA, respectively, during 2023. In each of these jurisdictions, our cash flow from operations was derived from a combination of gaming and non-gaming sources, including retail malls, hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and MICE. Market leadership in the growing high-margin mass market gaming segment. In our gaming business, we focus on the high-margin mass gaming segment. Our combined SCL properties continue to have the highest percentage of gaming win from mass tables and slots of the Macao operators. Management estimates our mass market table revenues typically generate a gross margin substantially higher than the gross margin on our VIP table 4 Table of Contents revenues. Additionally, gross gaming revenue from mass tables and slots has contributed to approximately two-thirds of total gross gaming revenue at Marina Bay Sands during the previous five years. Established brands with broad regional and international market awareness and appeal. Through a combination of its diversity of amenities, scale of facilities and its distinctive design, The Venetian Macao has remained the foremost example of a themed Integrated Resort in Macao. The Londoner Macao, our largest themed property on the Cotai Strip, with replicas of the Houses of Parliament and the Elizabeth Tower, along with the Parisian Macao, our themed property with an iconic replica of the Eiffel Tower and other attractions, has established an interconnected critical mass of Europe an-themed Integrated Resorts that attract multiple segments of leisure and business tourism and drive broad brand awareness both regionally and globally. As awareness of The Londoner Macao increases, we believe this Integrated Resort has both the quality and scale to enhance the overall reputation and recognition of our Macao portfolio. Marina Bay Sands is an iconic, architecturally significant Integrated Resort with meaningful scale and visitation. Due to its distinctive design, multitude of amenities and customer experiences shared on social media, and a prominent position as part of the Singapore skyline, Marina Bay Sands is recognized throughout Asia and globally. We believe the brand of Marina Bay Sands is unique and as a result, the property is often featured prominently on social media, in filmed entertainment and in other media. Experienced management team with a proven track record. Mr. Robert G. Goldstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has been an integral part of our executive team from the beginning, joining our founder and previous Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sheldon G. Adelson, before The Venetian Resort Las Vegas was constructed. Mr. Goldstein is one of the most respected and experienced executives in our industry today. Mr. Patrick Dumont, our President and Chief Operating Officer, has been with the Company for more than 13 years, including previously serving as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and has prior experience in corporate finance and management. Our management team is focused on delivering growth, increasing our return on invested capital, balance sheet strength, preserving the Company s financial flexibility to pursue development opportunities and continuing to execute return of capital to stockholders. Unique MICE and entertainment facilities. Our market-leading MICE and entertainment facilities contribute to our markets diversification and appeal to business and leisure travelers while diversifying our cash flows and increasing revenues and profit. Our approximately 2.9 million square feet of global MICE space is designed to meet the needs of meeting planners and corporate events and trade show organizers from around the world. Our experience and expertise in this industry supports our ability to drive leisure and business tourism to our markets. The live entertainment program at our properties has been a key traffic driver and has established us as a leader in the field of tourism and leisure activities. Building on our key strengths, we seek to enhance our position as the leading developer and operator of Integrated Resorts and casinos by continuing to implement the following business strategies: Developing and diversifying our Integrated Resort offerings to include a full complement of products and services to cater to different market segments. Our Integrated Resorts include MICE space, retail, dining and entertainment facilities and a range of hotel offerings, including branded suites and hotel rooms, to cater to different segments of our markets. We are able to leverage the recognition and the sales, marketing and reservation capabilities of premier hotel brands to attract a wide range of customers in different market segments to our properties. We believe our partnerships with renowned hotel management partners, our diverse Integrated Resort offerings and the convenience and accessibility of our properties will continue to increase the appeal of our properties to both the business and leisure customer segments. Leveraging our scale of operations to create and maintain an absolute cost advantage. Management expects to benefit from lower unit costs due to the economies of scale inherent in our operations. Opportunities for lower unit costs include, but are not limited to: lower utility costs; more efficient staffing of hotel and gaming operations; and centralized transportation, marketing and sales, and procurement. In addition, our scale allows us to consolidate certain administrative functions. 5 Table of Contents Focusing on the high-margin mass market gaming segment, while continuing to provide luxury amenities and high service levels to our VIP and premium players. The scale and product mix of our Integrated Resort properties allow us to participate very effectively in all segments of the market. We believe the mass market segment will continue to exhibit long-term growth as a result of continuing economic growth, expansion of the middle class and increasing number of high net worth individuals across our markets in Asia, accompanied by supportive long-term trends in business and leisure tourism. Our properties are positioned to harness future growth in the mass market that comprise our most profitable gaming segment, while delivering the immersive destination resort experiences that create loyalty with VIP and premium players. Identifying targeted investment opportunities to drive growth across our portfolio. We will continue to invest in the expansion of our facilities and the enhancement of the leisure and business tourism appeal of our property portfolio. Our planned development projects include fulfilling capital and operating investment requirements as part of our Macao gaming concession, the next phase of renovation and redevelopment of The Londoner Macao and the extensive renovation and expansion of Marina Bay Sands. Our Operations Macao The Venetian Macao is the anchor property of our Cotai Strip development and is located approximately two miles from the Taipa Ferry Terminal on Macao's Taipa Island and six miles from the bridge linking Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai. The Venetian Macao includes approximately 503,000 square feet of gaming space and gaming support area with approximately 690 table games and 1,260 slot machines and electronic table games ( ETGs ). The Venetian Macao features a 39-floor luxury hotel tower with 2,905 elegantly appointed luxury suites and the Shoppes at Venetian, approximately 948,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with 327 stores featuring many international brands and home to 59 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. In addition, The Venetian Macao has approximately 1.2 million square feet of convention facilities and meeting room space, an 1,800-seat theater and the 15,000-seat Cotai Arena that hosts world-class entertainment and sporting events. The Londoner Macao, our largest Integrated Resort on the Cotai Strip, is located across the street from The Venetian Macao, The Parisian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao. The Londoner Macao is the result of our renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central, which included the addition of extensive thematic elements both externally and internally and was completed during 2022. The Londoner Macao presents a range of new attractions and features, including some of London s most recognizable landmarks, such as the Houses of Parliament and the Elizabeth Tower (commonly known as Big Ben ), and interactive guest experiences. The Integrated Resort features four hotel towers. The first hotel tower consists of Londoner Court with 368 luxury suites and 400 rooms and suites under the St. Regis brand. The second hotel tower consists of 659 five-star rooms and suites under the Conrad brand and The Londoner Macao Hotel with 594 London-themed suites, including 14 exclusive Suites by David Beckham. The third hotel tower consists of 1,842 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand. The fourth hotel tower consists of 2,126 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand. Work on Phase II of the Londoner Macao has commenced, which includes the renovation of the rooms in the Sheraton and Conrad hotel towers, an upgrade of the gaming areas and the addition of new attractions, dining, retail and entertainment offerings. The Integrated Resort includes approximately 400,000 square feet of gaming space and gaming support area with approximately 510 table games and 1,210 slot machines and ETGs, approximately 369,000 square feet of meeting space, a 1,701-seat theater, the 6,000-seat Londoner Arena, approximately 612,000 square feet of retail space with 143 stores and home to 50 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. The Parisian Macao, which is connected to The Venetian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, includes approximately 272,000 square feet of gaming space and gaming support area with approximately 280 table games and 780 slot machines and ETGs. The Parisian Macao also features 2,541 rooms and suites and the Shoppes at Parisian, approximately 296,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with 112 stores featuring many international brands and home to 26 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. Other non-gaming amenities at The Parisian Macao include a meeting room complex of approximately 63,000 square feet and a 1,200-seat theater. Directly in front of The Parisian Macao, and connected via a covered walkway to the main building, is a half-scale authentic re-creation of the Eiffel Tower containing a viewing platform and restaurant. 6 Table of Contents The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, which is located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, has approximately 108,000 square feet of gaming space and gaming support area with approximately 90 table games and 20 slot machines and ETGs at its Plaza Casino. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao also has 360 elegantly appointed rooms and suites managed by FS Macau Lda., several food and beverage offerings, and conference and banquet facilities. The Grand Suites at Four Seasons features 289 luxury suites. The Shoppes at Four Seasons includes approximately 249,000 square feet of retail space with 134 stores and home to 10 restaurant and food outlets, and is connected to the Shoppes at Venetian. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao also features 19 ultra-exclusive Paiza Mansions, which are individually designed and made available by invitation only. The Sands Macao, the first U.S. operated Las Vegas-style casino in Macao, is situated near the Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally located between Macao's Gongbei border gate with China and Macao's central business district. The Sands Macao includes approximately 176,000 square feet of gaming space and gaming support area with approximately 110 table games and 430 slot machines and ETGs. The Sands Macao also includes a 289-suite hotel tower, spa facilities and several restaurants and entertainment areas. We operate the gaming areas within our Macao properties pursuant to a 10-year gaming concession that expires in December 2032. See Regulation and Licensing Macao Concession . Singapore Marina Bay Sands opened with approximately 2,600 rooms and suites located in three 55-story hotel towers. We are currently undertaking extensive renovation work with approximately 1,850 rooms and suites resulting upon completion, which is expected to greatly enhance the positioning of our suite product. Atop the three towers is the Sands SkyPark, an extensive outdoor recreation area with a 150-meter infinity swimming pool and leading restaurant and nightlife brands. The Integrated Resort offers approximately 162,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 500 table games and 3,000 slot machines and ETGs; The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex with signature restaurants from world-renowned chefs; an event plaza and promenade; and an art/science museum. Marina Bay Sands also includes approximately 1.2 million square feet of meeting and convention space and a state-of-the-art theater for top Broadway shows, concerts and gala events. We operate the gaming area within our Singapore property pursuant to a 30-year casino concession provided under a development agreement entered into in August 2006. See Regulation and Licensing Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board. Additionally, see Development Projects Singapore. Our Markets Macao Macao is the largest gaming market in the world and the only market in China to offer legalized casino gaming. According to Macao government statistics issued publicly on a monthly basis by the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau (commonly referred to as the DICJ ), annual gross gaming revenues were 183.06 billion patacas in 2023 (approximately $22.74 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2023), an increase of 333.8% and a decrease of 37.4% compared to 2022 and 2019, respectively. We welcomed approximately 27 million visitors to Macao in 2023, compared to the approximately 6 million visitors in 2022. We believe visitation will return to pre-pandemic levels and will continue to experience meaningful long-term growth. We believe this growth will be driven by a variety of factors, including the movement of Chinese citizens to urban centers in China, continued growth of the Chinese outbound tourism market, the increased utilization of existing transportation infrastructure, the introduction of new transportation infrastructure and the continued increase in hotel room inventory in Macao and neighboring Hengqin Island. There has been significant investment announced and recently completed by concessionaires in new resort development projects on Cotai. These factors should help increase the critical mass on Cotai and further drive Macao's transformation into a leading business and leisure tourism hub in Asia. We believe the development of additional integrated resort products in Macao will also drive a higher demand for gaming products. Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia, with Baccarat being the most popular game. We believe we will continue to experience Macao market-leading visitation and are focused on driving high-margin mass market gaming, while providing luxury amenities and high service levels to our VIP and premium players. We 7 Table of Contents intend to continue to introduce more modern and popular products that appeal to the Asian marketplace and believe our continued improvement in our high-quality gaming product offerings has enabled us to capture a meaningful share of the overall Macao gaming market across all player segments. Proximity to Major Asian Cities Visitors from Hong Kong, South China, Taiwan and other locations in Asia can reach Macao in a relatively short time, using a variety of transportation methods, and visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take advantage of short travel times by air to Zhuhai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou or Hong Kong, followed by a road, ferry or helicopter trip to Macao. In addition, numerous air carriers fly directly into Macau International Airport from many major cities in Asia. Macao draws in a significant number of customers who are visitors or residents of Hong Kong. One of the major methods of transportation to Macao from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry service, including our ferry services, Cotai Water Jet. The Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge (the HZMB ), which connects Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai, has reduced the travel time between Hong Kong and Macao from one hour by ferry to approximately 45 minutes on the road. The HZMB is part of the Greater Bay Area Initiative and plays a key role in connecting the cities in the Greater Bay Area, facilitating the visitation to Macao. Macao is also accessible from Hong Kong by helicopter. Competition in Macao Gaming in Macao is administered by the government through concessions awarded to six different concessionaires, of which we are one. The other concessionaires are SJM Resorts, S.A., Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A., Galaxy Casino, S.A., MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. and Melco Resorts (Macau), S.A. Our Macao operations also face competition from other gaming and resort destinations, both in Asia and globally. Singapore Singapore is regarded as having the most developed financial and transportation infrastructure in the Southeast Asia region. Singapore has established itself as a destination for both business and leisure visitors, offering convention and exhibition facilities as well as world-class shopping malls and hotel accommodations. In 2006, after a competitive bid process, the Singapore government awarded two concessions to develop and operate two integrated resorts. We were awarded the concession for the Marina Bay site, which is adjacent to Singapore's central business district, and Genting International was awarded the second site, located on Singapore's Sentosa Island. Based on figures released by the STB, Singapore welcomed approximately 13.6 million international visitors in the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, a 115.8% increase and a 28.8% decrease compared to the same period in 2022 and 2019, respectively. Tourism receipts were estimated to be SGD 14.18 billion (approximately $10.74 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2023) in 2022 (the latest information publicly available at the time of filing). The Gambling Regulatory Authority (the GRA ), the gaming regulator in Singapore, does not disclose gaming revenue for the market and thus no official figure exists. We believe Marina Bay Sands is ideally positioned within Singapore to cater to both business and leisure visitors. The Integrated Resort is centrally located within a 20-minute drive from Singapore's Changi International Airport and near the Marina Bay Cruise Center, a deep-water cruise ship terminal, and Bayfront station, a mass rapid transit station. Marina Bay Sands is also located near several entertainment attractions, including the Gardens by the Bay botanical gardens and the Singapore Sports Hub, a sports complex featuring the 55,000-seat National Stadium. Baccarat is the preferred table game in both VIP and mass gaming. Additionally, contributions from slot machines and from mass gaming, including ETG offerings, have enhanced the growth of the market. As Marina Bay Sands and the Singapore market as a whole continue to mature, we expect to broaden our visitor base to continue to capture visitors from around the world. 8 Table of Contents Proximity to Major Asian Cities More than 100 airlines operate in Singapore, connecting it to some 300 cities in approximately 80 countries. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, 59 million passengers passed through Singapore's Changi Airport, an increase of 83% and a decrease of 14% compared to the same period in 2022 and 2019, respectively. In 2019, Changi Jewel, a multi-use retail, hotel and food and beverage destination, opened at Changi Airport, and work is currently underway to expand the number of runways and open a fifth terminal, which would increase passenger capacity. Based on figures released b