ITEM 1 BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS 24 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 38 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 38 ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 38 ITEM 4 MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 38 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 39 ITEM 6 [ RESERVED ] 40 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 41 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 65 ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 66 ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 128 ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 128 ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION 129 ITEM 9C DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 129 PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 129 ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 129 ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 129 ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 129 ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 129 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 130 ITEM 16 FORM 10-K SUMMARY 137 SIGNATURES 138 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Las Vegas Sands Corp. ("LVSC," or together with its subsidiaries "we" or the "Company") is a Fortune 500 company and the leading global developer of destination properties ("Integrated Resorts") that feature premium accommodations, world-class gaming, entertainment and retail malls, convention and exhibition facilities, celebrity chef restaurants and other amenities. We currently own and operate Integrated Resorts in Asia and the United States. We believe our geographic diversity, best-in-class properties and convention-based business model provide us with the best platform in the hospitality and gaming industry to continue generating growth and cash flow while simultaneously pursuing new development opportunities. Our unique convention-based marketing strategy allows us to attract business travelers during the slower mid-week periods while leisure travelers occupy our properties during the weekends. Our convention, trade show and meeting facilities, combined with the on-site amenities offered at our Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas Integrated Resorts, provide flexible and expansive space for meetings, incentives, conventions and exhibitions ("MICE"). We focus on the mass market, which comprises our most profitable gaming segment. We believe the mass market segment will continue to deliver long-term growth as a result of the introduction of more high-quality gaming facilities and non-gaming amenities into our markets, particularly in Asia. Our properties also cater to high-end players by providing them with luxury amenities and premium service levels. These amenities include luxury accommodations, restaurants, lounges, invitation-only clubs and private gaming salons. In each of the regions where we operate, the Paiza brand is associated with certain of these exclusive facilities and represents an important part of our VIP gaming marketing strategy. We also offer players club loyalty programs at our properties, which provide access to rewards, privileges and members-only events. Additionally, we believe being in the retail mall business and, specifically, owning some of the largest retail properties in Asia will provide meaningful value for us, particularly as the retail market in Asia continues to grow. Through our 69.9% ownership of Sands China Ltd. ("SCL"), we own and operate a collection of Integrated Resorts in the Macao Special Administrative Region ("Macao") of the People's Republic of China ("China"). These properties include The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel ("The Venetian Macao"); The Londoner Macao; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, Cotai Strip (the "Four Seasons Macao"); and the Sands Macao. In Singapore, we own and operate the iconic Marina Bay Sands, which opened in 2010 and is one of Singapore's major tourist, business and retail destinations. Our properties in the United States include The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, a luxury resort on the Las Vegas Strip, and the Sands Expo and Convention Center (the "Sands Expo Center," and together with The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, the "Las Vegas Operating Properties") in Las Vegas, Nevada. We are dedicated to being a good corporate citizen, anchored by the core values of serving people, planet and communities. We strive to deliver a positive working environment for our team members worldwide and pledge to promote the advancement of aspiring team members through a range of educational partnerships, grants and leadership training. We also drive social impact through the Sands Cares charitable giving and community engagement program, and environmental performance through the award-winning Sands ECO360 global sustainability program ("Sands ECO360"). Through Sands ECO360, we develop and implement environmental practices to protect natural resources, offer our team members a safe and healthy work environment, and enhance the resort experiences of our guests. In 2021, for the second consecutive year, we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, recognizing our leadership and performance across economic, environmental and social areas. In addition, CDP's annual A List names the world's leading companies in the area of environmental transparency and performance. For the fourth consecutive year, we have been named to the A List for both CDP Water Security and CDP Climate Change. We are committed to creating and investing in industry-leading policies and procedures to safeguard our patrons, partners, employees 3 Table of Contents and neighbors. Project Protect is our responsible gaming, anti-human trafficking and financial crime prevention program. Our industry-leading Integrated Resorts provide substantial contributions to our host communities including growth in leisure and business tourism, sustained job creation and ongoing financial opportunities for local small and medium-sized businesses. LVSC was incorporated in Nevada in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "LVS." Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109 and our telephone number at that address is (702) 923-9000. Our website address is www.sands.com . The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings, and any amendments to those reports and any other filings we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC and are also available at the SEC's web site address at www.sec.gov . Investors and others should note we announce material financial information using our investor relations website ( https://investor.sands.com ), our company website, SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. In addition, we post certain information regarding SCL, a subsidiary of LVSC with ordinary shares listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from time to time on our company website and our investor relations website. It is possible the information we post regarding SCL could be deemed to be material information. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file or furnish with the SEC, and any reference to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements. See "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Our principal operating and developmental activities occur in three geographic areas: Macao, Singapore and the United States. Management reviews the results of operations for each of its operating segments, which generally are our Integrated Resorts. In Macao, our operating segments are: The Venetian Macao; The Londoner Macao; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao; and Sands Macao. In Singapore, our operating segment is Marina Bay Sands. In the United States, our operating segment is the Las Vegas Operating Properties. Through May 30, 2019, the Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem (the "Sands Bethlehem") was included as an operating segment. We also have ferry operations and various other operations that are ancillary to our Macao properties (collectively, "Ferry Operations and Other") that we present to reconcile to our consolidated statements of operations and financial condition. In addition to our reportable segments noted above, management also reviews construction and development activities for each of our primary projects currently under development, which include the expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central to The Londoner Macao and the MBS Expansion Project (as later defined). From February 2020 through the date of this report, our operations have been significantly impacted by a global pandemic (the COVID-19 Pandemic ). While the details of this impact have been disclosed throughout this document, the following discussion of our business focuses on execution of our business strategies in a non-pandemic environment based on the assumption the global impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic will eventually diminish and our operations will recover as travel and tourism improves in our markets. Strengths and Strategies We believe we have a number of strengths that differentiate our business from our competitors, including: Diversified, high quality Integrated Resort offerings with substantial non-gaming amenities. Our Integrated Resorts feature non-gaming attractions and amenities including world-class entertainment, expansive retail offerings and market-leading MICE facilities. These attractions and amenities enhance the appeal of our Integrated Resorts, contributing to visitation, length of stay and customer spending at our resorts. The broad appeal 4 Table of Contents of our market-leading Integrated Resort offerings in our various markets enables us to serve the widest array of customer segments in each market. Substantial and diversified cash flow from existing operations. Our Integrated Resorts in Macao, Singapore and the U.S. have contributed 53%, 36% and 11% of our total adjusted property EBITDA, respectively, during the previous five years. In each of these jurisdictions, our cash flow from operations was derived from a combination of gaming and non-gaming sources, including retail malls, hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and MICE. Market leadership in the growing high-margin mass market gaming segment. In our gaming business, we focus on the high-margin mass gaming segment. Our combined SCL properties had the highest percentage of gaming win from mass tables and slots of the Macao operators, with an average market share of approximately 30% during the previous five years. Management estimates our mass market table revenues typically generated a gross margin approximately four times higher than the gross margin on our VIP table revenues. Additionally, gross gaming revenue from mass tables and slots has contributed to approximately two-thirds of total gross gaming revenue at Marina Bay Sands during the previous five years. Established brands with broad regional and international market awareness and appeal. The opening of The Venetian Macao provided the foundation and cornerstone for the Cotai Strip and marked a step-change for the Macao gaming market more broadly. Through a combination of its range and scale of facilities and its distinctive theming, The Venetian Macao has remained the foremost example of a themed Integrated Resort in Macao. Recognition has also been garnered by The Parisian Macao, our property with its iconic replica of the Eiffel Tower and other themed attractions. Both of these European-themed Integrated Resorts attract broad brand awareness both regionally and globally, which we expect will continue with the opening of The Londoner Macao over the course of 2022. Marina Bay Sands is an iconic part of the Singapore skyline and is often featured prominently in filmed entertainment and other media. Experienced management team with a proven track record. Mr. Sheldon G. Adelson was our founder, and until his death in January 2021, served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Adelson created the MICE-based Integrated Resort and pioneered its development in the Las Vegas and Singapore markets, as well as in Macao, where he planned and developed the Cotai Strip. Mr. Robert G. Goldstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has been an integral part of the Company's executive team from the beginning, joining Mr. Adelson before The Venetian Resort Las Vegas was constructed. Mr. Goldstein is one of the most respected and experienced executives in our industry today. Mr. Patrick Dumont, our President and Chief Operating Officer, has been with the Company for more than eleven years, including the last five as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and has prior experience in corporate finance and management. Our management team is focused on delivering growth, increasing our return on invested capital, balance sheet strength, preserving the Company s financial flexibility to pursue development opportunities and continuing to execute return of capital to stockholders. Unique MICE and entertainment facilities. Our market-leading MICE and entertainment facilities contribute to our markets diversification and appeal to business and leisure travelers while diversifying our cash flows and increasing revenues and profit. Our approximately 5.2 million square feet of global MICE space is designed to meet the needs of meeting planners and corporate events and trade show organizers from around the world. Our experience and expertise in this industry supports our ability to drive leisure and business tourism to our markets. The live entertainment program at our properties, specifically in Asia, has been a key traffic driver and has established us as a leader in the field of tourism and leisure activities. Building on our key strengths, we seek to enhance our position as the leading developer and operator of Integrated Resorts and casinos by continuing to implement the following business strategies: Developing and diversifying our Integrated Resort offerings to include a full complement of products and services to cater to different market segments. Our Integrated Resorts include MICE space, retail, dining and entertainment facilities and a range of hotel offerings, including branded suites and hotel rooms, to cater to different segments of our markets. We are able to leverage the recognition and the sales, marketing and reservation capabilities of premier hotel brands to attract a wide range of customers in different market segments to our properties. We believe our partnerships with renowned hotel management partners, our diverse Integrated Resort offerings and the convenience and accessibility of our properties will continue to increase the appeal of our properties to both the business and leisure customer segments. 5 Table of Contents Leveraging our scale of operations to create and maintain an absolute cost advantage. Management expects to benefit from lower unit costs due to the economies of scale inherent in our operations. Opportunities for lower unit costs include, but are not limited to: lower utility costs; more efficient staffing of hotel and gaming operations; and centralized transportation, marketing and sales, and procurement. In addition, our scale allows us to consolidate certain administrative functions. Focusing on the high-margin mass market gaming segment, while continuing to provide luxury amenities and high service levels to our VIP and premium players. The scale and product mix of our Integrated Resort properties allow us to participate very effectively in all segments of the market. We believe the mass market segment will continue to exhibit long-term growth as a result of the introduction of more high-quality gaming facilities and non-gaming amenities into our various markets, accompanied by supportive long-term trends in business and leisure tourism. Our properties are positioned to harness future growth in the mass market that comprise our most profitable gaming segment, while delivering the immersive destination resort experiences that create loyalty with VIP and premium players. Identifying targeted investment opportunities to drive growth across our portfolio. We will continue to invest in the expansion of our facilities and the enhancement of the leisure and business tourism appeal of our property portfolio. Our planned development projects include the renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central into The Londoner Macao and the expansion of Marina Bay Sands. Our Operations Macao The Venetian Macao is the anchor property of our Cotai Strip development and is located approximately two miles from the Taipa Ferry Terminal on Macao's Taipa Island and six miles from the bridge linking Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai. The Venetian Macao includes approximately 374,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 630 table games and 1,120 slot machines and electronic table games ("ETGs"). The Venetian Macao features a 39-floor luxury hotel tower with over 2,900 elegantly appointed luxury suites and the Shoppes at Venetian, approximately 945,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with more than 320 stores featuring many international brands and home to 56 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. In addition, The Venetian Macao has approximately 1.2 million square feet of convention facilities and meeting room space, an 1,800-seat theater, the 15,000-seat Cotai Arena that hosts world-class entertainment and sporting events. The Londoner Macao (previously Sands Cotai Central), our largest Integrated Resort on the Cotai Strip, is located across the street from The Venetian Macao, The Parisian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao. The Londoner Macao is the result of our renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central, which included the addition of extensive thematic elements both externally and internally. Our construction work on The Londoner Macao Hotel and Londoner Court was completed in 2021. We anticipate the Londoner Arena, expansion of the Shoppes at Londoner and other amenities to be completed before the end of 2022. The Londoner Macao presents a range of new attractions and features, including some of London s most recognizable landmarks, such as the Houses of Parliament and the Elizabeth Tower (commonly known as "Big Ben"), and interactive guest experiences. The Londoner Macao Hotel opened in January 2021 with 594 London-themed suites, including 14 exclusive Suites by David Beckham. The Integrated Resort also features Londoner Court, which opened on September 16, 2021, and includes approximately 370 luxury suites. The expansion of our retail offerings has been rebranded as Shoppes at Londoner in 2021. The Integrated Resort features four hotel towers. The first hotel tower includes approximately 650 five-star rooms and suites under the Conrad brand and The Londoner Macao Hotel. The second hotel tower consists of approximately 1,800 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand. The third hotel tower consists of approximately 2,100 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand. The fourth hotel tower consists of Londoner Court and approximately 400 rooms and suites under the St. Regis brand. The Integrated Resort includes approximately 351,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 480 table games and 990 slot machines and ETGs, approximately 369,000 square feet of meeting space, a 1,701-seat theater, approximately 532,000 square feet of retail space with more than 110 stores and home to more than 50 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. The Parisian Macao, which is connected to The Venetian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, includes approximately 248,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 270 table games and 980 6 Table of Contents slot machines and ETGs. The Parisian Macao also features approximately 2,500 rooms and suites and the Shoppes at Parisian, approximately 296,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with 130 stores featuring many international brands and home to 26 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. Other non-gaming amenities at The Parisian Macao include a meeting room complex of approximately 63,000 square feet and a 1,200-seat theater. Directly in front of The Parisian Macao, and connected via a covered walkway to the main building, is a half-scale authentic re-creation of the Eiffel Tower containing a viewing platform and restaurant. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, which is located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, has approximately 127,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 140 table games and 170 slot machines and ETGs at its Plaza Casino. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao also has 360 elegantly appointed rooms and suites managed by FS Macau Lda., several food and beverage offerings, and conference and banquet facilities. The Shoppes at Four Seasons includes approximately 244,000 square feet of retail space and is connected to the Shoppes at Venetian. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao also features 19 ultra-exclusive Paiza Mansions, which are individually designed and made available by invitation only. The Grand Suites at Four Seasons opened in October 2020 and features 289 luxury suites. The Sands Macao, the first U.S. operated Las Vegas-style casino in Macao, is situated near the Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally located between Macao's Gongbei border gate with China and Macao's central business district. The Sands Macao includes approximately 212,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 160 table games and 610 slot machines and ETGs. The Sands Macao also includes a 289-suite hotel tower, spa facilities and several restaurants and entertainment areas. We operate the gaming areas within our Macao properties pursuant to a 20-year gaming subconcession that expires in June 2022. See "Regulation and Licensing Macao Concession and Our Subconcession ." Singapore Marina Bay Sands features approximately 2,600 rooms and suites located in three 55-story hotel towers. Atop the three towers is the Sands SkyPark, an extensive outdoor recreation area with a 150-meter infinity swimming pool and leading restaurant and nightlife brands. The Integrated Resort offers approximately 160,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 530 table games and 2,100 slot machines and ETGs; The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex with signature restaurants from world-renowned chefs; an event plaza and promenade; and an art/science museum. Marina Bay Sands also includes approximately 1.2 million square feet of meeting and convention space and a state-of-the-art theater for top Broadway shows, concerts and gala events. We operate the gaming area within our Singapore property pursuant to a 30-year casino concession provided under a development agreement entered into in August 2006. See "Regulation and Licensing Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board ." In April 2019, our wholly owned subsidiary, Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. ("MBS") entered into an additional development agreement (the Second Development Agreement ) with the Singapore Tourism Board (the "STB") pursuant to which MBS has agreed to construct a development, which will include a hotel tower with approximately 1,000 rooms and suites, a rooftop attraction, convention and meeting facilities and a state-of-the-art live entertainment arena with approximately 15,000 seats (the MBS Expansion Project ). The Second Development Agreement provides for a total project cost of approximately 4.5 billion Singapore dollars ("SGD," approximately $3.3 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021). We amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility to provide for the financing of the development and construction costs, fees and other expenses related to the MBS Expansion Project pursuant to the Second Development Agreement. On September 7, 2021, we amended the 2012 Singapore Credit Facility, which, among other things, extended the deadline for delivering the construction cost estimate and the construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project to March 31, 2022. We are in the process of reviewing the budget and timing of the MBS expansion based on the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic and other factors. If we do not meet the March 31, 2022 deadline, we will not be permitted to make further draws on the Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility until these items are delivered to lenders. 7 Table of Contents Las Vegas Our Las Vegas Operating Properties is an Integrated Resort that includes The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and the Sands Expo Center. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features three hotel towers. The Venetian Tower is a 35-story three-winged luxury hotel tower with 3,015 suites. The second tower is an adjoining 1,013-suite, 12-story Venezia Tower. The Palazzo Tower has 3,064 suites situated in a 50-story luxury hotel tower, which features modern European ambience and design, and is directly connected to The Venetian Tower and Sands Expo Center. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas has approximately 225,000 square feet of gaming space and includes approximately 190 table games and 1,780 slot machines and ETGs. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features a variety of amenities for its guests, including a Paiza Club, several theaters and Canyon Ranch SpaClub. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex, referred to as the Grand Canal Shoppes. The portion of the complex located within The Venetian Tower (previously known as "The Grand Canal Shoppes") and the portion located within The Palazzo Tower (previously known as "The Shoppes at The Palazzo") were sold to GGP Limited Partnership ("GGP") in 2004 and 2008, respectively. Sands Expo Center is one of the largest overall trade show and convention facilities in the United States (as measured by net leasable square footage), with approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit and meeting space. We also own an approximately 1.1 million-gross-square-foot meeting and conference facility that links Sands Expo Center to The Venetian Resort Las Vegas. Together, we offer approximately 2.3 million gross square feet of state-of-the-art exhibition and meeting facilities that can be configured to provide small, mid-size or large meeting rooms and/or accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows. We are working with Madison Square Garden Company ("MSG") to bring a 875,000-square-foot venue built specifically for music and entertainment to Las Vegas. MSG is currently building the MSG Sphere at The Venetian, an 18,000-seat venue, which will be located near, with connectivity to, the Las Vegas Operating Properties and is currently expected to open in 2023. On March 2, 2021, we entered into definitive agreements to sell its Las Vegas real property and operations, including The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and the Sands Expo Center (collectively referred to as the Las Vegas Operations ) for a total enterprise value of $6.25 billion to Pioneer OpCo, LLC, an affiliate of certain funds managed by affiliates of Apollo Global Management, Inc., and VICI Properties L.P. We currently anticipate the closing of the transaction in the first quarter of 2022, subject to regulatory review and other closing conditions. Our Markets Macao Macao is the largest gaming market in the world and the only market in China to offer legalized casino gaming. According to Macao government statistics issued publicly on a monthly basis by the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau (commonly referred to as the "DICJ"), annual gross gaming revenues were 86.86 billion patacas in 2021 (approximately $10.81 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021), a 43.7% increase and a 70.3% decrease compared to 2020 and 2019, respectively, due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic. We welcomed approximately 8 million visitors to Macao in 2021, compared to the approximately 6 million visitors in 2020. We believe visitation will return to pre-pandemic levels and will continue to experience meaningful long-term growth. We believe this growth will be driven by a variety of factors, including the movement of Chinese citizens to urban centers in China, continued growth of the Chinese outbound tourism market, the increased utilization of existing transportation infrastructure, the introduction of new transportation infrastructure and the continued increase in hotel room inventory in Macao and neighboring Hengqin Island. There has been significant investment announced and recently completed by concessionaires and subconcessionaires in new resort development projects on Cotai. These factors should help increase 