ITEM 1 BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS 21 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 36 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 36 ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 37 ITEM 4 MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 37 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 38 ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 41 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 43 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 64 ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 65 ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 117 ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 117 ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION 118 PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 118 ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 118 ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 118 ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 118 ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 118 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 119 ITEM 16 FORM 10-K SUMMARY 126 SIGNATURES 127 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Las Vegas Sands Corp. ("LVSC," or together with its subsidiaries "we" or the "Company") is a Fortune 500 company and the leading global developer of destination properties ("Integrated Resorts") that feature premium accommodations, world-class gaming, entertainment and retail malls, convention and exhibition facilities, celebrity chef restaurants and other amenities. We currently own and operate Integrated Resorts in Asia and the United States. We believe our geographic diversity, best-in-class properties and convention-based business model provide us with the best platform in the hospitality and gaming industry to continue generating substantial growth and cash flow while simultaneously pursuing new development opportunities. Our unique convention-based marketing strategy allows us to attract business travelers during the slower mid-week periods while leisure travelers occupy our properties during the weekends. Our convention, trade show and meeting facilities, combined with the on-site amenities offered at our Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas Integrated Resorts, provide flexible and expansive space for conventions, trade shows and other meetings. We focus on the mass market, which comprises our most profitable gaming segment. We believe the mass market segment will continue to have long-term growth as a result of the introduction of more high-quality gaming facilities and non-gaming amenities into our various markets. Our properties also cater to high-end players by providing them with luxury amenities and premium service levels. These amenities include luxury accommodations, restaurants, lounges, invitation-only clubs and private gaming salons. In each of the regions where we operate, the Paiza brand is associated with certain of these exclusive facilities and represents an important part of our VIP gaming marketing strategy. We also offer players club loyalty programs at our properties, which provide access to rewards, privileges and members-only events. Additionally, we believe being in the retail mall business and, specifically, owning some of the largest retail properties in Asia will provide meaningful value for us, particularly as the retail market in Asia continues to grow. Through our 70.0% ownership of Sands China Ltd. ("SCL"), we own and operate a collection of Integrated Resorts in the Macao Special Administrative Region ("Macao") of the People's Republic of China ("China"). These properties include The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel ("The Venetian Macao"); Sands Cotai Central; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, Cotai Strip (the "Four Seasons Hotel Macao"); and the Sands Macao. In Singapore, we own and operate the iconic Marina Bay Sands, which has become one of Singapore's major tourist, business and retail destinations since its opening in 2010. Our properties in the United States include The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, a luxury resort on the Las Vegas Strip, and the Sands Expo and Convention Center (the "Sands Expo Center," and together with The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, the "Las Vegas Operating Properties") in Las Vegas, Nevada. We are dedicated to being a good corporate citizen, anchored by the core values of serving people, planet and communities. We strive to deliver a positive working environment for our team members worldwide and pledge to promote the advancement of aspiring team members through a range of educational partnerships, grants and leadership training. We also drive social impact through the Sands Cares charitable giving and community engagement program, and environmental performance through the award-winning Sands ECO360 global sustainability program. Through our Sands ECO360 global sustainability program, we develop and implement environmental practices to protect natural resources, offer our team members a safe and healthy work environment, and enhance the resort experiences of our guests. In 2019, we were the only casino and gaming company to be named on both the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and the FTSE4Good Index, recognizing our leadership and performance across economic, environmental and social areas. In addition, CDP's annual A List names the world's most pioneering companies leading on environmental transparency and performance. For the second consecutive year, we have been named to the A List for both CDP Water Security and CDP Climate Change. We are committed to creating and investing in industry-leading policies and procedures to safeguard our patrons, partners, employees and neighbors. Project Protect is our responsible gaming, anti-human trafficking and financial crime prevention program. Our industry-leading Integrated Resorts 3 Table of Contents provide substantial contributions to our host communities including growth in leisure and business tourism, sustained job creation and ongoing financial opportunities for local small and medium-sized businesses. LVSC was incorporated in Nevada in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "LVS." Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109 and our telephone number at that address is (702) 414-1000. Our website address is www.sands.com . The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings, and any amendments to those reports and any other filings we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC and are also available at the SEC's web site address at www.sec.gov . Investors and others should note we announce material financial information using our investor relations website ( https://investor.sands.com ), our company website, SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. In addition, we post certain information regarding SCL, a subsidiary of Las Vegas Sands Corp. with ordinary shares listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from time to time on our company website and our investor relations website. It is possible the information we post regarding SCL could be deemed to be material information. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file or furnish with the SEC, and any reference to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements. See "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Our principal operating and developmental activities occur in three geographic areas: Macao, Singapore and the United States. Management reviews the results of operations for each of its operating segments, which generally are our Integrated Resorts. In Macao, our operating segments are: The Venetian Macao; Sands Cotai Central; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao; and Sands Macao. In Singapore, our operating segment is Marina Bay Sands. In the United States, our operating segments are the Las Vegas Operating Properties and, through May 30, 2019, the Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem (the "Sands Bethlehem"). We also have ferry operations and various other operations that are ancillary to our Macao properties (collectively, "Ferry Operations and Other") that we present to reconcile to our consolidated statements of operations and financial condition. In addition to our reportable segments noted above, management also reviews construction and development activities for each of our primary projects currently under development, which include the expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central to The Londoner Macao (including the conversion of the Holiday Inn-branded rooms and suites to suites in The Londoner Macao Hotel), The Grand Suites at Four Seasons, The Londoner Tower Suites and our Las Vegas condominium project (for which construction currently is suspended) in the United States. 4 Table of Contents Strengths and Strategies We believe we have a number of strengths that differentiate our business from our competitors, including: Diversified, high quality Integrated Resort offerings with substantial non-gaming amenities. Our Integrated Resorts feature non-gaming attractions and amenities including world-class entertainment, expansive retail offerings and market-leading meetings, incentives, conventions and exhibitions ("MICE") facilities. These attractions and amenities enhance the appeal of our Integrated Resorts, contributing to visitation, length of stay and customer expenditure at our resorts. The broad appeal of our market-leading Integrated Resort offerings in our various markets enables us to serve the widest array of customer segments in each market. Substantial and diversified cash flow from existing operations. We generated $3.04 billion of cash from operations during the year ended December 31, 2019 , primarily from gaming and non-gaming sources, including retail malls, hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and MICE business. Market leadership in the growing high-margin mass market gaming segment. We focus on the high-margin mass gaming segment. During the twelve months ended September 30, 2019 (the latest available data at the time of filing), we had the highest percentage of gaming win from mass tables and slots of the Macao operators, with approximately 30% market share. Management estimates our mass market table revenues typically generate a gross margin approximately four times higher than the gross margin on our typical VIP table revenues in Macao. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , non-rolling gross gaming revenue contributed to approximately two-thirds of total gross gaming revenue at Marina Bay Sands. Established brands with broad regional and international market awareness and appeal. Our brands enjoy broad regional and international market awareness and appeal. The Venetian Macao is the most visited Integrated Resort in Macao, and enjoys broad brand awareness both regionally and globally. Additionally, Marina Bay Sands has become an iconic part of the Singapore skyline and is often featured in movies and other media. Experienced management team with a proven track record. Mr. Sheldon G. Adelson is our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Adelson s business career spans more than seven decades and has included creating and developing to maturity numerous companies. Mr. Adelson created the MICE-based Integrated Resort and pioneered its development in the Las Vegas and Singapore markets, as well as in Macao, where he planned and developed the Cotai Strip. Mr. Robert G. Goldstein, our President and Chief Operating Officer, has been an integral part of the Company's executive team from the beginning, joining Mr. Adelson before The Venetian Resort Las Vegas was constructed. Mr. Goldstein is one of the most respected and knowledgeable hospitality and gaming executives in the industry today, and provides strategic direction to our properties. Mr. Patrick Dumont, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has been with the Company for more than nine years and has prior experience in corporate finance and management. He and the management team are focused on increasing our balance sheet strength, preserving the Company s financial flexibility to pursue development opportunities and continuing to execute our return of excess capital to stockholders. Unique MICE and entertainment facilities. Our market-leading MICE and entertainment facilities contribute to our markets diversification and appeal to business and leisure travelers while diversifying our cash flows and increasing revenues and profit. Our 5.2 million square feet of global MICE space is specifically designed to meet the needs of meeting planners and corporate events and trade show organizers from around the world. Our experience and expertise in this industry continues to drive leisure and business tourism to our markets. The live entertainment program at our properties, specifically in Asia, is a key traffic driver and has established us as the leader in the field of tourism and leisure activities. Building on our key strengths, we seek to enhance our position as the leading developer and operator of Integrated Resorts and casinos by continuing to implement the following business strategies: Developing and diversifying our Integrated Resort offerings to include a full complement of products and services to cater to different market segments. Our Integrated Resorts include MICE space, additional retail, dining and entertainment facilities and a range of hotel offerings to cater to different segments of our markets, including branded suites and hotel rooms. We are able to leverage the recognition and the sales, marketing and reservation capabilities of premier hotel brands to attract a wide range of customers in different market segments to our properties. We believe our partnerships with renowned hotel management partners, our diverse Integrated Resort offerings and 5 Table of Contents the convenience and accessibility of our properties will continue to increase the appeal of our properties to both the business and leisure customer segments. Leveraging our scale of operations to create and maintain an absolute cost advantage. Management expects to benefit from lower unit costs due to the economies of scale inherent in our operations. Opportunities for lower unit costs include, but are not limited to: lower utility costs; more efficient staffing of hotel and gaming operations; and centralized transportation, marketing and sales, and procurement. In addition, our scale allows us to consolidate certain administrative functions and leverage purchasing on a global scale. Focusing on the high-margin mass market gaming segment, while continuing to provide luxury amenities and high service levels to our VIP and premium players. Our properties cater not only to VIP and premium players, but also to mass market customers, which comprise our most profitable gaming segment. We believe the mass market segment will continue to have long-term growth as a result of the introduction of more high-quality gaming facilities and non-gaming amenities into our various markets. Identifying targeted investment opportunities to drive growth across our portfolio. We plan to continue to invest in the expansion of our facilities and the enhancement of the leisure and business tourism appeal of our property portfolio. Our planned development projects include the renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central into The Londoner Macao, the addition of suites with The Grand Suites at Four Seasons and the Londoner Tower Suites, and the expansion of Marina Bay Sands. Our Operations Macao The Venetian Macao is the anchor property of our Cotai Strip development and is conveniently located approximately two miles from the Taipa Ferry Terminal on Macao's Taipa Island and six miles from the bridge linking Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai. The Venetian Macao includes approximately 374,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 650 table games and 1,810 slot machines and electronic table games ("ETGs"). The Venetian Macao features a 39 -floor luxury hotel tower with over 2,900 elegantly appointed luxury suites and the Shoppes at Venetian, approximately 943,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with more than 360 stores featuring many international brands and home to more than 60 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. In addition, The Venetian Macao has approximately 1.2 million square feet of convention facilities and meeting room space, an 1,800 -seat theater, the 15,000 -seat Cotai Arena that hosts world-class entertainment and sporting events and a Paiza Club. Sands Cotai Central, which features four hotel towers, is located across the street from The Venetian Macao, The Parisian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, and is our largest Integrated Resort on the Cotai Strip. Sands Cotai Central opened in phases, beginning in April 2012. The property features four hotel towers: the first hotel tower, which opened in April 2012, consisting of approximately 650 rooms and suites under the Conrad brand and approximately 600 London-themed suites upon completion of The Londoner Macao Hotel; the second hotel tower, which opened in September 2012, consisting of approximately 1,800 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand; the third hotel tower, which opened in January 2013, consisting of approximately 2,100 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand; and the fourth hotel tower, which opened in December 2015, consisting of approximately 400 rooms and suites under the St. Regis brand. The Integrated Resort includes approximately 367,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 390 table games and 1,550 slot machines and ETGs, approximately 369,000 square feet of meeting space, a 1,701-seat theater, approximately 525,000 square feet of retail space with more than 150 stores and home to more than 50 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. We previously announced the renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central into a new destination Integrated Resort, The Londoner Macao, by adding extensive thematic elements both externally and internally. The Londoner Macao will feature new attractions and features from London, including some of London s most recognizable landmarks, such as the Houses of Parliament and Big Ben. Our retail offerings will be expanded and rebranded as the Shoppes at Londoner and we will add a number of new restaurants and bars. We will add approximately 370 luxury suites in The Londoner Tower Suites and the prior Holiday Inn-branded rooms and suites are being converted to The Londoner Macao Hotel. We are utilizing suites as they are completed on a simulation basis for trial and feedback purposes. Construction has commenced and is being phased to minimize disruption during the property s peak periods. We expect The Londoner Tower Suites to be completed in late 2020 and The Londoner Macao project to be completed in phases throughout 2020 and 2021 . 6 Table of Contents On September 13, 2016, we opened The Parisian Macao, our newest Integrated Resort on the Cotai Strip, which is connected to The Venetian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, and includes approximately 253,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 300 table games and 1,440 slot machines and ETGs. The Parisian Macao also features approximately 2,500 rooms and suites and the Shoppes at Parisian, approximately 296,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with approximately 150 stores featuring many international brands and home to 24 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. Other non-gaming amenities at The Parisian Macao include a meeting room complex of approximately 63,000 square feet and a 1,200 -seat theater. Directly in front of The Parisian Macao, and connected via a covered walkway to the main building, is a half-scale authentic re-creation of the Eiffel Tower containing a viewing platform and restaurant. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, which is located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, has approximately 105,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 130 table games and 250 slot machines and ETGs at its Plaza Casino. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao also has 360 elegantly appointed rooms and suites managed by Four Seasons Hotels, Inc., several food and beverage offerings, and conference and banquet facilities. The Shoppes at Four Seasons includes approximately 242,000 square feet of retail space and is connected to the Shoppes at Venetian. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao also features 19 ultra-exclusive Paiza Mansions, which are individually designed and made available by invitation only. We previously announced The Grand Suites at Four Seasons, which will feature approximately 290 additional premium quality suites. We have initiated approved gaming operations in this space and are utilizing suites as they are completed on a simulation basis for trial and feedback purposes. We expect the project to be completed in the first half of 2020 . The Sands Macao, the first U.S. operated Las Vegas-style casino in Macao, is situated near the Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally located between Macao's Gongbei border gate with China and Macao's central business district. The Sands Macao includes approximately 213,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 190 table games and 940 slot machines and ETGs. The Sands Macao also includes a 289 -suite hotel tower, spa facilities, several restaurants and entertainment areas, and a Paiza Club. We operate the gaming areas within our Macao properties pursuant to a 20-year gaming subconcession that expires in June 2022. See "Regulation and Licensing Macao Concession and Our Subconcession ." Singapore Marina Bay Sands features approximately 2,600 rooms and suites located in three 55 -story hotel towers. Atop the three towers is the Sands SkyPark, an extensive outdoor recreation area with a 150-meter infinity swimming pool and leading restaurant and nightlife brands. The Integrated Resort offers approximately 160,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 610 table games and 2,690 slot machines and ETGs; The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex with signature restaurants from world-renowned chefs; an event plaza and promenade; and an art/science museum. Marina Bay Sands also includes approximately 1.2 million square feet of meeting and convention space and a state-of-the-art theater for top Broadway shows, concerts and gala events. We operate the gaming area within our Singapore property pursuant to a 30-year casino concession provided under a development agreement entered into in August 2006. See "Regulation and Licensing Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board ." In April 2019, our wholly owned subsidiary, Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. ("MBS") entered into an additional development agreement (the Second Development Agreement ) with the Singapore Tourism Board (the "STB") pursuant to which MBS has agreed to construct a development, which will include a hotel tower with approximately 1,000 rooms and suites, a rooftop attraction, convention and meeting facilities and a state-of-the-art live entertainment arena with approximately 15,000 seats (the MBS Expansion Project ). The Second Development Agreement provides for a total project cost of approximately SGD 4.5 billion (approximately $3.3 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2019 ). The amount of the total project cost will be finalized as we complete design and development and begins construction. Las Vegas Our Las Vegas Operating Properties is an Integrated Resort that includes The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and the Sands Expo Center. 7 Table of Contents The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features three hotel towers. The Venetian Tower is a 35-story three-winged luxury hotel tower with 3,015 suites. The second tower is an adjoining 1,013-suite, 12-story Venezia Tower. The Palazzo Tower has 3,064 suites situated in a 50-story luxury hotel tower, which features modern European ambience and design, and is directly connected to The Venetian Tower and Sands Expo Center. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas has approximately 225,000 square feet of gaming space and includes approximately 210 table games and 1,980 slot machines and ETGs. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features a variety of amenities for its guests, including a Paiza Club, several theaters and Canyon Ranch SpaClub. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex, referred to as the Grand Canal Shoppes. The portion of the complex located within The Venetian Tower (previously known as "The Grand Canal Shoppes") and the portion located within The Palazzo Tower (previously known as "The Shoppes at The Palazzo") were sold to GGP Limited Partnership ("GGP") in 2004 and 2008, respectively. Sands Expo Center is one of the largest overall trade show and convention facilities in the United States (as measured by net leasable square footage), with approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit and meeting space. We also own an approximately 1.1 million-gross-square-foot meeting and conference facility that links Sands Expo Center to The Venetian Resort Las Vegas. Together, we offer approximately 2.3 million gross square feet of state-of-the-art exhibition and meeting facilities that can be configured to provide small, mid-size or large meeting rooms and/or accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows. We are working with Madison Square Garden Company to bring a 400,000 -square-foot venue built specifically for music and entertainment to Las Vegas. Madison Square Garden is currently building the MSG Sphere at The Venetian, an 18,000 -seat venue, which will be located near, with connectivity to, the Las Vegas Operating Properties and is currently expected to open in 2021. Our Markets Macao Macao is the largest gaming market in the world and the only market in China to offer legalized casino gaming. According to Macao government statistics issued publicly on a monthly basis by the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau (commonly referred to as the "DICJ"), annual gaming revenues were 293.31 billion patacas in 2019 (approximately $36.6 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2019 ), a 3.5% decrease compared to 2018 . We expect Macao will continue to experience meaningful long-term growth and the approximately 39 million visitors Macao welcomed in 2019 will continue to increase in the future. We believe this growth will be driven by a variety of factors, including the movement of Chinese citizens to urban centers in China, continued growth of the Chinese outbound tourism market, the increased utilization of existing transportation infrastructure, the introduction of new transportation infrastructure and the continued increase in hotel room inventory in Macao and neighboring Hengqin Island. There has been significant investment announced and recently completed by concessionaires and subconcessionaires in new resort development projects on Cotai. These new resorts should help increase the critical mass on Cotai and further drive Macao's transformation into a leading business and leisure tourism hub in Asia. Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia, with Baccarat being the most popular game. We continue to experience Macao market-leading visitation and are focused on driving high-margin mass market gaming, while providing luxury amenities and high service levels to our VIP and premium players. We intend to continue to introduce more modern and popular products that appeal to the Asian marketplace and believe our high-quality gaming product has enabled us to capture a meaningful share of the overall Macao gaming market across all types of players. Proximity to Major Asian Cities Visitors from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and other locations in Asia can reach Macao in a relatively short time, using a variety of transportation methods, and visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take advantage of short travel times by air to Zhuhai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou or Hong Kong (followed by a road, ferry or helicopter trip to Macao). In addition, numerous air carriers fly directly into Macao International Airport from many major cities in Asia. 8 Table of Contents Macao draws a significant number of customers who are visitors or residents of Hong Kong. One of the major methods of transportation to Macao from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry service, including our ferry service, Cotai Water Jet. Macao is also accessible from Hong Kong by helicopter. In addition, the bridge linking Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai, which opened in 2018, has reduced the travel time between Hong Kong and Macao and the travel time from the Hong Kong Int