Item 1. Business. Masco Corporation is a global leader in the design, manufacture and distribution of branded home improvement and building products. Our portfolio of industry-leading brands associated with our continuing operations includes BEHR paint; DELTA and HANSGROHE faucets and bath and shower fixtures; KICHLER decorative and outdoor lighting; and HOT SPRING spas. We leverage our powerful brands across product categories, sales channels and geographies to create value for our customers and shareholders. We believe that our solid results of operations and financial position for 2019 resulted from our focus on our three strategic pillars: drive the full potential of our core businesses; leverage opportunities across our enterprise; and actively manage our portfolio. In 2019, we also continued to focus on our capital allocation strategy to enhance shareholder value by repurchasing over 20 million shares of our common stock and increasing our quarterly dividend by 12.5 percent. We will continue the disciplined execution of our strategy in 2020. In addition, in 2019, we completed the divestitures of our Milgard Windows and Doors business ("Milgard") and our UK Windows Group business ("UKWG"), and in November we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Masco Cabinetry business, which we expect to close in the first quarter of 2020. As a result, our Windows and Other Specialty Products segment and our Cabinetry Products segment are accounted for as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion in this "Item 1." relates only to our continuing operations unless otherwise noted. Masco was incorporated under the laws of Michigan in 1929 and was reincorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1968. Our Business Segments We report our financial results from continuing operations in two segments, our Plumbing Products segment and our Decorative Architectural Products segment, which are aggregated by product similarity. Our Decorative Architectural Products segment is impacted by seasonality and normally experiences stronger sales during the second and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season for repair and remodel activity. Plumbing Products The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment sell a wide variety of products that are manufactured or sourced by us. Our plumbing products include faucets, showerheads, handheld showers, valves, bath hardware and accessories, bathing units, shower bases and enclosures and toilets. We sell these products to home center and online retailers and to wholesalers and distributors that, in turn, sell them to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers, smaller retailers and consumers.The majority of our faucet, bathing and showering products are sold in North America and Europe under the brand names DELTA , BRIZO , PEERLESS , HANSGROHE , AXOR , GINGER , NEWPORT BRASS , BRASSTECH and WALTEC . Our BRISTAN and HERITAGE products are sold primarily in the United Kingdom. We manufacture acrylic tubs, bath and shower enclosure units , and shower bases and trays . Our DELTA, PEERLESS and MIROLIN products are sold primarily to home center retailers in North America. Our MIROLIN products are also sold to wholesalers and distributors in Canada. Our H PPE shower enclosures and shower trays are sold through wholesale channels primarily in Europe. Our spas, exercise pools and fitness systems are manufactured and sold under our HOT SPRING , CALDERA , FREEFLOW SPAS , FANTASY SPAS and ENDLESS POOLS brands, as well as under other trademarks. Our spa and exercise pools are sold worldwide to independent specialty retailers and distributors and to online mass merchant retailers. Certain exercise pools are also available on a consumer-direct basis in North America and Europe, while our fitness systems are sold through independent specialty retailers as well as on a consumer-direct basis in some areas. 2 Also included in our Plumbing Products segment are brass , copper and composite plumbing system components and other non-decorative plumbing products that are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware wholesalers, home center and online retailers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These products are marketed primarily in North America under our BRASSCRAFT , PLUMB SHOP , COBRA , COBRA PRO and MASTER PLUMBER brands and are also sold under private label. We also supply high-quality, custom thermoplastic solutions, extruded plastic profiles and specialized fabrications, as well as PEX tubing, to manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers for use in diverse applications that include faucets and plumbing supplies, appliances, oil and gas equipment, building products and automotive components. We believe that our plumbing products are among the leaders in sales in North America and Europe. Competitors of the majority of our products in this segment include Fortune Brands Home Security, Inc.'s Moen, Rohl and Riobel brands, Kohler Co., Lixil Group Corporation s American Standard and Grohe brands and Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. s Pfister faucets. Competitors of our spas and exercise pools and systems include Artesian Spas, Jacuzzi and Master Spas brands. Foreign manufacturers competing with us are located primarily in Europe and China. We face significant competition from private label products. Many of the faucet and showering products with which our products compete are manufactured by foreign manufacturers that are putting pressure on price. The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment manufacture products in North America, Europe and Asia and source products from Asia and other regions. Competition for our plumbing products is based largely on brand reputation, product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, breadth of product offering and price. Many of our plumbing products contain brass, the major components of which are copper and zinc. We have multiple sources, both domestic and foreign, for the raw materials used in this segment, and sufficient raw materials have been available for our needs. We have encountered price volatility for brass, brass components and any components containing copper and zinc. To help reduce the impact of this volatility, from time to time we may enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers or, occasionally, use derivative instruments. In addition, some of the products in this segment that we import have been and may in the future be subject to duties and tariffs. Decorative Architectural Products We produce architectural coatings, including paints, primers, specialty coatings, stains and waterproofing products. These products are sold in North America, South America and China under the brand names BEHR , KILZ and other trademarks to do it yourself and professional customers through home center retailers and other retailers. Net sales of architectural coatings comprised approximately 31 percent , 30 percent and 32 percent of our consolidated net sales from our continuing operations in 2019, 2018, and 2017 , respectively. Our BEHR products are sold through The Home Depot, our largest customer overall, as well as this segment s largest customer. The loss of this segment s sales to The Home Depot would have a material adverse effect on this segment s business and on our consolidated business as a whole. Our competitors in this segment include large national and international brands such as Benjamin Moore Co., PPG Industries, Inc.'s Glidden, Olympic, Pittsburgh Paints and PPG brands, The Sherwin Williams Company's Minwax, Sherwin-Williams, Thompson s Water Seal and Valspar brands a nd RPM International, Inc.'s Rust-Oleum and Zinsser brands, as well as many regional and other national brands. We believe that brand reputation is an important factor in consumer selection, and that competition in this industry is also based largely on product features and innovation, product quality, customer service and price. Titanium dioxide and acrylic resins are principal raw materials in the manufacture of architectural coatings. The price for titanium dioxide can fluctuate as a result of global supply and demand dynamics and production capacity limitations, which can have a material impact on our costs and results of operations in this segment. The price of acrylic resins fluctuates based on the price of its components, which can also have a material impact on our costs and results of operations in this segment. In addition, the prices of crude oil, natural gas and certain petroleum by-products can impact our costs and results of operations in this segment. We have agreements with certain significant suppliers for this segment that are intended to help assure continued supply. 3 Our Decorative Architectural Products segment includes branded cabinet and door hardware, functional hardware, wall plates, hook and hook rail products, and picture hanging accessories, which are manufactured for us and sold to home center retailers, mass retailers, online retailers, other specialty retailers, original equipment manufacturers and wholesalers. These products are sold under the LIBERTY , BRAINERD , FRANKLIN BRASS and other trademarks. Our key competitors in North America include Amerock Hardware, Richelieu Hardware Ltd., Top Knobs and private label brands. Decorative bath hardware, shower accessories, and shower doors are sold under the brand names DELTA and FRANKLIN BRASS and other trademarks to wholesalers, home center retailers, mass retailers and other specialty retailers. Competitors for these products include Fortune Brands Home Security, Inc.'s Moen brand, Gatco Fine Bathware, Kohler Co. and private label brands. This segment also includes decorative indoor and outdoor lighting fixtures, ceiling fans, landscape lighting and LED lighting systems. These products are sold to home center retailers, online retailers, electrical distributors, landscape distributors and lighting showrooms under the brand names KICHLER and LAN and under other trademarks. Competitors of these products include FX Luminaire, Generation Brands, Hinkley Lighting, Inc., Hubbell Incorporated's Progress Lighting brand, Hunter Fan Company and private label brands. We import certain materials and products for this segment that have been and may in the future be subject to duties and tariffs. Additional Information Intellectual Property We hold numerous U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing processes. We view our trademarks and other intellectual property rights as important, but do not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights that would have a material adverse effect on our present business as a whole. Environmental Laws and Regulations Affecting Our Business We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign government regulations regarding the protection of the environment, and we have certain responsibilities for environmental remediation. We monitor applicable laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and incur ongoing expense relating to compliance. Compliance with these laws and regulations may affect our product and production costs. Many products in our Plumbing Products segment are subject to restrictions on the amount of certain materials and chemicals, including lead and mercury, that can be in the product, and on water flow rates. Our Decorative Architectural Products segment is subject to requirements relating to the emission of volatile organic compounds, which has required us to reformulate paint products and may require further reformulation in the future. We do not expect that compliance with the federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will result in material capital expenditures or have a material adverse effect on our competitive position or results of operations and financial position. Backlog We do not consider backlog orders to be material in either of our segments. Employees At December 31, 2019 , our continuing operations employed approximately 18,000 people. In addition, our Masco Cabinetry business employed approximately 4,000 people whose employment with us will terminate upon completion of the divestiture. We have generally experienced satisfactory relations with our employees. Available Information Our website is www.masco.com. Our periodic reports and all amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This Report is being posted on our website concurrently with its filing with the SEC. Material contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. Our reports filed with the SEC also may be found on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . 4