Item 1. Business. Masco Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company ) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and distribution of branded home improvement and building products. Our portfolio of industry-leading brands includes BEHR paint; DELTA and HANSGROHE faucets, bath and shower fixtures; KICHLER decorative and outdoor lighting; LIBERTY branded decorative and functional hardware; and HOT SPRING spas. We leverage our powerful brands across product categories, sales channels and geographies to create value for our customers and shareholders. We believe that our solid results of operations and financial position for 2023 resulted from our continued focus on our three strategic pillars: drive the full potential of our core businesses; leverage opportunities across our enterprise; and actively manage our portfolio. In 2023, we acquired all of the share capital of Sauna360 Group Oy ("Sauna360") for approximately 124 million ($136 million), net of cash acquired. In addition, we continued to return value to our shareholders by repurchasing approximately 6.2 million shares of our common stock and increasing our quarterly dividend by approximately two percent compared to 2022. Our Business Segments We report our financial results in two segments, our Plumbing Products segment and our Decorative Architectural Products segment, which are aggregated by product similarity. Our Decorative Architectural Products segment is impacted by seasonality and normally experiences stronger sales during the second and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season for repair and remodel activity. 2 Plumbing Products The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment sell a wide variety of products that are manufactured or sourced by us. Our plumbing products include faucets, showerheads, handheld showers, valves, bath hardware and accessories, bathing units, shower bases and enclosures, shower drains, steam shower systems, sinks, kitchen accessories and toilets. We primarily sell these products to home center retailers, online retailers, mass merchandisers, wholesalers and distributors that, in turn, sell them to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers, smaller retailers and consumers, and homebuilders. The majority of our faucet, bathing and showering products are sold primarily in North America, Europe and China under the brand names DELTA , BRIZO , PEERLESS , HANSGROHE , AXOR , KRAUS , EASY DRAIN , GINGER , NEWPORT BRASS , BRASSTECH and WALTEC . Our BRISTAN and HERITAGE products are sold primarily in the United Kingdom. We manufacture acrylic tubs, bath and shower enclosure units , and shower bases and trays . Our DELTA, PEERLESS and MIROLIN products are sold primarily to home center retailers in North America. Our MIROLIN products are also sold to wholesalers and distributors in Canada. Our spas, exercise pools, aquatic fitness systems and saunas are manufactured and sold under our HOT SPRING , CALDERA , FREEFLOW SPAS , FANTASY SPAS , ENDLESS POOLS , TYLO and FINNLEO brands, as well as under other trademarks. Our spas, exercise pools and saunas are sold worldwide to independent specialty retailers and distributors and our spas and exercise pools are also sold to online mass merchant retailers. Certain exercise pools are also available on a consumer-direct basis in North America and Europe, while our aquatic fitness systems are sold through independent specialty retailers as well as on a consumer-direct basis in some areas. Included in our Plumbing Products segment are brass , copper and composite plumbing system components and other non-decorative plumbing products that are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware wholesalers, home center and online retailers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These products are marketed primarily in North America under our BRASSCRAFT , PLUMBSHOP and MASTER PLUMBER brands and are also sold under private label. Within our Plumbing Products segment we develop connected water products that enhance the experience with water in homes and businesses. These systems include touchless activation, voice activation, controlled volume dispensing and provide for monitoring and controlling the temperature and flow of water and are compatible with a range of faucets, showerheads and other showering components. We also supply high-quality, custom thermoplastic solutions, extruded plastic profiles and specialized fabrications, as well as PEX tubing, to manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers for use in diverse applications that include faucets and plumbing supplies, appliances, oil and gas equipment and building products. We believe that our plumbing products are among the leaders in sales in North America and Europe. Competitors of the majority of our products in this segment include Dornbracht AG Co. KG, Zurn Elkay Water Solutions Corporation, Fortune Brands Innovations, Inc.'s Moen, Rohl and Riobel brands, Kohler Co., Lixil Group Corporation s American Standard and Grohe brands, Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc.'s Pfister faucets as well as private label and digitally native brands. Competitors of our spas, exercise pools, aquatic fitness systems and saunas include Artesian Spas, Harvia, Jacuzzi and Master Spas brands, among others. Foreign manufacturers competing with us are located primarily in Europe, China and Canada. Additionally, we face significant competition from private label products and digitally native brands. The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment manufacture products primarily in North America and Europe as well as in Asia and source products from Asia and other regions. Competition for our plumbing products is based largely on brand reputation, product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, breadth of product offering and price. Many of the faucet and showering products with which our products compete are manufactured by low-cost foreign manufacturers that contribute to price competition. 3 Many of our plumbing products contain brass, the major components of which are copper and zinc. We have multiple sources, both domestic and foreign, for our raw materials used in this segment. We have encountered price volatility for brass, brass components and any components containing copper and zinc. To help reduce the impact of this volatility, from time to time we may enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers. In addition, some of the products in this segment that we import have been and may in the future be subject to duties and tariffs. Decorative Architectural Products Our Decorative Architectural Products segment primarily includes architectural coatings, including paints, primers, specialty coatings, stains and waterproofing products, as well as paint applicators and accessories. These products are sold in North America and South America under the brand names BEHR , KILZ , WHIZZ , Elder Jenks and other trademarks to do it yourself and professional customers through home center retailers and other retailers. Net sales of architectural coatings comprised approximately 32 percent, 32 percent and 30 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Our BEHR products are sold through The Home Depot, our largest customer overall, as well as this segment s largest customer. Our Behr business grants Behr brand exclusivity in the retail sales channel in North America to The Home Depot. The granting of exclusivity affects our ability to sell those products and brands to other customers, and the loss of this segment s sales to The Home Depot would have a material adverse effect on this segment s business and on our consolidated business as a whole. Our competitors in this segment include large national and international brands such as Benjamin Moore Co., PPG Industries, Inc.'s Glidden, Olympic, Pittsburgh Paints and PPG brands, RPM International, Inc.'s Rust-Oleum and Zinsser brands, The Sherwin Williams Company's Minwax, Sherwin-Williams, Thompson s Water Seal, Valspar and Purdy brands and the Wooster Brush Company, as well as many regional and other national brands. We believe that brand reputation is an important factor in consumer selection, and that competition in this industry is also based largely on product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, breadth of product offering and price. Acrylic resins and titanium dioxide are principal raw materials in the manufacture of architectural coatings. The price of acrylic resins fluctuates based on the price of its components, which can have a material impact on our costs and results of operations in this segment. The price for titanium dioxide can fluctuate as a result of global supply and demand dynamics and production capacity limitations, which can have a material impact on our costs and results of operations in this segment. In addition, the prices of crude oil, natural gas, propylene and certain petroleum by-products can impact our costs and results of operations in this segment. We have multiple sources, both domestic and foreign, for the raw materials used in this segment. We have encountered price volatility for propylene and certain petroleum by-products. To help reduce the impact of this price volatility, we have and may in the future enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers. We import certain materials and products for this segment that have been and may in the future be subject to duties and tariffs. We also have agreements with certain significant suppliers for this segment that are intended to help assure continued supply. Our Decorative Architectural Products segment includes branded cabinet and door hardware, functional hardware, wall plates, hook and hook rail products, and outdoor living hardware, which are manufactured for us and sold to home center retailers, mass retailers, online retailers, other specialty retailers, original equipment manufacturers and wholesalers. These products are sold under the LIBERTY , BRAINERD , FRANKLIN BRASS and other trademarks. Our key competitors in North America include Amerock Hardware, Richelieu Hardware Ltd., Top Knobs and private label brands. Decorative bath hardware, shower accessories, mirrors and shower doors are sold under the brand names DELTA and FRANKLIN BRASS and other trademarks to home center retailers, mass retailers, online retailers, other specialty retailers and wholesalers. Competitors for these products include American Bath Group, LLC's Dreamline brand, Fortune Brands Innovations, Inc.'s Moen brand, Gatco Fine Bathware, Kohler Co. and private label brands. This segment also includes decorative indoor and outdoor lighting fixtures, ceiling fans, landscape lighting and LED lighting systems. These products are sold to home center retailers, online retailers, electrical distributors, landscape distributors and lighting showrooms under the brand names KICHLER and LAN and under other trademarks. Competitors of these products include Acuity, FX Luminaire, Generation Brands, Hinkley Lighting, Inc., Hunter Fan Company, Progress Lighting brand and private label brands. 4 Additional Information Intellectual Property We hold numerous U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing processes. We view our trademarks and other intellectual property rights as important, but do not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights that would have a material adverse effect on our present business as a whole. Laws and Regulations Affecting Our Business We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign government laws and regulations. For a more detailed description of the various laws and regulations that impact our business, see