Item 1. Business. INDEX TO BUSINESS Section Page General 3 Business Segments 4 U.S. Pharmaceutical 4 Prescription Technology Solutions 7 Medical-Surgical Solutions 7 International 7 Investments, Restructuring, Business Combinations, and Divestitures 8 Competition 8 Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, and Licenses 8 Human Capital 9 Government Regulation 10 Other Information about the Business 13 Forward-Looking Statements 13 General McKesson Corporation together with its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company, McKesson, we, our, or us and other similar pronouns), which traces its business roots to 1833, is a diversified healthcare services leader dedicated to advancing health outcomes for patients everywhere. Our teams partner with biopharma companies, care providers, pharmacies, manufacturers, governments, and others to deliver insights, products, and services to help make quality care more accessible and affordable. The Company s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, all references in this document to a particular year refers to the Company s fiscal year. The Company was incorporated on July 7, 1994 in the State of Delaware. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), are available free of charge on the Company s website ( www.mckesson.com under the Investors Financials SEC Filings caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Annual Report ) is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the website is www.sec.gov . 3 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Business Segments The Company operates its business in four reportable segments: U.S. Pharmaceutical, Prescription Technology Solutions ( RxTS ), Medical-Surgical Solutions, and International. Our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar and over-the-counter ( OTC ) pharmaceutical drugs, and other healthcare-related products in the United States ( U.S. ). This segment provides practice management, technology, clinical support, and business solutions to community-based oncology and other specialty practices. In addition, the segment sells financial, operational, and clinical solutions to pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate sites) and provides consulting, outsourcing, technological, and other services. Our Prescription Technology Solutions segment helps solve medication access, affordability, and adherence challenges for patients by working across healthcare to connect patients, pharmacies, providers, pharmacy benefit managers, health plans, and biopharma. RxTS serves our biopharma and life sciences partners, delivering innovative solutions that help people get the medicine they need to live healthier lives. RxTS also offers prescription price transparency, benefit insight, dispensing support services, as well as third-party logistics and wholesale distribution support designed to benefit stakeholders. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment provides medical-surgical supply distribution, logistics, and other services to healthcare providers, including physician offices, surgery centers, nursing homes, hospital reference labs, and home health care agencies. We offer more than 245,000 national brand medical-surgical products as well as McKesson s own line of high-quality products through a network of distribution centers in the U.S. Our International segment provides distribution and services to wholesale, institutional, and retail customers in Canada and Europe where we own, partner, or franchise with retail pharmacies, and support better, safer patient care by delivering vital medicines, supplies, and information technology solutions. U.S. Pharmaceutical Segment: Our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment provides distribution and logistics services for branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar, and OTC pharmaceutical drugs along with other healthcare-related products to customers. This business provides solutions and services to pharmacies, hospitals, oncology and other specialty practices, pharmaceutical manufacturers, biopharma partners, physicians, payors, and patients throughout the U.S. We also source generic pharmaceutical drugs through our ClarusONE Sourcing Services LLP joint venture with Walmart Inc. ( ClarusONE ). Our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment operates and serves customers through a network of 27 distribution centers in the U.S., including two strategic redistribution centers. We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance safety, reliability, and product availability. For example, we offer McKesson Connect SM , an internet-based ordering system that provides item look-up and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering, purchasing, third-party reconciliation, and account management functionality. We make extensive use of technology as an enabler to ensure customers have the right products at the right time in the right place. To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology, which is an analytical approach that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data, and analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs, and enhance service accuracy and safety. We provide solutions to our customers including supply management technology, world-class marketing programs, managed care, repackaging products, and services to help them meet their business and quality goals. We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency and accuracy both internally and for our customers, as well as make investments to increase capacity and automation. We have four primary customer pharmaceutical distribution channels: (i) retail national accounts, which include national and regional retail chains, food and drug combinations, mail order pharmacies, and mass merchandisers, (ii) community pharmacies and health (formerly described as independent, small, and medium chain retail pharmacies), (iii) institutional healthcare providers such as hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, and long-term care providers, and (iv) oncology, biopharma, and other specialty partners. 4 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Retail National Accounts: We provide business solutions that help our retail national account customers increase revenues and profitability. Solutions include: Central Fill SM Prescription refill service that enables pharmacies to more quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately, and at a lower cost, while reducing inventory levels and improving customer service. Strategic Redistribution Centers Two facilities totaling over 740,000 square feet that offer access to inventory for single source warehouse purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and biologics. These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery. McKesson SynerGx Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program and inventory management that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing, and one-stop shopping. Inventory Management An integrated solution comprised of forecasting software and automated replenishment technologies that reduce inventory-carrying costs. ExpressRx Track Pharmacy automation solution featuring state-of-the-art robotics, upgraded imaging, and expanded vial capabilities, and industry-leading speed and accuracy in a small footprint. Community Pharmacy and Health: We strengthen the overall health of community pharmacies and elevate the role they play in people s lives. We accomplish this by providing supply chain excellence, pharmacy and patient solutions, as well as supporting independent pharmacies through industry and legislative advocacy. Our pharmacy and patient solutions include: Health Mart A national network of approximately 4,500 independently-owned pharmacies and one of the industry s most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs. Health Mart provides franchisees support for operational excellence, managed care contracting, marketing, merchandising solutions, and clinical programs to enhance patient care. Health Mart Atlas Comprehensive managed care services that help community pharmacies save time, access competitive reimbursement rates, and improve cash flow. McKesson Reimbursement Advantage SM ( MRA ) MRA is one of the industry s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization packages, comprising financial services (automated claim resubmission), analytic services, and customer care. McKesson Provider Pay Provider Pay is an automated reconciliation and payment management solution designed to maximize third-party cash flow and pursue unpaid claims. McKesson OneStop Generics Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing, and one-stop shopping. Pinpoint Community Solutions McKesson s perpetual inventory management system targeted to independent pharmacy owners with five or fewer stores. The solution provides customers the opportunity to improve cash flow and increase efficiency with inventory visibility to help maximize operational performance. FrontEdge Strategic planning, merchandising, and price maintenance program that helps community pharmacies maximize store profitability. McKesson RxOwnership Program A confidential, no-fee resource for pharmacists and pharmacy owners interested in buying, starting, or selling an independent pharmacy, regardless of their pharmacy affiliation. Institutional Healthcare Providers: At McKesson, we are relentless in our pursuit of opportunities to achieve operational efficiency, reduce waste, and improve the financial performance of our customers so they can achieve more of their goals today and into the future. Solutions include: RxO Advisory Services A suite of supply chain management, pharmacy optimization, and 340B program advisory services driven by data and analytics. 5 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION McKesson Plasma and Biologics Specialty and plasma drug distributor that leads in market exclusive drug access; partner to health systems customers in navigating the complexities of limited distribution drug; and optimization of McKesson Distribution benefits. Outpatient and Specialty Pharmacy A portfolio of services and solutions customized to each customer s business and clinical strategy. Contracting and Contract/Purchasing Optimization Solutions across generics, specialty, branded products, biosimilars, and 340B products, for inpatient and outpatient settings. Supply Assurance Solutions and strategies to enhance product availability and proactively manage inventory of critical items. Patient Assistance Solutions Technologies and services that enable health systems and providers to better financially support their patients and community benefit programs. The U.S. Pharmaceutical segment also offers solutions which enable its customers to drive greater efficiencies in their day-to-day operations, effectively managing their inventories and complying with complex government regulations. Solutions include McKesson Pharmacy Systems, MacroHelix, and Supply Logix, all of which provide innovative software technology and services that support retail pharmacies and hospitals. Oncology, Biopharma, and Other Specialty Partners: The U.S. Pharmaceutical segment provides a range of solutions to oncology and other specialty practices and offers community specialists (oncologists, rheumatologists, ophthalmologists, urologists, neurologists, and other specialists) an extensive set of customizable solutions and services designed to strengthen core practice operations, enhance value-based care delivery, and expand their service offering to patients. Community-based physicians in this business have broad flexibility and discretion to select the products and commitment levels that best meet their practice needs. Services in provider solutions include specialty drug distribution, group purchasing organizations ( GPO ) like Onmark , technology solutions, practice consulting services, and vaccine distribution, including our exclusive distributor relationship with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention s ( CDC ) Vaccines for Children program. Additionally, McKesson has proudly supported the U.S. efforts to fight the pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) by distributing certain COVID-19 vaccines since December 2020 at the direction of the U.S. government. This program concluded in the second quarter of fiscal 2024, at which point we began transitioning the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines commercially through our customer pharmaceutical distribution channels. This business provides a variety of solutions, including practice operations, healthcare information technology, revenue cycle management and managed care contracting solutions, evidence-based guidelines, and quality measurements to support The U.S. Oncology Network ( USON ), one of the nation s largest networks of physician-led, integrated, community-based oncology practices dedicated to advancing high-quality, evidence-based cancer care. SCRI Oncology, LLC, an oncology research business in which we own a 51% controlling interest, is one of the nation s largest research networks and specializes in enhancing clinical trial access and availability across the country. This segment includes Ontada , McKesson s oncology technology and insights business providing software to support the clinical, financial, and operational needs of our oncology practice customers. Ontada also partners with oncology providers and biopharma partners to perform real-world evidence studies, retrospective research, and to provide clinical data insights, advisory solutions and education opportunities. When we discuss specialty products or services, we consider the following factors: diseases requiring complex treatment regimens such as cancer and rheumatoid arthritis; plasma and biologics products; ongoing clinical monitoring requirements, high-cost, special handling, storage, and delivery requirements and, in some cases, exclusive distribution arrangements. Our use of the term specialty may not be comparable to that used by other industry participants, including our competitors. 6 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Prescription Technology Solutions Segment: Our Prescription Technology Solutions segment works across healthcare to connect patients, pharmacies, providers, pharmacy benefit managers, health plans, and biopharma to deliver medication access solutions that support patients from first prescription fill to ongoing therapy, regardless of their insurance coverage. RxTS has connections with most electronic health record systems, over 50,000 pharmacies, approximately 950,000 providers, most pharmacy benefit managers and health plans, and has supported over 650 biopharma brands representing most therapeutic areas. Through its industry connections and ability to navigate the healthcare ecosystem, RxTS offers innovative solutions created to benefit healthcare stakeholders. Its comprehensive solution suites span across the entire patient journey, including medication access and affordability, prescription decision support, prescription price transparency, benefit insight and dispensing support services, as well as third-party logistics and wholesale distribution support, to help increase speed to therapy, reduce prescription abandonment, and support improved health outcomes for the patient. In the past year, RxTS helped patients save more than $8.8 billion on brand and specialty medications, helped to prevent an estimated 10.7 million prescriptions from being abandoned due to affordability challenges, and helped patients access their medicine more than 94 million ti mes. Medical-Surgical Solutions Segment: Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment delivers medical-supply distribution, logistics, biomedical maintenance, and other services to healthcare providers across the alternate-site spectrum. Our more than 285,000 customers include physician offices, surgery centers, post-acute care facilities, hospital reference labs, and home health agencies. We partner with manufacturers and channel partners to support our key target end-markets, including primary care, extended care, government, and other markets. We distribute medical-surgical supplies (such as gloves, needles, syringes, and wound care products), infusion pumps, laboratory equipment, and pharmaceuticals. Through a network of distribution centers in the U.S., we offer more than 245,000 products from national brand manufacturers and McKesson s own brand of high-quality products. Through the right mix of products and services, we help improve efficiencies, profitability, and compliance. We also never lose focus on helping customers improve patient and business outcomes. We develop customized plans to address the product, operational, and clinical support needs of our customers, including inventory management, reducing administrative burdens, and training and educating clinical staff. We deliver for our customers, so they can deliver and care for their patients. International Segment: Our International segment provides distribution and services to wholesale, institutional, and retail customers in Canada and Europe where we own, partner, or franchise with retail pharmacies. Our operations in Canada also support better, safer patient care by delivering vital medicines, supplies, and information technology solutions to customers, and through several retail health and wellness brands, across Canada. McKesson Canada is one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesale and retail distributors in Canada. The wholesale business delivers products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics and institutions in Canada through a national network of distribution centers and provides logistics and distribution services for manufacturers. Beyond wholesale pharmaceutical logistics and distribution, McKesson Canada provides automation and technology solutions to its retail and hospital customers. Additionally, McKesson Canada provides comprehensive specialty health services to Canadians and provides biopharma services to manufacturers, including a national network of specialty pharmacies, personalized patient care and support programs, and INVIVA, Canada s first and largest accredited network of private infusion clinics. McKesson Canada also owns and operates PDCI, Canada s leading market access consultancy, supporting manufacturers as they introduce new products into the Canadian market. The Canada retail business includes approximately 2,700 banner pharmacies under the IDA , Guardian , The Medicine Shoppe , Remedy sRx , Proxim , and Uniprix banners, and approximately 400 owned pharmacies under the Rexall TM brand where we provide patients with greater choice and access, integrated pharmacy care and industry-leading service levels. McKesson Canada also owns and operates Well.ca TM , a leading Canadian online health and wellness retailer. 7 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION In July 2021, we announced our intention to exit our businesses in Europe. We divested the majority of our European businesses during fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023. Our remaining operations in Europe provide distribution and services to wholesale and retail customers in Norway where we own, partner, or franchise with retail pharmacies. We continue to evaluate suitable exit alternatives for our retail and distribution businesses in Norway. Refer to Financial Note 2, Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our European divestitures . Investments, Restructuring, Business Combinations, and Divestitures We invest in new and existing distribution centers to increase scale and capacity, improve efficiency through automation and technology, and enhance regulatory compliance capabilities. Additionally, we invest in data and analytics to support our growth priorities, including artificial intelligence ( AI ). We are in the early stages of exploring potential AI capabilities and related data and analytics across our enterprise to improve productivity and efficiency, as well as enhance our products and services to better support patients, employees, and customers. We have undertaken additional strategic initiatives in recent years designed to increase operational efficiencies, focus on our core healthcare businesses, execute our business strategy, and enhance our competitive position. These initiatives are detailed in Financial Note 2, Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, and Financial Note 3, Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Charges, Net, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Competition We operate in highly competitive environments in North America and Norway. In recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. In the pharmaceutical distribution environment in which our U.S. Pharmaceutical and International segments operate, we face strong competition from international, national, regional, and local full-line, short-line, and specialty distributors, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chain drug stores, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies, and large payer organizations. We consider our largest competitors in distribution, wholesaling, and logistics to be Cencora, Inc. and Cardinal Health, Inc. Our retail businesses, which primarily operate in our International segment, face competition from various global, national, regional, and local retailers, including chain and independent pharmacies. Our RxTS business experiences substantial competition from many companies, including other biopharma services companies, software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry. Competition in this business varies in size from large to small companies, in geographical coverage, and in scope and breadth of products and services offered. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment provides medical-surgical supply distribution, logistics, and other services to healthcare providers, including physician offices, surgery centers, nursing homes, hospital reference labs, home health care agencies, and other alternative sites with competition from a wide range of national and regional medical supply and equipment distributors throughout the U.S. In addition, we compete with other service providers and healthcare manufacturers, as well as other potential customers of our businesses, which may from time to time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that might otherwise be provided by our businesses. We believe that our scale and diversity of product and service offerings are our primary competitive advantages. In all areas, key competitive factors include price, quality of service, breadth of product lines, innovation, adoption of new and evolving technologies, and, in some cases, convenience to the customer. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, and Licenses McKesson and its subsidiaries hold patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets related to McKesson products and services. We pursue patent protection for our innovations and obtain copyright protection for our original works of authorship when such protection is advantageous. Through these efforts, we have developed a portfolio of patents and copyrights in the U.S. and worldwide. In addition, we have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. 8 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION We believe that, in the aggregate, McKesson s confidential information, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and intellectual property licenses are important to its operations and market position, but we do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property portfolio will be sufficient to deter misappropriation, theft, or misuse of our technology, nor that we can successfully enjoin infringers. We periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third-party patents and other intellectual property rights. These claims may result in McKesson entering settlement agreements, paying damages, discontinuing use or sale of accused products, or ceasing other activities. While the outcome of any litigation or dispute is inherently uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement notices would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold inbound licenses for certain intellectual property that is used internally, and in some cases, utilized in McKesson s products or services. While in the future it may be necessary to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our operations as well as our products and services are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with any third party. Human Capital Everything we do at McKesson begins with our employees, who bring our mission and purpose to life every day. As of March 31, 2024, we had approximately 51,000 employees worldwide, which includes 6,000 part-time employees. We had approximately 35,000 employees in the U.S., 13,000 employees in Canada, and 3,000 employees in Europe. Our employees in Europe primarily support our operations in Norway. We also supplement our work-force with contractors and/or consultants for certain business projects, processes, and/or operations as demand requires. Inclusion and Belonging: As a company, we believe building a more inclusive future is everyone s responsibility. We build successful teams by fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging and ensuring we attract and retain the best talent at all levels of our organization. To help strengthen our company, we offer various learning opportunities, such as our company-wide inclusion curriculum and additional initiatives to recognize, value and leverage the diversity of our workforce, enhance the inclusiveness of our culture and candidly discuss important topics happening in the world around us. We also offer employees the opportunity to join employee resource groups ( ERGs ), which are voluntary, employee-led, company-sponsored networks that aim to make a positive impact on our employees lives. Our ERGs focus on helping employees make authentic connections, share and affirm their identities and perspectives, showcase leadership skills and find ways to nurture and support belonging and empowerment. Our 11 ERGs provide a sense of community and insights into the perspectives and experiences across different ethnicities, genders, generations, abilities, and/or military/veteran status, as well as supporting members and allies of the LGBTQIA+ community. At March 31, 2024, women and people of color represented the following: McKesson Overall McKesson Leadership (2) Metric (1) Women 62 % 43 % People of Color (3) (4) 49 % 28 % (1) The data for our metrics is derived from our voluntary self-identification process as of March 31, 2024 and therefore represents our best estimate at this time. (2) Represents our leadership at the vice president level and above. (3) Represents U.S. employees only because the data for Canada and Europe is not available. (4) People of Color includes the following self-identification categories: American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Two or More Races. 9 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Culture and Leadership : One of McKesson s defining characteristics is our strong culture. Every day, we bring our employee value proposition to life by taking pride in fostering a sense of belonging, finding meaning in our work, and caring for each other, our customers, and all those who depend on us. More than two decades ago, our leadership team created a foundational set of values grounded in the belief that the way we do business is just as important as the business itself. Today, our I 2 CARE values (Integrity, Inclusion, Customer-First, Accountability, Respect, Excellence) and ILEAD leadership behaviors (Inspire, Leverage, Execute, Advance, Develop) continue to stand the test of time and remain at the core of our daily actions from how we interact with each other and our customers, to how we make decisions, both big and small. As we work to shape the future of health and embrace the ongoing evolution of our company, we will continue to utilize our strengths to drive lasting change while remaining deeply rooted in our purpose of Advancing Health Outcomes for All . Investment in Employees: As an industry leader, we are committed t