Item 1. Business. General McKesson Corporation ( McKesson, the Company, or we, and other similar pronouns), which traces its business roots to 1833, is a diversified healthcare services leader dedicated to advancing health outcomes for patients everywhere. Our teams partner with biopharma companies, care providers, pharmacies, manufacturers, governments, and others to deliver insights, products, and services to help make quality care more accessible and affordable. The Company s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, all references in this document to a particular year refers to the Company s fiscal year. The Company was incorporated on July 7, 1994 in the State of Delaware. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), are available free of charge on the Company s website ( www.mckesson.com under the Investors Financials SEC Filings caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC or the Commission ). The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Annual Report ) is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the website is www.sec.gov . Business Segments Commencing with the second quarter of 2021, the Company operates its business in four reportable segments: U.S. Pharmaceutical, Prescription Technology Solutions ( RxTS ), Medical-Surgical Solutions, and International. The Company s equity method investment in Change Healthcare LLC ( Change Healthcare JV ), which was split-off from McKesson in the fourth quarter of 2020, has been included in Other for retrospective periods presented. Our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar and over-the-counter ( OTC ) pharmaceutical drugs, and other healthcare-related products. This segment provides practice management, technology, clinical support, and business solutions to community-based oncology and other specialty practices. In addition, the segment sells financial, operational, and clinical solutions to pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate site) and provides consulting, outsourcing, technological, and other services. Our Prescription Technology Solutions segment serves our biopharma and life sciences partners and patients. RxTS addresses medication challenges for patients throughout their journeys by working across healthcare to connect pharmacies, providers, payers, and biopharma companies to deliver innovative access and adherence solutions as well as dispensing support services, third-party logistics and wholesale distribution support designed to benefit stakeholders. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment provides medical-surgical supply distribution, logistics, and other services to healthcare providers, including physician offices, surgery centers, nursing homes, hospital reference labs, and home health care agencies. We offer more than 285,000 national brand medical-surgical products as well as McKesson s own line of high-quality products through a network of distribution centers within the United States ( U.S. ). Our International segment provides distribution and services to wholesale, institutional, and retail customers in 11 European countries and Canada where we own, partner or franchise with retail pharmacies, and support better, safer patient care by delivering vital medicines, supplies, and information technology solutions. 3 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION U.S. Pharmaceutical Segment: Our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment provides distribution and logistics services for branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar, and OTC pharmaceutical drugs along with other healthcare-related products to customers. This business provides solutions and services to pharmacies, hospitals, oncology and other specialty practices, pharmaceutical manufacturers, biopharma partners, physicians, payers, and patients throughout the U.S. and Puerto Rico. We also source generic pharmaceutical drugs through our ClarusONE Sourcing Services LLP joint venture with Walmart ( ClarusONE ). Our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment operates and serves customers through a network of 29 distribution centers, including two strategic redistribution centers. We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance safety, reliability, and product availability. For example, we offer McKesson Connect SM , an internet-based ordering system that provides item look-up and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering, purchasing, third-party reconciliation, and account management functionality. We make extensive use of technology as an enabler to ensure customers have the right products at the right time in the right place. To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology, which is an analytical approach that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data, and analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs, and enhance service accuracy and safety. We provide solutions to our customers including supply management technology, world-class marketing programs, managed care, repackaging products, and services to help them meet their business and quality goals. We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency and accuracy both internally and for our customers. We have four primary customer pharmaceutical distribution channels: (i) retail national accounts, which include national and regional chains, food and drug combinations, mail order pharmacies, and mass merchandisers, (ii) community pharmacies and health (formerly described as independent, small, and medium chain retail pharmacies), (iii) institutional healthcare providers such as hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, and long-term care providers, and (iv) oncology, biopharma, and other specialty partners. Retail National Accounts: We provide business solutions that help retail national account customers increase revenues and profitability. Solutions include: Central Fill SM - Prescription refill service that enables pharmacies to more quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately, and at a lower cost, while reducing inventory levels and improving customer service. Strategic Redistribution Centers - Two facilities totaling over 740,000 square feet that offer access to inventory for single source warehouse purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and biologics. These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery. McKesson SynerGx - Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program and inventory management that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing, and one-stop shopping. Inventory Management - An integrated solution comprising forecasting software and automated replenishment technologies that reduce inventory-carrying costs. ExpressRx Track - Pharmacy automation solution featuring state-of-the-art robotics, upgraded imaging, and expanded vial capabilities, and industry-leading speed and accuracy in a small footprint. 4 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION Community Pharmacy and Health: We provide managed care contracting, branding and advertising, merchandising, purchasing, operational efficiency, and automation that help community pharmacists focus on patient care while improving profitability. Solutions include: Health Mart - A national network of approximately 4,700 independently-owned pharmacies and one of the industry s most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs. Health Mart provides franchisees support for managed care contracting, branding and local marketing solutions, the Health Mart private label line of products, merchandising solutions, and programs for enhanced patient support. Health Mart Atlas - Comprehensive managed care and reconciliation assistance services that help community pharmacies save time, access competitive reimbursement rates, and improve cash flow. McKesson Reimbursement Advantage SM ( MRA ) - MRA is one of the industry s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization packages, comprising financial services (automated claim resubmission), analytic services, and customer care. McKesson OneStop Generics - Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing, and one-stop shopping. Health Mart and Sunmark - Complete line of products that provide community pharmacies with value-priced alternatives to national brands. FrontEdge - Strategic planning, merchandising, and price maintenance program that helps community pharmacies maximize store profitability. McKesson RxOwnership Program - Assist independent pharmacist owners with the opportunity to remain independent via succession planning and business operation loans. Health Mart Digital Portfolio - Introducing an enhanced online experience for pharmacies and patients. Institutional Healthcare Providers: At McKesson, we are relentless in our pursuit of opportunities to achieve operational efficiency, reduce waste, and improve the financial performance of our customers so they can achieve more of their goals today and into the future. Solutions include: RxO Advisory Services A suite of supply chain management, pharmacy optimization, and 340B program advisory services. McKesson Plasma and Biologics A robust portfolio of plasma-derivatives and biologic products. Outpatient and Specialty Pharmacy A portfolio of services and solutions customized to each customer s business and clinical strategy. Contracting and Contract/Purchasing Optimization Solutions across generics, specialty, branded products, biosimilars, and 340B products, for inpatient and outpatient settings. Supply Assurance Solutions and strategies to enhance product availability and proactively manage inventory of critical items. Patient Assistance Solutions Solutions and resources for patient financial assistance and community benefit programs. 5 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION Oncology, Biopharma, and Other Specialty Partners: The U.S. Pharmaceutical segment provides a range of solutions to oncology and other specialty practices and offers community specialists (oncologists, rheumatologists, ophthalmologists, urologists, neurologists, and other specialists) an extensive set of customizable products and services designed to strengthen core practice operations, enhance value-based care delivery, and expand their service offering to patients. Community-based physicians in this business have broad flexibility and discretion to select the products and commitment levels that best meet their practice needs. Services in provider solutions include specialty drug distribution, group purchasing organizations ( GPO ) like Onmark , technology solutions, practice consulting services, and vaccine distribution, including our exclusive distributor relationship with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention s ( CDC ) Vaccines for Children program. Additionally, to support the U.S. efforts to fight the pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus ( COVID-19 ), this segment has been distributing certain COVID-19 vaccines since December 2020 at the direction of the U.S. government. This business provides a variety of solutions, including practice operations, healthcare information technology, revenue cycle management and managed care contracting solutions, evidence-based guidelines, and quality measurements to support U.S. Oncology Network ( USON ), one of the nation s largest networks of physician-led, integrated, community-based oncology practices dedicated to advancing high-quality, evidence-based cancer care. We also support U.S. Oncology Research, one of the nation s largest research networks, specializing in oncology clinical trials. This segment includes our Ontada business, providing software to support the clinical, financial, and operational needs of our oncology practice partners. Ontada also partners with oncology providers and biopharma partners to perform real-world evidence studies, retrospective research, and to provide clinical data insights, advisory solutions and education opportunities. This segment also offers solutions which enable its customers to drive greater efficiencies in their day to day operations, effectively managing their inventories and complying with complex government regulations. Solutions include McKesson Pharmacy Systems, MacroHelix, and Supply Logix, all of which provide innovative software technology and services that support retail pharmacies and hospitals. When we discuss specialty products or services, we consider the following factors: diseases requiring complex treatment regimens such as cancer and rheumatoid arthritis; plasma and biologics products; ongoing clinical monitoring requirements, high-cost, special handling, storage, and delivery requirements and, in some cases, exclusive distribution arrangements. Our use of the term specialty may not be comparable to that used by other industry participants, including our competitors. Prescription Technology Solutions Segment: Our Prescription Technology Solutions segment works across healthcare to connect pharmacies, providers, payers, and biopharma companies to deliver medication access and adherence solutions that support patients from first prescription fill to ongoing therapy, regardless of their insurance coverage. RxTS has connections with most electronic health record systems, over 50,000 pharmacies, more than 750,000 providers, most payers and pharmacy benefit managers, and over 650 biopharma brands representing most therapeutic areas. Through its industry connections and ability to navigate the healthcare ecosystem, RxTS accelerates innovative solutions created to benefit healthcare stakeholders. Its comprehensive solution suites span across the entire patient journey, including medication access and affordability, prescription decision support and dispensing support services, as well as third-party logistics and wholesale distribution support, to help increase speed to therapy, reduce prescription abandonment, and support improved health outcomes for the patient. In the past year, RxTS helped patients save more than $6 billion on brand and specialty medications, helped to prevent more than 9 million prescriptions from being abandoned due to affordability challenges, and helped patients access their medicine more than 67 million times. 6 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION Medical-Surgical Solutions Segment: Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment delivers medical-supply distribution, logistics, biomedical maintenance, and other services to healthcare providers across the alternate-site spectrum. Our more than 275,000 customers include physician offices, surgery centers, post-acute care facilities, hospital reference labs, and home health agencies. We partner with manufacturers and channel partners to support our key target end-markets, including primary care, extended care, government, and other markets. We distribute medical-surgical supplies (such as gloves, needles, syringes, and wound care products), infusion pumps, laboratory equipment, and pharmaceuticals. Through a network of distribution centers within the U.S., we offer more than 285,000 products from national brand manufacturers and McKesson s own brand of high-quality products. Through the right mix of products and services, we help improve efficiencies, profitability, and compliance. We also never lose focus on helping customers improve patient and business outcomes. We develop customized plans to address the product, operational, and clinical support needs of our customers, including tackling inventory management, reducing administrative burdens, and training and educating clinical staff. We deliver for our customers, so they can deliver and care for their patients. Additionally, under contracts with the Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) and Pfizer, Inc., McKesson s Medical-Surgical business leverages its expertise to manage the assembly, storage, and distribution of supply kits needed to administer COVID-19 vaccines, as well as some of the sourcing of those supplies. The kits are produced and distributed at the direction of HHS to support the administration of all COVID-19 vaccines approved in the U.S. International Segment: Our International segment provides distribution and services to wholesale, institutional, and retail customers in 11 European countries where we own, partner, or franchise with retail pharmacies and operate through two businesses: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Retail Pharmacy. Our operations in Canada support better, safer patient care by delivering vital medicines, supplies, and information technology solutions to customers, and through several retail health and wellness brands, across Canada. Our European Pharmaceutical Distribution business delivers pharmaceutical and other healthcare-related products to pharmacies across Europe. This business functions as a vital link, using technology-enabled management systems at our regional wholesale branches to connect manufacturers to retail pharmacies, supplying medicines and other products sold in pharmacies. Our European Retail Pharmacy business serves patients and consumers in European countries directly through approximately 2,000 of our own pharmacies and 4,800 participant pharmacies operating under brand partnership arrangements. This business provides customers with traditional prescription pharmaceuticals, non-prescription products, and medical services, as well as e-commerce operating under the Lloyds pharmacy branding in Belgium, Ireland, and Italy. In addition, we partner with independent pharmacies under local banner programs. In fiscal 2022, we announced our intention to exit our businesses in Europe. We entered into an agreement to sell certain of our businesses in the European Union ( E.U. ) located in France, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, Belgium, and Slovenia, our German headquarters and wound-care business, part of a shared services center in Lithuania, and our ownership stake in a joint venture in the Netherlands ( E.U. disposal group ). We also completed the sale of our Austrian business. On April 6, 2022, we completed the sale of our retail and distribution businesses in the United Kingdom ( U.K. disposal group ). Of the owned and banner pharmacies referenced above, all except for approximately 300 owned and 100 partner pharmacies are included within these disposal groups. In executing our strategy to exit Europe, we continue to evaluate suitable exit alternatives for our remaining businesses in Norway and Denmark. Refer to Financial Note 2, Held for Sale, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our European divestiture activities . McKesson Canada is one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesale and retail distributors in Canada. The wholesale business delivers products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics and institutions in Canada through a national network of distribution centers and provides logistics and distribution services for manufacturers. 7 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION Beyond wholesale pharmaceutical logistics and distribution, McKesson Canada provides automation and technology solutions to its retail and hospital customers. Additionally, McKesson Canada provides comprehensive specialty health services to Canadians, including a national network of specialty pharmacies, personalized patient care and support programs, and INVIVA, Canada s first and largest accredited network of private infusion clinics. McKesson Canada also owns and operates PDCI, Canada s leading market access consultancy, supporting manufacturers as they introduce new products into the Canadian market. The Canada retail business includes over 2,700 banner pharmacies under the IDA , Guardian , The Medicine Shoppe , Remedy sRx , Proxim , and Uniprix banners, and approximately 400 owned pharmacies under the Rexall TM brand where we provide patients with greater choice and access, integrated pharmacy care and industry-leading service levels. McKesson Canada also owns and operates Well.ca TM , a leading Canadian online health and wellness retailer. Other: Change Healthcare: Our equity ownership interest in the Change Healthcare JV, a joint venture, was accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Change Healthcare JV provided software and analytics, network solutions, and technology-enabled services that deliver wide-ranging financial, operational, and clinical benefits to payers, providers and consumers. On March 10, 2020, we completed the separation of our interest in the Change Healthcare JV through a split-off transaction. This transaction reduced our investment in the Change Healthcare JV to zero. Refer to Financial Note 4, Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information related to this transaction. Restructuring, Business Combinations, Investments, and Divestitures We have undertaken additional strategic initiatives in recent years designed to further focus on our core healthcare businesses and enhance our competitive position. These initiatives are detailed in Financial Notes 2, 3, and 4, Held for Sale, Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Charges, Net, and Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Competition We operate in highly competitive environments, primarily in North America and Europe. In recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. In the pharmaceutical distribution environment in which our U.S. Pharmaceutical and International segments operate, we face strong competition from international, national, regional, and local full-line, short-line, and specialty distributors, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chain drug stores, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies, and large payer organizations. We consider our largest competitors in distribution, wholesaling, and logistics to be AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. Our retail businesses, which primarily operate in our International segment, face competition from various global, national, regional, and local retailers, including chain and independent pharmacies. Our RxTS business experiences substantial competition from many companies, including other biopharma services companies, software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry. Competition in this business varies in size from large to small companies, in geographical coverage, and in scope and breadth of products and services offered. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment provides medical-surgical supply distribution, logistics, and other services to healthcare providers, including physician offices, surgery centers, nursing homes, hospital reference labs, home health care agencies, and other alternative sites with competition from a wide range of national and regional medical supply and equipment distributors throughout the U.S. In addition, we compete with other service providers and healthcare manufacturers, as well as other potential customers of our businesses, which may from time to time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that might otherwise be provided by our businesses. We believe that our scale and diversity of product and service offerings are our primary competitive advantages. In all areas, key competitive factors include price, quality of service, breadth of product lines, innovation and, in some cases, convenience to the customer. 8 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, and Licenses McKesson and its subsidiaries hold patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets related to McKesson products and services. We pursue patent protection for our innovations and obtain copyright protection for our original works of authorship, when such protection is advantageous. Through these efforts, we have developed a portfolio of patents and copyrights in the U.S. and worldwide. In addition, we have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. We believe that, in the aggregate, McKesson s confidential information, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and intellectual property licenses are important to its operations and market position, but we do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property portfolio will be sufficient to deter misappropriation, theft, or misuse of our technology, nor that we can successfully enjoin infringers. We periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third-party patents and other intellectual property rights. These claims may result in McKesson entering settlement agreements, paying damages, discontinuing use or sale of accused products, or ceasing other activities. While the outcome of any litigation or dispute is inherently uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement notices would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold inbound licenses for certain intellectual property that is used internally, and in some cases, utilized in McKesson s products or services. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our operations as well as our products and services are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with any third party. Human Capital Our vision for a healthier world begins with our employees, who bring our mission to life every day. We deliver programs that focus on improving employee health and wellness, creating opportunities for growth and development, and providing an inclusive workplace where our employees can reach their full potential. At March 31, 2022, we had approximately 75,000 employees worldwide, including 17,000 part-time employees, as well as 33,000 employees in the U.S. and 13,000 employees in Canada. We also supplement our work force with contractors and/or consultants for certain business projects, processes, and/or operations as demand requires, including for programs such as the COVID-19 vaccine distribution and related ancillary supply kit programs. During 2022, we entered into an agreement to sell the E.U. disposal group which is expected to close within the second half of fiscal year 2023 and completed the sale of our Austrian business. On April 6, 2022, we completed the sale of the U.K. disposal group. At March 31, 2022, we had approximately 29,000 employees in Europe, including 11,000 part-time employees, the majority of whom we expect will be transferred with the E.U. disposal group and U.K. disposal group. Refer to Financial Note 2, Held for Sale, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our European divestiture activities. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ( DEI ): We are committed to making the principles of DEI integral to everything we do because we believe building a healthier future is everyone s business. We build successful teams by recruiting, developing, and retaining diverse talent and we recognize our culture of inclusion and belonging as an important element that drives long-term shareholder value. We have 10 employee resource groups ( ERGs ) that are voluntary, employee-led, company-sponsored groups that focus on making a difference among our U.S. employees. ERGs can help employees make authentic connections, showcase leadership skills, and create a positive impact. 9 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION At March 31, 2022, women and people of color represented the following: McKesson Overall McKesson Leadership (2) Metric (1) Women (3) 64 % 46 % People of Color (4) (5) 47 % 22 % (1) The data for our metrics is derived from our voluntary self-identification process as of March 31, 2022 and therefore represents our best estimate at this time. For fiscal year 2021, our metrics did not include our employees related to USON as the data was not available. (2) Represents our leadership at the vice president level and above. (3) Represents worldwide employees. In North America, women represent 60% of McKesson Overall and 48% of McKesson Leadership. (4) Represents U.S. employees only because the data for Canada and Europe is not available. (5) People of Color includes the following races and ethnicities: American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Two or More Races. Culture and Leadership: What sets McKesson apart as an exceptional place is our people. Our employees understand that togethe