Item 1. Business. General McKesson Corporation ( McKesson, the Company, or we and other similar pronouns), originally founded in 1833, is a global leader in healthcare supply chain management solutions, retail pharmacy, community oncology and specialty care, and healthcare information technology. McKesson partners with life sciences companies, manufacturers, providers, pharmacies, governments and other healthcare organizations to help provide the right medicines, medical products and healthcare services to the right patients at the right time, safely and cost-effectively. The Company s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, all references in this document to a particular year shall mean the Company s fiscal year. The Company was incorporated on July 7, 1994 in the State of Delaware. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act, ) are available free of charge on the Company s website ( www.mckesson.com under the Investors Financials SEC Filings caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC or the Commission ). The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the website is www.sec.gov . Business Segments The Company operates its business through three reportable segments: U.S. Pharmaceutical and Specialty Solutions, European Pharmaceutical Solutions and Medical-Surgical Solutions. All remaining operating segments and business activities that are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure are referred to and included in Other. Our U.S. Pharmaceutical and Specialty Solutions segment distributes branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar and over-the-counter ( OTC ) pharmaceutical drugs and other healthcare-related products. This segment provides practice management, technology, clinical support and business solutions to community-based oncology and other specialty practices. This segment also provides solutions for life sciences companies including offering multiple distribution channels and clinical trial access to specific patient populations through our network of oncology physicians. In addition, the segment sells financial, operational and clinical solutions to pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate site) and provides consulting, outsourcing and other services. Our European Pharmaceutical Solutions segment provides distribution and services to wholesale, institutional and retail customers in 13 European countries where we own, partner or franchise with retail pharmacies, as further described below. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment distributes medical-surgical supplies and provides logistics and other services to healthcare providers in the United States. Other primarily consists of the following: McKesson Canada which provides better, safer care by delivering vital medicines, supplies and information technologies throughout Canada and operates Rexall Health retail pharmacies; McKesson Prescription Technology Solutions ( MRxTS ) which provides innovative technological and connectivity solutions to pharmaceutical companies, retail pharmacies, health systems, clinics and payers across the healthcare industry; and Our investment in the Change Healthcare joint venture, which was separated from the Company in the fourth quarter of 2020 as discussed in more detail below. 3 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION U.S. Pharmaceutical and Specialty Solutions Segment: Our U.S. Pharmaceutical and Specialty Solutions segment provides distribution and logistics services for branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar and OTC pharmaceutical drugs along with other healthcare-related products to customers. This business provides solutions and services to pharmacies, hospitals, pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, payers and patients throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. We also source generic pharmaceutical drugs through our joint sourcing entity, ClarusONE Sourcing Services LLP ( ClarusONE ). Our U.S. Pharmaceutical and Specialty Solutions segment operates and serves customers through a network of 30 distribution centers, as well as a primary redistribution center and a strategic redistribution center, along with four third-party logistics sites within our McKesson Life Sciences business. We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance safety, reliability and product availability. For example, we offer McKesson Connect SM , an internet-based ordering system that provides item look-up and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering, purchasing, third-party reconciliation and account management functionality. We make extensive use of technology as an enabler to ensure customers have the right products at the right time in the right place. To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology, which is an analytical approach that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data and analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs and enhance service accuracy and safety. We provide solutions to our customers including supply management technology, world-class marketing programs, managed care, repackaging products and services to help them meet their business and quality goals. We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency and accuracy both internally and for our customers. We have three primary customer pharmaceutical distribution channels: (i) retail national accounts which include national and regional chains, food and drug combinations, mail order pharmacies and mass merchandisers, (ii) independent, small and medium chain retail pharmacies, and (iii) institutional healthcare providers such as hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks and long-term care providers. Retail National Accounts: We provide business solutions that help retail national account customers increase revenues and profitability. Solutions include: Central FillSM - Prescription refill service that enables pharmacies to more quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately and at a lower cost, while reducing inventory levels and improving customer service. Redistribution Centers - Two facilities totaling over 830,000 square feet that offer access to inventory for single source warehouse purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and biologics. These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery. McKesson SynerGx - Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program and inventory management that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing and one-stop shopping. Inventory Management - An integrated solution comprising forecasting software and automated replenishment technologies that reduce inventory-carrying costs. ExpressRx Track - Pharmacy automation solution featuring state-of-the-art robotics, upgraded imaging and expanded vial capabilities, and industry-leading speed and accuracy in a small footprint. Independent, Small and Medium Chain Retail Pharmacies: We provide managed care contracting, branding and advertising, merchandising, purchasing, operational efficiency and automation that help independent pharmacists focus on patient care while improving profitability. Solutions include: Health Mart - Health Mart is a national network of more than 5,000 independently-owned pharmacies and is one of the industry s most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs. Health Mart provides franchisees support for managed care contracting, branding and local marketing solutions, the Health Mart private label line of products, merchandising solutions and programs for enhanced patient support. 4 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION Health Mart Atlas - Comprehensive managed care and reconciliation assistance services that help independent pharmacies save time, access competitive reimbursement rates and improve cash flow. McKesson Reimbursement AdvantageSM ( MRA ) - MRA is one of the industry s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization packages, comprising financial services (automated claim resubmission), analytic services and customer care. McKesson OneStop Generics - Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing and one-stop shopping. Sunmark - Complete line of more than 600 products that provide retail independent pharmacies with value-priced alternatives to national brands. FrontEdge - Strategic planning, merchandising and price maintenance program that helps independent pharmacies maximize store profitability. McKesson Sponsored Clinical Services (SCS) Network - Access to patient-support services that allow pharmacists to earn service fees and to develop stronger patient relationships. McKesson RxOwnership Program - Assist independent pharmacist owners with the opportunity to remain independent via succession planning and business operation loans. Institutional Healthcare Providers: We provide electronic ordering/purchasing and supply chain management systems that help customers improve financial performance, increase operational efficiencies and deliver better patient care. Solutions include: Fulfill-RxSM - Ordering and inventory management system that empowers hospitals to optimize the often complicated processes related to unit-based cabinet replenishment and inventory management. Asset Management - Award-winning inventory optimization and purchasing management program that helps institutional providers lower costs while ensuring product availability. SKY Packaging - Blister, Unit of Use and Unit dose packaging containing the most widely prescribed dosages and strengths in generic oral-solid medications. SKY Packaging enables acute care, long-term care and institutional pharmacies to provide cost-effective, uniform packaging. McKesson Plasma and Biologics - A full portfolio of plasma-derivatives and biologic products. McKesson OneStop Generics - Described above. This segment also provides a range of solutions to oncology and other specialty practices operating in communities across the country, to pharmaceutical and biotechnology suppliers who manufacture specialty drugs and vaccines, and to payers and hospitals. We have two core specialty business lines: Specialty Provider Organization and McKesson Life Sciences. Specialty Provider Organization: This business offers community specialists (oncologists, rheumatologists, ophthalmologists, urologists, neurologists and other specialists) an extensive set of customizable products and services designed to strengthen core practice operations, enhance value-based care delivery and expand their service offering to patients. These services include specialty drug distribution, group purchasing organizations ( GPO ) like Onmark , technology solutions, practice consulting services and vaccine distribution, including our exclusive distributor relationship with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention s ( CDC ) Vaccines for Children program. Community-based physicians in this business have broad flexibility and discretion to select the products and commitment levels that best meet their practice needs. This business also provides a variety of solutions, including practice operations, healthcare information technology, revenue cycle management and managed care contracting solutions, evidence-based guidelines and quality measurements to support U.S. Oncology Network, one of the nation s largest networks of physician-led, integrated, community-based oncology practices dedicated to advancing high-quality, evidence-based cancer care. We also support U.S. Oncology Research, one of the nation s largest research networks, specializing in oncology clinical trials. 5 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION McKesson Life Sciences: This business helps life sciences companies drive faster and greater market access, optimize patient experiences and deliver better business results with a comprehensive suite of solutions for biopharmaceutical products. RxCrossroads provides a comprehensive suite of solutions for life sciences companies including program pharmacy services, third-party logistics ( 3PL ), clinical trial support, patient assistance programs, access and adherence solutions, and other tailored services for pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, we help life sciences companies minimize reimbursement challenges while offering affordable, safe access to therapies through Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies ( REMS ) programs. Biologics by McKesson specialty pharmacy solutions help pharmaceutical and biotech partners to effectively distribute oral and self-administered specialty products to patients across the country. When we discuss specialty products or services, we consider the following factors: diseases requiring complex treatment regimens such as cancer and rheumatoid arthritis; plasma and biologics products; ongoing clinical monitoring requirements, high-cost, special handling, storage and delivery requirements and, in some cases, exclusive distribution arrangements. Our use of the term specialty may not be comparable to that used by other industry participants, including our competitors. European Pharmaceutical Solutions Segment: Our European Pharmaceutical Solutions segment provides distribution and services to wholesale, institutional and retail customers in 13 European countries where we own, partner or franchise with retail pharmacies, as further described below. The segment consists of two businesses: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Retail Pharmacy. Our Pharmaceutical Distribution business delivers pharmaceutical and other healthcare-related products to pharmacies across Europe. This business functions as a vital link connecting manufacturers to retail pharmacies, supplying medicines and other products sold in pharmacies. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare-related products are stored at regional wholesale branches using technology-enabled management systems. Our European business leverages its scale and provides innovative and effective medical care services to create enhanced customer value. Our Retail Pharmacy business serves patients and consumers in European countries directly through approximately 2,200 of our own pharmacies and 7,900 participant pharmacies operating under brand partnership arrangements. In addition, this business includes outpatient dispensing and homecare arrangements mainly in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) and provides traditional prescription pharmaceuticals, non-prescription products and medical services and operates under the Lloyds Pharmacy brand in Belgium, Ireland, Italy, Sweden and the U.K. In addition, we partner with independent pharmacies under our franchise program. Medical-Surgical Solutions Segment: Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment delivers medical-supply distribution, logistics, biomedical and other services to healthcare providers across the alternate-site spectrum. Our more than 200,000 customers include physicians offices, surgery centers, post-acute care facilities, hospital reference labs, home health agencies, and occupational and alternative health sites. To support the country s efforts to fight the coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) pandemic, in the fourth quarter of 2020 McKesson began working closely with government agencies such as the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) to get critical supplies to healthcare providers who need them. We distribute medical-surgical supplies (such as gloves, needles, syringes and wound care products), infusion pumps, laboratory equipment and pharmaceuticals. Through a network of distribution centers within the U.S., we offer more than 275,000 products from national brand manufacturers and McKesson s own high-quality product line. Through the right mix of products and services, we help improve efficiencies, profitability and compliance. We also never lose focus on helping customers improve patient and business outcomes. We develop customized plans to address the product, operational and clinical support needs of our customers, including tackling inventory management, reducing administrative burdens, and training and educating clinical staff. We care for our customers, so they can care for their patients. Other: Other primarily consists of the following operating segments and business activities: McKesson Canada, MRxTS and our investment in the Change Healthcare LLC joint venture. 6 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION McKesson Canada : This business is one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesale and retail distributors in Canada. The wholesale business delivers their products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics and institutions in Canada through a network of 15 distribution centers and provides logistics and distribution services for manufacturers. Beyond wholesale pharmaceutical logistics and distribution, McKesson Canada provides automation solutions to its retail and hospital customers. McKesson Canada also provides health information exchange solutions that streamline clinical and administrative communication. The retail business operates more than 400 owned pharmacies under the Rexall Health brand in Canada where we provide patients with greater choice and access, integrated pharmacy care and industry-leading service levels. MRxTS: This business provides innovative technologies that support retail pharmacies and manufacturers that ultimately enable patients to fulfill their prescriptions. This business supports our customers, with a comprehensive, expanded portfolio of solutions designed to help them drive business growth, realize greater business efficiencies, deliver high-quality care, enhance medication adherence and safety, and more effectively connect with other players in the pharmaceutical supply chain. Change Healthcare: Our equity ownership interest in Change Healthcare LLC ( Change Healthcare JV ), a joint venture, has been accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Change Healthcare LLC provides software and analytics, network solutions and technology-enabled services that deliver wide-ranging financial, operational and clinical benefits to payers, providers and consumers. On March 10, 2020, we completed the separation of our interest in the Change Healthcare JV through a split-off transaction. This transaction reduced our investment in the Change Healthcare JV to zero. Refer to Financial Note 2 , Investment in Change Healthcare Joint Venture , to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to this transaction. Restructuring, Business Combinations, Investments and Divestitures We have undertaken additional strategic initiatives in recent years designed to further focus on our core healthcare businesses and enhance our competitive position. These initiatives are detailed in Financial Notes 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 , Investment in Change Healthcare Joint Venture , Held for Sale , Restructuring, Impairment and Related Charges , and Business Acquisitions and Divestitures to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition We face highly competitive global environments. Additionally, in recent years the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. In the pharmaceutical distribution environment in which our U.S. Pharmaceutical and Specialty Solutions and European Pharmaceutical Solutions segments and McKesson Canada business operate, we face strong competition from international, national, regional and local full-line, short-line and specialty distributors, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chain drug stores, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies and large payer organizations. Our retail businesses, which primarily operate in our European Pharmaceutical Solutions segment and McKesson Canada business, face competition from various local, regional, national and global retailers, including chain and independent pharmacies. We consider our largest competitors in distribution, wholesaling and logistics to be AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment operates primarily in providing distribution and logistics services to physicians offices, surgery centers, post-acute care facilities, hospital reference labs, home health agencies, and occupational and alternative health sites and faces competition from a wide range of medical and surgical supply and equipment distributors throughout the United States. Our MRxTS business experiences substantial competition from many companies, including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry. Competition in this business varies in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of products and services offered. In addition, we compete with other service providers, pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers as well as other potential customers of our businesses, which may from time-to-time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that might otherwise be provided by our businesses. We believe that our scale and diversity of product and service offerings are our primary competitive advantages. In all areas, key competitive factors include price, quality of service, breadth of product lines, innovation and, in some cases, convenience to the customer. 7 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses McKesson and its subsidiaries hold patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets related to McKesson products and services. We pursue patent protection for our innovations and obtain copyright protection for our original works of authorship, when such protection is advantageous. Through these efforts, we have developed a portfolio of patents and copyrights in the U.S. and worldwide. In addition, we have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. We believe that, in the aggregate, McKesson s confidential information, patents, copyrights, trademarks and intellectual property licenses are important to its operations and market position, but we do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property portfolio will be sufficient to deter misappropriation, theft, or misuse of our technology, nor that we can successfully enjoin infringers. We periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third party patents and other intellectual property rights. These claims may result in McKesson entering settlement agreements, paying damages, discontinuing use or sale of accused products, or ceasing other activities. While the outcome of any litigation or dispute is inherently uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement notices would have a material adverse impact on our results of operation. We hold inbound licenses for certain intellectual property that is used internally, and in some cases, utilized in McKesson s products or services. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our operations and products and services are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with any third party. Other Information about the Business Customers: During 2020 , sales to our ten largest customers, including GPOs accounted for approximately 51% of our total consolidated revenues. Sales to our largest customer, CVS Health Corporation ( CVS ), accounted for approximately 20% of our total consolidated revenues in 2020 . In May 2019, we extended our pharmaceutical distribution relationship with CVS to June 2023. Our ten largest customers comprised approximately 37% , and CVS was approximately 20% , of total trade accounts receivable at March 31, 2020 . We also have agreements with GPOs, each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers, as well as with government entities and agencies. The accounts receivable balances are with individual members of the GPOs, and therefore no significant concentration of credit risk exists. Substantially all of these revenues and accounts receivable are included in our U.S. Pharmaceutical and Specialty Solutions segment. Suppliers: We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for more than 6% of our purchases in 2020 . The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are generally sound. The ten largest suppliers in 2020 accounted for approximately 44% of our purchases. Some of our distribution arrangements with the manufacturers provides us compensation based on a percentage of our purchases. In addition, we have certain distribution arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers that include an inflation-based compensation component whereby we benefit when the manufacturers increase their prices as we sell our existing inventory at the new higher prices. For these manufacturers, a reduction in the frequency and magnitude of price increases, as well as restrictions in the amount of inventory available to us, could have an adverse impact on our gross profit margin. Research and Development: Research and development ( R D ) expenses were $96 million , $71 million and $125 million during 2020 , 2019 and 2018 . R D costs were higher in 2018 prior to the sale of our Enterprise Information Solutions ( EIS ) business. Environmental Regulation: Our operations are subject to regulations under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if in the future we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. 8 Table of Contents McKESSON CORPORATION We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment through an environmental strategy and sustainability program. We sold our chemical distribution operations in 1987 and retained responsibility for certain environmental obligations. Agreements with the Environmental Protection Agency and certain states may require environmental assessments and cleanups at several closed sites. These matters are described further in Financial Note 21 , Commitments and Contingent Liabilities , to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when the Company considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs. Environmental costs and accruals, including that related to our legacy chemical distribution operations, presently are not material to our operations or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental matters. Other than the expected expenditures that may be required in connection with our legacy chemical distribution operations, we do not anticipate making substantial capital expenditures either for environmental issues, or to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. The amount of our capital expenditures for environmental compliance was not material in 2020 and is not expected to be material in the next year. Employees: On March 31, 2020 , we employed approximately 80,000 employees, including approximately 20,000 part-time employees. Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations: Certain financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations is included in Financial Note 24 , Segments of Business , to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I below for information regarding risks associated with our foreign operations. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial C