Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 27 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. Reserved 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: 32 Recent Developments and Significant Items Affecting Comparability 32 Financial Outlook 34 Summary of Results 35 Discussion and Analysis of Historical Results 36 Liquidity and Capital Resources 52 Commodity Trends 54 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 55 Critical Accounting Estimates 58 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 61 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: 63 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 63 Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 65 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 66 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 67 Consolidated Statements of Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 68 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 69 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 70 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 122 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 122 Item 9B. Other Information 123 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 123 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 124 Item 11. Executive Compensation 124 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 124 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 124 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 124 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 125 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 129 Signatures 130 In this report, for all periods presented, we, us, our, the Company and Mondel z International refer to Mondel z International, Inc. and subsidiaries. References to Common Stock refer to our Class A Common Stock. Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management, including for future operations, capital expenditures or share repurchases; any statements concerning proposed new products, services, or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of belief or expectation; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing or other future events. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words, and variations of words, will, may, expect, would, could, might, intend, plan, believe, likely, estimate, anticipate, objective, predict, project, drive, seek, aim, target, potential, commitment, outlook, continue or any other similar words. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results or outcomes could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Important factors that could cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from those contained in or implied by our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weakness in macroeconomic conditions in our markets, including as a result of inflation (and related monetary policy actions by governments in response to inflation), instability of certain financial institutions, volatility of commodity and other input costs and availability of commodities; geopolitical uncertainty, including the impact of ongoing or new developments in Ukraine and the Middle East, related current and future sanctions imposed by governments and other authorities and related impacts, including on our business operations, employees, reputation, brands, financial condition and results of operations; competition and our response to channel shifts and pricing and other competitive pressures; pricing actions and customer and consumer responses to such actions; promotion and protection of our reputation and brand image; weakness in consumer spending and/or changes in consumer preferences and demand and our ability to predict, identify, interpret and meet these changes; risks from operating globally, including in emerging markets, such as political, economic and regulatory risks; the outcome and effects on us of legal and tax proceedings and government investigations, including the European Commission legal matter; use of information technology and third party service providers; unanticipated disruptions to our business, such as malware incidents, cyberattacks or other security breaches, and supply, commodity, labor and transportation constraints; our ability to identify, complete, manage and realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions, including our recently completed acquisitions of Ricolino, Clif Bar, Chipita, Gourmet Food, Grenade and Hu; our investments and our ownership interests in those investments, including JDE Peet's; the restructuring program and our other transformation initiatives not yielding the anticipated benefits; changes in the assumptions on which the restructuring program is based; the impact of climate change on our supply chain and operations; global or regional health pandemics or epidemics; consolidation of retail customers and competition with retailer and other economy brands; changes in our relationships with customers, suppliers or distributors; management of our workforce and shifts in labor availability or labor costs; compliance with legal, regulatory, tax and benefit laws and related changes, claims or actions; perceived or actual product quality issues or product recalls; failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures; our ability to protect our intellectual property and intangible assets; tax matters including changes in tax laws and rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes; changes in currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions; 1 Table of Contents volatility of and access to capital or other markets, rising interest rates, the effectiveness of our cash management programs and our liquidity; pension costs; significant changes in valuation factors that may adversely affect our impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets; and the risks and uncertainties, as they may be amended from time to time, set forth in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. There may be other factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider to be immaterial that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make. We disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this report except as required by applicable law or regulation. In addition, historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General Mondel z International s purpose is to empower people to snack right. We sell our products in over 150 countries around the world. We are one of the world s largest snack companies with global net revenues of $36.0 billion and net earnings of $5.0 billion in 2023. Our core business is making and selling chocolate, biscuits and baked snacks. We also have additional businesses in adjacent, locally relevant categories including gum candy, cheese grocery and powdered beverages. Our portfolio includes iconic global and local brands such as Oreo, Ritz, LU, CLIF Bar and Tate s Bake Shop biscuits and baked snacks, as well as Cadbury Dairy Milk, Milka and Toblerone chocolate. We strive to create a positive impact on the world and communities in which we operate while driving business performance. Our goal is to lead the future of snacking around the world by offering the right snack, for the right moment, made the right way. We aim to deliver a broad range of delicious, high-quality snacks that nourish life s moments, made with sustainable ingredients and packaging that consumers can feel good about. We remain committed to helping to drive longstanding, enduring, positive change in the world. Strategy We aim to be the global leader in snacking by focusing on growth, execution, culture and sustainability. We are optimizing our portfolio of leading brands and have refined our strategy to accelerate growth, prioritizing our fast-growing core categories of chocolate, biscuits and baked snacks. Our strategic plan builds on our strong foundations, including leadership in attractive categories, an attractive global footprint, a strong core of iconic global and local brands, marketing, sales, distribution and cost excellence capabilities, and top talent with a growth mindset. Our plan to drive long-term growth includes four strategic priorities: Accelerate consumer-centric growth. Our consumers are the reason we want to be the best snacking company in the world, and we put them at the heart of everything we do. With our consumers in mind, we are focused on accelerating and increasing our focus on chocolate, biscuits and baked snacks by investing in both our global and local brands. We are working to deliver multi-category growth in key geographies, expand our presence in high growth channels and increase our presence in under-represented segments and price tiers. As demands on consumers time increase and consumer eating habits evolve, we aim to meet consumers' snacking needs. We plan to test, learn and scale new product offerings quickly to meet diverse and evolving local and global snacking demand. Drive operational excellence. Our operational excellence and continuous improvement plans include a special focus on the consumer-facing areas of our business and optimizing our sales, marketing and customer service efforts. To drive productivity gains and cost improvements across our business, we also plan to continue leveraging our global shared services platform, driving greater efficiencies in our supply chain informed by a consumer-centric approach and applying strong cost discipline across our operations. We expect the improvements and efficiencies we drive will fuel our growth and continue to expand profit dollars. We are also focused on boosting digital commerce and our digital transformation program that will help to enable consumer demand and sales opportunities. Build a winning growth culture. To support the acceleration of our growth, we are becoming more agile, digital and local-consumer focused. We are committed to investing in a diverse and talented workforce that helps our business move forward with greater speed and agility along with future-forward growth capabilities. We empower our local teams to innovate and deliver consumers snacking needs while continuing to leverage our global scale to efficiently support our growth strategy. We have given our local teams more autonomy to drive commercial and innovation plans as they are closer to the needs and desires of consumers. We will continue to leverage the efficiency and scale of our regional operating units while empowering our local and commercial operations to respond faster to changing consumer preferences and capitalize on growth opportunities. We believe our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion and operating and cultural shifts to continue building a winning growth culture will help drive profitable top-line growth. 3 Table of Contents Scale sustainable snacking . We continue to focus significant efforts to drive progress against our core initiatives for more sustainable and mindful snacking. We have a clear strategic approach to focus on the areas where we believe we can drive the most impact with a sustainable snacking strategy, with environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) goals and initiatives that include significant involvement and oversight by our leadership and Board of Directors. This includes ongoing efforts to sustainably source key ingredients, reduce our end-to-end environmental impact and innovate our processes and packaging to reduce waste and promote recycling. Please see our Sustainability and Mindful Snacking section below. We run our business with a long-term perspective and we believe the successful delivery of our strategic plan will drive consistent top- and bottom-line growth and enable us to create long-term value for our shareholders. Global Operations We sell our products in over 150 countries and have operations in approximately 80 countries, including 148 manufacturing and processing facilities across 46 countries. The portion of our net revenues generated outside the United States was 73.4% in 2023, 73.6% in 2022 and 75.1% in 2021. For more information on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations, refer to Note 18, Segment Reporting; on our manufacturing and other facilities, refer to Item 2, Properties ; and on risks related to our operations outside the United States, see Item 1A, Risk Factors . We also monitor our revenue growth across emerging markets and developed markets: Our emerging markets include our Latin America region in its entirety; the Asia, Middle East and Africa ( AMEA ) region, excluding Australia, New Zealand and Japan; and the following countries from the Europe region: Russia, Ukraine, T rkiye, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, the Baltics and the East Adriatic countries. Our developed markets include the entire North America region, the Europe region excluding the countries included in the emerging markets definition, and Australia, New Zealand and Japan from the AMEA region. Reportable Segments Our operations and management structure are organized into four operating segments: Latin America AMEA Europe North America We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise across our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions. Please see Note 18, Segment Reporting and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Product Categories Our brands span five product categories: Biscuits Baked Snacks (including cookies, crackers, salted snacks, snack bars and cakes pastries) Chocolate Gum candy Beverages Cheese grocery Seasonality Demand for our products is generally balanced throughout the year, with increases in the fourth quarter primarily because of holidays and other seasonal events. Depending on the timing of Easter, the holiday sales may shift between and affect net revenue in the first and second quarter. 4 Table of Contents Customers We generally sell our products to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. We also sell products directly to businesses and consumers through various pure play e-retail platforms, retailer digital platforms, our direct-to-consumer websites and social media platforms. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2023. For a discussion of long-term demographics, consumer trends and demand, refer to our Financial Outlook within Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Distribution and Marketing Our product distribution network encompasses direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers, third party distributors and other facilities. Additionally, we leverage the services of independent sales offices and agents in various international locations. Through our global digital commerce organization and capabilities, we pursue online growth with partners in key markets around the world, including both pure e-tailers and omni-channel retailers. We continue to invest in advertising and consumer promotions, talent and digital capabilities. Our digital commerce channel strategies play a critical role in our ambition to be the global leader in snacking. Our marketing initiatives are categorized in three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing and advertising including digital and social media, on-air, print, outdoor and other product promotions; (ii) consumer sales incentives such as coupons and rebates; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers. Research, Development and Innovation Our innovation and new product development objectives include continuous improvement in food safety and quality, growth through new products, superior consumer satisfaction and reduced production costs. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating consumer demands and adapting quickly to changing market trends. We work to test and learn new ideas and implement successful ones into other areas of our business. We aim to address consumer needs and market trends while leveraging scalable innovation platforms, sustainability and packaging programs and breakthrough technologies in order to delight our consumers, fuel our growth and reduce our environmental impact. To drive growth, creativity, greater effectiveness, improved efficiency and accelerated project delivery, we are focusing our technical research and development resources at technical centers around the globe. Mindful snacking and sustainability are a significant focus of our current research and development initiatives. We work to introduce new varieties of our core products, including new taste or nutrition profiles that cater to evolving consumer preferences, such as the introduction of Toblerone Pralines in a new market segment and a vegan 100% plant-based Philadelphia cream cheese . Additionally, we are expanding our portfolio of cakes and pastries with updated formats including Milka brownies a nd Oreo cakes . We also have a dedicated innovation and venture hub, SnackFutures, specifically tailored to leverage emerging consumer trends and growth opportunities in mindful snacking. The core objectives of this group are aligned with three key strategic areas: invent new brands and businesses, invest in early-stage entrepreneurs, and amplify SnackFutures influence through the CoLab start-up engagement and mentoring programs built to equip start-ups with essential tools, technologies and expertise that can help them learn, grow and succeed. Competition We operate in highly competitive markets that are comprised of global, regional and local competitors, including new start-up brands and businesses. Some competitors have different profit objectives and investment time horizons than we do and therefore may approach pricing and promotional decisions differently. We compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, nutritional value, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of our digital and other sales and marketing strategies, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activities and price. Our advantaged global footprint, operating scale and portfolio of brands have all significantly contributed to building our market-leading positions across most of the product categories in which we sell. To grow and maintain our market positions, we focus on meeting consumer needs and preferences through a local-first commercial focus, new digital and other 5 Table of Contents sales and marketing initiatives, product innovation and high standards of product quality. We also continue to optimize our manufacturing and supply chain networks and invest in our brands through ongoing research and development, advertising, marketing and consumer promotions. Raw Materials and Packaging We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, edible oils, sugar and other sweeteners, flavoring agents and nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. We monitor worldwide supply, commodity cost and currency trends so we can sustainably and cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and fuel required for production. A number of external factors such as the current macroeconomic environment, including global inflation and the effects of geopolitical uncertainty, climate and weather conditions, commodity, transportation and labor market conditions, supply chain disruptions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural or other programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We address higher commodity costs and currency impacts primarily through hedging, higher pricing and manufacturing and overhead cost control. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials; however, we may not be able to fully hedge against commodity cost changes, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. For additional information, refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Commodity Trends . Human Capital We believe the strength of our workforce is one of the significant contributors to our success as a global company that leads with purpose. All our employees contribute to our success and help us drive strong financial performance. Attracting, developing and retaining global talent with the right skills to drive our business is central to our purpose, mission and long-term growth strategy. Workforce Profile : At December 31, 2023, we had approximately 91,000 employees. At December 31, 2023, we had approximately 12,000 U.S. employees and approximately 79,000 employees outside the United States, with employees represented by labor unions or workers councils representing approximately 21% of our U.S. employees and approximately 55% of our employees outside the United States. Workplace Safety and Wellness : We promote a strong culture of safety and prioritize keeping all our employees, contractors and visitors safe. To accomplish this, we employ comprehensive health, safety and environment management policies and standards throughout the organization. In addition, we strive to continuously improve our work processes, tools and metrics to mitigate and prevent workplace injuries and enhance safety. We remain committed to providing a modern and flexible approach to how and where we work. Our hybrid work model allows our office-based employees to engage with colleagues, customers and suppliers in-person on a regular basis while also leveraging innovative technology to optimize collaboration across geographically dispersed teams. Workforce Inclusion Diversity : We believe that a diverse workforce with a range of experiences and perspectives is a significant driver of sustainable innovation and growth. We continue to be focused on creating an inclusive culture for employees, providing equity of opportunity through our development programs and policies. We include diversity and other human capital metrics as a part of the strategic scorecard within our annual incentive plan for our CEO and other senior leaders. This scorecard is used consistently across our company at both the corporate and region level. As a result of these efforts, at the end of 2023, women held 42% of global management roles (defined as Director and above) and 42% of executive leadership roles (defined as the Management Leadership Team plus one level below). In the United States, People of Color held approximately 36% of management roles (defined as Director and above), and Black employees held 6.3% of management roles at the end of 2023. 6 Table of Contents Talent Management and Development: Maintaining a robust pipeline of talent is crucial to our ongoing success and is a key aspect of succession planning efforts across the organization. Our leadership and people teams are responsible for attracting and retaining top talent by facilitating an environment where employees feel supported and encouraged in their professional and personal development. Specifically, we review strategic positions regularly and identify potential internal candidates to fill those roles, evaluating job skill sets to identify competency gaps and creating developmental plans to facilitate employee professional growth. We include metrics related to the rate at which we fill positions with internal talent as part of the strategic scorecard within our annual incentive plan for our CEO and senior leaders, supporting a healthy balance between development of internal talent and infusion of new capabilities to enhance our teams. We invest in our employees through training and development programs, on the job experiences, coaching, as well as tuition reimbursement for a majority of our employees in the United States to promote continued professional growth. We provide technical and leadership programs across the organization that enable colleagues to grow skills and capabilities to become more successful. We also have dedicated talent programs that support and accelerate leadership development and strengthen our succession plans. We also expanded and increased global participation in our Talent Marketplace, a development solution that helps connect employees to short-term gig opportunities. Additionally, coaching, mentoring and team-based development solutions are provided to colleagues across all levels to support leadership, team effectiveness and performance. Culture and Employee Engagement: We believe a culture where employees feel heard and managers take action is key to building a highly-engaged workforce that can deliver sustainable business growth. We conduct confidential engagement surveys of our global workforce annually that are administered and analyzed by an independent third party. Aggregate survey results include external benchmark comparisons and are reviewed by executive officers and the Board of Directors. Based on the results, we create action plans at global, regional, functional and managerial levels. By acting on results both at an aggregate enterprise level and a department/business/work group level, we have been able to enhance our culture and improve our overall engagement. Total Rewards : As part of our total rewards philosophy, we offer competitive compensation and benefits to attract and retain top talent. Our compensation programs are designed to reinforce our growth agenda and talent strategy as well as drive a strong connection between the contributions of our employees and their pay. We believe the structure of our compensation packages provides the appropriate incentives to attract, retain and motivate our employees. Further, to foster a strong sense of ownership and align the interests of employees with shareholders, we grant stock-based incentives to most senior-level employees. We also continue to evolve our programs to meet our employees health and wellness needs. We provide access to medical and welfare benefits and offer programs to all employees that support work-life balance, including paid parental leave, as well as financial, physical and mental health resources, including employee assistance programs to reach all global colleagues. We are committed to equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity or other personal characteristics. To deliver on that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data and consider various factors such as an employee s role and experience, job location and performance. We also regularly review our compensation practices to promote fair and equitable pay. With the support of an independent third-party expert in this field, we conduct global pay equity reviews for salaried employees based on gender and race (as permitted by local country law). Our last global analysis in 2023 encompassed 83 countries and over 34,000 employees. From this analysis, our pay gap between male and female employees was less than 1%. In the United States, we also review pay for salaried employees in the same pay grade by race/ethnicity (Asian, Black and Hispanic). The 2023 independent analysis found no systemic issues and no negative pay gap between non-white and white employees. 7 Table of Contents Sustainability and Mindful Snacking Snacking Made Right is th