Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: 27 Summary of Results 29 Financial Outlook 30 Discussion and Analysis of Historical Results 33 Critical Accounting Estimates 49 Liquidity and Capital Resources 52 Commodity Trends 53 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations 53 Equity and Dividends 55 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 56 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: 65 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 65 Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 68 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 69 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 70 Consolidated Statements of Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 71 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 72 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 73 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 124 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 124 Item 9B. Other Information 125 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 126 Item 11. Executive Compensation 126 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 126 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 126 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 126 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 127 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 132 Signatures 133 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S-1 In this report, for all periods presented, we, us, our, the Company and Mondel z International refer to Mondel z International, Inc. and subsidiaries. References to Common Stock refer to our Class A Common Stock. i Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains a number of forward-looking statements. Words, and variations of words, such as will, may, expect, would, could, might, plan, believe, estimate, anticipate, likely, drive, seek, aim, potential, project, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify our forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements about: our future performance, including our future revenue growth, profitability and earnings; our strategic plan and our plan to accelerate consumer-centric growth, drive operational excellence and create a winning growth culture; our leadership position in snacking; our ability to meet consumer needs and demand and identify innovation and renovation opportunities; the results of driving operational excellence; price volatility and pricing actions; the cost environment and measures to address increased costs; our tax rate, tax positions, transition tax liability and the impact of U.S. and Swiss tax reform on our future results; market share; the United Kingdom s withdrawal from the European Union and its impact on our results, including the consequences of any trade or other cross-border operating agreements, or failure to reach agreements, following the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union; the costs of, timing of expenditures under and completion of our restructuring program; category growth; our effect on demand and our market position; consumer snacking behaviors; commodity prices and supply; investments; research, development and innovation; political and economic conditions and volatility; consumer confidence; the effect of the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or key commodities and potential changes in U.S. trade programs, trade relations, regulations, taxes or fiscal policies; currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions and volatility in foreign currencies; the application of highly inflationary accounting for our Argentinean subsidiaries and the potential for and impacts from currency devaluation in other countries; our e-commerce channel strategies; manufacturing and distribution capacity; changes in laws and regulations, regulatory compliance and related costs; our ownership interest in Keurig Dr Pepper; operating lease liability; the outcome and effects on us of legal proceedings and government investigations; the estimated value of goodwill and intangible assets; amortization expense for intangible assets; impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and our projections of operating results and other factors that may affect our impairment testing; our accounting estimates and judgments and the impact of new accounting pronouncements; pension obligations, expenses, contributions and assumptions; employee benefit plan expenses, obligations and assumptions; compensation expense; our sustainability and mindful snacking strategies, goals and initiatives and the impacts of climate change; the Brazilian indirect tax matter; our liability related to our withdrawal from the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund; the impacts of the malware incident; our ability to prevent and respond to cybersecurity breaches and disruptions; our liquidity, funding sources and uses of funding, including our use of commercial paper; the planned phase out of London Interbank Offered Rates; our risk management program, including the use of financial instruments and the impacts and effectiveness of our hedging activities; working capital; capital expenditures and funding; share repurchases; dividends; long-term value for our shareholders; guarantees; and our contractual obligations. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, risks from operating globally including in emerging markets; changes in currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions; continued volatility of commodity and other input costs; weakness in economic conditions; weakness in consumer spending; pricing actions; tax matters including changes in tax rates and laws, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes; use of information technology and third party service providers; unanticipated disruptions to our business, such as the malware incident, cyberattacks or other security breaches; competition; protection of our reputation and brand image; our ability to innovate and differentiate our products; the restructuring program and our other transformation initiatives not yielding the anticipated benefits; changes in the assumptions on which the restructuring program is based; management of our workforce; consolidation of retail customers and competition with retailer and other economy brands; changes in our relationships with suppliers or customers; legal, regulatory, tax or benefit law changes, claims or actions; the impact of climate change on our supply chain and operations; strategic transactions; significant changes in valuation factors that may adversely affect our impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets; perceived or actual product quality issues or product recalls; failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; volatility of and access to capital or other markets; pension costs; the expected discontinuance of London Interbank Offered Rates and transition to any other interest rate benchmark; and our ability to protect our intellectual property and intangible assets. We disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this report except as required by applicable law or regulation. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General We are one of the world s largest snack companies with global net revenues of $25.9 billion and net earnings of $3.9 billion in 2019 . We make and sell primarily snacks, including biscuits (cookies, crackers and salted snacks), chocolate, gum candy, as well as various cheese grocery and powdered beverage products. We have operations in approximately 80 countries and sell our products in over 150 countries around the world. Our portfolio includes iconic snack brands such as Cadbury, Milka and Toblerone chocolate; Oreo, belVita and LU biscuits ; Halls candy; Trident gum and Tang powdered beverages. We are proud members of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Standard and Poor s 500 and Nasdaq 100. Our Common Stock trades on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol MDLZ. Mondel z International has been incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia since 2000. Strategy We aim to be the global leader in snacking by focusing on growth, execution and culture. In 2019, we began to operate under a new strategic plan that builds on our strong foundations, including our unique portfolio of iconic global and local brands, our attractive global footprint, our market leadership in developed and emerging markets, our deep innovation, marketing and distribution capabilities, and our margin expansion in recent years that allows us to make ongoing investments in our product portfolio. Our plan to drive long-term growth includes three strategic priorities: accelerating consumer-centric growth, driving operational excellence and creating a winning growth culture. Accelerate consumer-centric growth. As demands on consumers time increase and consumer eating habits evolve, we aim to meet consumers' snacking needs by providing the right snack, for the right moment, made the right way. We have developed innovative approaches to identify and address how consumers snack across different emotional and functional needs and occasions that we believe will allow us to meet their needs and identify new innovation and renovation opportunities. We plan to test, learn and scale new product offerings quickly to meet diverse and evolving local and global snacking demand. We believe our understanding of consumers behavior will continue to lead to our meeting more of their needs and the growing demand for snacks. Drive operational excellence. Our operational excellence and continuous improvement plans include a special focus on the consumer-facing areas of our business and optimizing our sales, marketing and customer service efforts. To drive productivity gains and cost improvements across our business, we also plan to continue leveraging our global shared services platform, driving greater efficiencies in our supply chain and continuing to utilize Zero-Based Budgeting across our operations. We expect the improvements and efficiencies we drive will fuel our growth and continue to expand profit dollars. At the same time, we are continuing our efforts to sustainably source key ingredients, reduce our end-to-end environmental impact and innovate our processes and packaging to reduce waste and promote recycling. Build a winning growth culture. To support the acceleration of our growth, we are becoming more agile, digital and local-consumer focused. We are giving our local teams more autonomy to drive commercial and innovation plans as they are closer to the needs and desires of consumers. We will continue to leverage the efficiency and scale of our regional operating units while empowering our local commercial operations to respond faster to changing consumer preferences and capitalize on growth opportunities. Our digital transformation program will also help to enable consumer demand and sales opportunities. We believe these operating and cultural shifts will help drive profitable top-line growth. We run our business with a long-term perspective, and we believe the successful delivery of our strategic plan will drive top- and bottom-line growth and enable us to create long-term value for our shareholders. 2 Table of Contents Operating Segments Our operations and management structure are organized into four operating segments: Latin America Asia, Middle East and Africa ( AMEA ) Europe North America We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise across our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions. We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze segment performance and trends. For a definition and reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated pre-tax earnings as well as other information on our segments, see Note 18, Segment Reporting . Our segment net revenues for each of the last three years were: For the Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) Net revenues: Latin America $ 3,018 $ 3,202 $ 3,566 AMEA 5,770 5,729 5,739 Europe 9,972 10,122 9,794 North America 7,108 6,885 6,797 $ 25,868 $ 25,938 $ 25,896 Our segment operating income for each of the last three years was: For the Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions, except percentages) Segment operating income: Latin America $ 341 8.1 % $ 410 11.1 % $ 564 14.7 % AMEA 691 16.4 % 702 19.0 % 514 13.4 % Europe 1,732 41.1 % 1,734 46.9 % 1,610 42.0 % North America 1,451 34.4 % 849 23.0 % 1,144 29.9 % $ 4,215 100.0 % $ 3,695 100.0 % $ 3,832 100.0 % Please see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for items affecting the comparability of results and a review of our operating results. Our brands span five product categories: Biscuits (including cookies, crackers and salted snacks) Chocolate Gum candy Beverages Cheese grocery 3 Table of Contents During 2019 , our segments contributed to our net revenues in the following product categories: Percentage of 2019 Net Revenues by Product Category Segment Biscuits Chocolate Gum Candy Beverages Cheese Grocery Total Latin America 2.7 % 2.7 % 3.2 % 1.7 % 1.3 % 11.6 % AMEA 7.1 % 8.0 % 3.3 % 2.1 % 1.7 % 22.2 % Europe 11.6 % 19.8 % 2.7 % 0.4 % 4.1 % 38.6 % North America 22.8 % 1.0 % 3.8 % % % 27.6 % 44.2 % 31.5 % 13.0 % 4.2 % 7.1 % 100.0 % Within our product categories, classes of products that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues were: For the Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Biscuits - Cookies, crackers and other 37 % 36 % 36 % Chocolate - Tablets, bars and other 32 % 32 % 31 % Divestitures and Acquisitions For information on divestitures and acquisitions that impacted our results, please refer to Note 2, Divestitures and Acquisitions . Customers No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2019 . Our five largest customers accounted for 17.0% and our ten largest customers accounted for 23.2% of net revenues from continuing operations in 2019 . Seasonality Demand for our products is generally balanced over the second and third quarters of the year and increases in the first and fourth quarters primarily because of holidays and other seasonal events. Depending on when Easter falls, Easter holiday sales may shift between the first and second quarter. We build inventory based on expected demand and typically fill customer orders within a few days of receipt so the backlog of unfilled orders is not material. Funding for working capital items, including inventory and receivables, is normally sourced from operating cash flows and short-term commercial paper borrowings. For additional information on our liquidity, working capital management, cash flow and financing activities, see Liquidity and Capital Resources , Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , and Note 9, Debt and Borrowing Arrangements , appearing later in this 10-K filing. Competition We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large multinational as well as numerous local and regional companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives and investment time horizons than we do and therefore approach pricing and promotional decisions differently. We compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, nutritional value, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of digital and other sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. Improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial research, development, advertising and promotional expenditures. We believe these investments lead to better products for the consumer and support our growth and market position. Distribution and Marketing We generally sell our products to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. We distribute our products through direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities. We use the services of independent sales offices and agents in some of our international locations. 4 Table of Contents Through our global e-commerce organization and capabilities, we pursue online growth with partners in key markets around the world, including both pure e-tailers and brick-and-mortar retailers. We continue to invest in both talent and digital capabilities. Our e-commerce channel strategies will play a critical role in our ambition to be the best snacking company in the world. We conduct marketing efforts through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing and advertising including on-air, print, outdoor, digital and social media and other product promotions; (ii) consumer sales incentives such as coupons and rebates; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers. Raw Materials and Packaging We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, palm and other vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, flavoring agents and nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. We monitor worldwide supply, commodity cost and currency trends so we can sustainably and cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and fuel required for production. A number of external factors such as changing weather patterns and conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural or other programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We address higher commodity costs and currency impacts primarily through hedging, higher pricing and manufacturing and overhead cost control. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials; however, we may not be able to fully hedge against commodity cost changes, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. Due to factors noted above, the costs of our principal raw materials fluctuate. At this time, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources. However, we continue to monitor the long-term impacts of climate change and related factors that could affect the availability or cost of raw materials, packaging and energy. For additional information on our commodity costs, refer to the Commodity Trends section within Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . For information on our ongoing sustainability efforts and programs, refer to Sustainability and Well-Being below. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property rights (including trademarks, patents, copyrights, registered designs, proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how) are material to our business. We own numerous trademarks and patents in many countries around the world. Depending on the country, trademarks remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. We also have patents for a number of current and potential products. Our patents cover inventions ranging from packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use one or more of our trademarks, patents and/or proprietary trade secrets in connection with the manufacture, sale or distribution of third party products. Similarly, we sell some products under brands, patents and/or proprietary trade secrets we license from third parties. In our agreement with Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (which is now part of The Kraft Heinz Company), we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions following the spin-off of our North American grocery business. 5 Table of Contents Research and Development We pursue four objectives in research and development: food safety and quality, growth through new products, superior consumer satisfaction and reduced production costs. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating consumer demands and adapting quickly to changing market trends. Well-being and sustainability are a significant focus of our current research and development initiatives. These initiatives aim to accelerate our growth and margins by addressing consumer needs and market trends and leveraging scalable innovation platforms, sustainability programs and initiatives as well as breakthrough technologies. In 2019, we completed a $65 million plan to build out and modernize our network of global research and development facilities. We modernized our technical center facilities at Suzhou, China; Jurong, Singapore and Thane, India in 2018. In 2019, we also completed the modernization of technical centers in Curitiba, Brazil and Mexico City, Mexico. In addition, we have invested in the Pasuruan Cocoa Technology Centre in Indonesia, which is scheduled to fully open in 2020. We are focusing our technical resources at twelve key locations to drive growth and innovation. Our network of technical centers enable greater effectiveness, improved efficiency and accelerated project delivery. These locations are in Curitiba, Brazil; Suzhou, China; Thane, India; Pasuruan, Indonesia; Mexico City, Mexico; East Hanover, New Jersey; Wroclaw, Poland; Jurong, Singapore; Bournville, United Kingdom; Reading, United Kingdom; Saclay, France and Munich, Germany. At December 31, 2019 , within our global research, development quality services area, we had approximately 2,400 scientists, engineers and other personnel, of which 1,900 are primarily focused on research and development and the remainder are primarily focused on quality assurance and regulatory affairs. Our research and development expense was $351 million in 2019 , $362 million in 2018 and $366 million in 2017 . Regulation Our food products and ingredients are subject to local, national and multinational regulations related to labeling, health and nutrition claims, packaging, pricing, marketing and advertising, data privacy and related areas. In addition, various jurisdictions regulate our operations by licensing and inspecting our manufacturing plants and facilities, enforcing standards for select food products, grading food products, and regulating trade practices related to the sale and pricing of our food products. Many of the food commodities we use in our operations are subject to government agricultural policy and intervention. These policies have substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to periodic governmental and administrative review. In addition, increased attention to environmental issues in industry supply chains has led to developing different types of regulation in many countries. The lack of a harmonized approach can lead to uneven scrutiny or enforcement, which can impact our operations. Examples of laws and regulations that affect our business include selective food taxes, labeling requirements such as front-of-pack labeling and nutrient profiling, media and marketing restrictions such as restrictions on advertising products with specified nutrition profiles on certain channels or platforms or during certain hours of the day, potential withdrawal of trade concessions as dispute settlement retaliation, sanctions on sales or sourcing of raw materials, and extended producer responsibility fees and packaging taxes. We will continue to monitor developments in laws and regulations. At this time, we do not expect the cost of complying with existing laws and regulations will be material. Also refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting , for additional information on government regulations and currency-related impacts on our operations in the United Kingdom, Argentina and other countries. Environmental Regulation Throughout the countries in which we do business, we are subject to local, national and multinational environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We have programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. In the United States, the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. We track regulatory developments in various jurisdictions relating to the use of plastic in packaging materials and taxes linked to the costs of waste so that we can comply with evolving requirements. We believe that our compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our financial results. 6 Table of Contents Sustainability and Well-Being Our 2025 sustainable snacking strategy provides a clear roadmap, which we believe puts us at the forefront of sustainable ingredient sourcing and continuing to contribute to addressing climate change by reducing emissions. We are focused on making our snacks with less energy, water and waste, with ingredients consumers know and trust. We have specific goals to which we hold ourselves accountable, and we are continuing to make progress in our efforts to deliver meaningful change. We are proud of the progress we achieved to date and excited about where we are going. By living our purpose to empower people to snack right, we believe we can continue to have a positive impact on the lives of our consumers and the world around us. We have been focused on sustainability for many years and we continue to enhance and evolve our sustainability goals and reporting. We will issue our 2019 Snacking Made Right report, which will include our progress toward our sustainability goals, later this year. Our 2025 sustainability and mindful snacking goals include: Minimizing food waste, end-to-end CO 2 emissions and priority water usage by 2025 Making all packaging recyclable by 2025 to further reduce our environmental footprint Scaling our Cocoa Life sustainability program even further so that by 2025, Cocoa Life will produce 100% of the cocoa volume we require for our chocolate brands Growing portion control products to 20 percent of snacks net revenue by 2025 Including portion amounts and mindful snacking information on all packages globally by 2025 Our 2025 sustainability goals are designed to make a meaningful impact on how we address climate change and are based on an end-to-end, science-based approach to reducing our carbon footprint, including reducing our absolute CO 2 emissions from manufacturing and addressing deforestation in key raw material supply chains. We are also working to cut our absolute water footprint in manufacturing, focusing on priority sites where water is most scarce. We continue to work on reducing waste in manufacturing and packaging. In ingredient sourcing, we continue to leverage our global operating scale to secure sustainable raw materials and work with suppliers to drive meaningful social and environmental changes, focusing where we can make the greatest impact. For example, we launched our Cocoa Life program in 2012 and are investing up to $400 million through 2022 to build a sustainable cocoa supply. We are also improving sustainability in our wheat supply by working with farmers in North America and through our Harmony program in Europe. We are focused on consumer well-being. Our mindful snacking strategy aligns w