Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Reserved 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: 31 Recent Developments and Significant Items Affecting Comparability 31 Summary of Results 35 Financial Outlook 36 Discussion and Analysis of Historical Results 40 Critical Accounting Estimates 57 Liquidity and Capital Resources 60 Commodity Trends 62 Equity and Dividends 62 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 64 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 71 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: 73 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 73 Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 76 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 77 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 78 Consolidated Statements of Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 79 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 80 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 81 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 130 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 130 Item 9B. Other Information 131 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 131 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 132 Item 11. Executive Compensation 132 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 132 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 132 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 132 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 133 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 137 Signatures 138 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S- 1 In this report, for all periods presented, we, us, our, the Company and Mondel z International refer to Mondel z International, Inc. and subsidiaries. References to Common Stock refer to our Class A Common Stock. i Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains a number of forward-looking statements. Words, and variations of words, such as will, may, expect, would, could, might, plan, believe, estimate, anticipate, intend, likely, drive, seek, aim, potential, project, objective, target, commitment, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify our forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements about: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related disruptions on our business including consumer demand, costs, product mix, the availability of and our ability to deliver our products, our strategic initiatives, our and our partners global supply chains, operations, technology, assets and routes to market, and our financial performance; our future performance, including our future revenue growth, profitability and earnings growth; our strategy to accelerate consumer-centric growth, drive operational excellence and create a winning growth culture; our leadership position in snacking; our ability to meet consumer needs and demand and identify innovation and renovation opportunities; operational improvements and efficiencies; volatility in global consumer, commodity, transportation, labor, currency and capital markets; price volatility, inflation and pricing actions; the cost environment, including higher operating, raw material, transportation, labor and fuel costs, factors affecting costs and measures we are taking to address increased costs; supply, transportation and labor disruptions and constraints; consumer behavior, mobility and consumption and demand trends and our business in developed and emerging markets, our channels, our brands and our categories; our tax rate, tax positions, tax proceedings, tax estimates, valuation allowances and the impact on us of potential U.S. and global tax reform; market share and our market position; the separation of the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) from the European Union ( E.U. ) and its impact on our business and results, including in connection with disagreements on trade terms, delays affecting our supply chain or distribution, disruptions to sales or collections, or further increases in inflationary cost pressures; advertising and promotion bans and restrictions in the U.K.; the costs of, timing of expenditures under and completion of our restructuring program; category growth; consumer snacking behaviors; commodity prices, supply and availability; our investments and the results and potential of those investments, including our investments in JDE Peet's and KDP; research, development and innovation; our digital transformation program; political, business and economic conditions and volatility; the effect of the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or key commodities and potential changes in U.S. trade programs, trade relations, regulations, taxes or fiscal policies; currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions, volatility in foreign currencies and the effect of currency translation on our results of operations; the application of highly inflationary accounting for our Argentinean subsidiaries and the potential for and impacts from currency devaluation in other countries; our digital commerce channel strategies; manufacturing and distribution capacity; changes in laws and regulations, regulatory compliance and related costs; the outcome and effects on us of legal proceedings and government investigations; the estimated value of goodwill and intangible assets; amortization expense for intangible assets; impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and our projections of operating results and other factors that may affect our impairment testing; our accounting estimates and judgments and the impact of new accounting pronouncements; pension obligations, expenses, contributions and assumptions; employee benefit plan expenses, obligations and assumptions; compensation expense; human capital matters; our goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions; our other environmental, social and governance strategies, goals, targets and initiatives and the impacts of climate change; our efforts to become a more sustainable snacking company; our ability to prevent and respond to cybersecurity breaches and disruptions; our liquidity, funding sources and uses of funding, including debt issuances and our use of commercial paper; our capital structure, credit availability and our ability to raise capital, and the impact of market disruptions on us, our counterparties and our business partners; the planned phase out of London Interbank Offered Rates; our risk management program, including the use of financial instruments and the impacts and effectiveness of our hedging activities; working capital; capital expenditures and funding; funding of debt maturities and other obligations; share repurchases; dividends; long-term value for our shareholders; guarantees; compliance with our debt covenants; and our contractual and other obligations. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and many of these risks and uncertainties are currently amplified by and may continue to be amplified by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the spread of new variants of COVID-19 such as Omicron. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, uncertainty about the effectiveness of efforts by health officials and governments to control the spread of COVID-19 and inoculate and treat populations impacted by COVID-19; uncertainty about the reimposition or lessening of restrictions imposed by governments intended to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and the magnitude, duration, geographic reach and impact on the global economy of COVID-19; the ongoing, and uncertain future, impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results (including components of our financial results), cash flows and liquidity; risks from operating globally including in emerging markets; changes in currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions; volatility of 1 Table of Contents commodity and other input costs and availability of commodities; weakness in economic conditions; weakness in consumer spending; pricing actions; tax matters including changes in tax laws and rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes; use of information technology and third party service providers; unanticipated disruptions to our business, such as the 2017 malware incident, cyberattacks or other security breaches; global or regional health pandemics or epidemics, including COVID-19; competition and our response to channel shifts and pricing and other competitive pressures; promotion and protection of our reputation and brand image; changes in consumer preferences and demand and our ability to innovate and differentiate our products; the restructuring program and our other transformation initiatives not yielding the anticipated benefits; changes in the assumptions on which the restructuring program is based; management of our workforce and shifts in labor availability; consolidation of retail customers and competition with retailer and other economy brands; changes in our relationships with customers, suppliers or distributors; compliance with legal, regulatory, tax and benefit laws and related changes, claims or actions; the impact of climate change on our supply chain and operations; strategic transactions; significant changes in valuation factors that may adversely affect our impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets; perceived or actual product quality issues or product recalls; failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures; volatility of and access to capital or other markets, the effectiveness of our cash management programs and our liquidity; pension costs; the expected discontinuance of London Interbank Offered Rates and transition to any other interest rate benchmark; and our ability to protect our intellectual property and intangible assets. We disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this report except as required by applicable law or regulation. In addition, historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General Mondel z International s purpose is to empower people to snack right. We sell our products in over 150 countries around the world. We are one of the world s largest snack companies with global net revenues of $28.7 billion and net earnings of $4.3 billion in 2021. We make and sell primarily snacks, including biscuits (cookies, crackers and salted snacks), chocolate, gum candy, as well as various cheese grocery and powdered beverage products. Our portfolio includes snack brands such as Cadbury, Milka and Toblerone chocolate; Oreo, belVita and LU biscuits ; Halls candy; Trident gum and Tang powdered beverages. We strive to create a positive impact on the world and communities in which we operate while driving business performance. Our goal is to lead the future of snacking around the world by offering the right snack, for the right moment, made the right way. We aim to deliver a broad range of delicious, high-quality snacks that nourish life s moments, made with sustainable ingredients and packaging that consumers can feel good about. We remain committed to driving longstanding and enduring positive change in the world. Mondel z International at a Glance Strategy We aim to be the global leader in snacking by focusing on growth, execution and culture. Our strategic plan builds on our strong foundations, including our unique portfolio of iconic global and local brands, our attractive global footprint, our market leadership in developed and emerging markets, our deep innovation, marketing and distribution capabilities, and our profit dollar expansion in recent years that allows us to make ongoing investments in our brands and capabilities. Our plan to drive long-term growth includes three strategic priorities: Accelerate consumer-centric growth. Our consumers are the reason we want to be the best snacking company in the world, and we put them at the heart of everything we do. With our consumers in mind, we are focused on accelerating growth by investing in both our global and local brands. We are working to implement innovative ideas and programs, drive growth in new channels, and build and develop new and existing partnerships that serve our consumers. As demands on consumers time increase and consumer eating habits evolve, we aim to meet consumers' snacking needs. We plan to test, learn and scale new product offerings quickly to meet diverse and evolving local and global snacking demand. Drive operational excellence. Our operational excellence and continuous improvement plans include a special focus on the consumer-facing areas of our business and optimizing our sales, marketing and customer service efforts. To drive productivity gains and cost improvements across our business, we also 3 Table of Contents plan to continue leveraging our global shared services platform, driving greater efficiencies in our supply chain and applying strong cost discipline across our operations. We expect the improvements and efficiencies we drive will fuel our growth and continue to expand profit dollars. At the same time, we are continuing our efforts to sustainably source key ingredients, reduce our end-to-end environmental impact and innovate our processes and packaging to reduce waste and promote recycling. Build a winning growth culture. To support the acceleration of our growth, we are becoming more agile, digital and local-consumer focused. We are committed to investing in a diverse and talented workforce that helps our business move forward with greater speed and agility. We empower our local teams to innovate and deliver consumers snacking needs while continuing to leverage our global scale to efficiently support our growth strategy. We have given our local teams more autonomy to drive commercial and innovation plans as they are closer to the needs and desires of consumers. We will continue to leverage the efficiency and scale of our regional operating units while empowering our local and commercial operations to respond faster to changing consumer preferences and capitalize on growth opportunities. Our digital transformation program will also help to enable consumer demand and sales opportunities. We believe our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion and operating and cultural shifts to continue building a winning growth culture will help drive profitable top-line growth. We run our business with a long-term perspective, and we believe the successful delivery of our strategic plan will drive top- and bottom-line growth and enable us to create long-term value for our shareholders. In addition, we also continue to focus significant efforts to drive progress against our core initiatives for more sustainable and mindful snacking. For the last several years, we have been following the principles of the Science Based Targets initiative ( SBTi ) as we continued to measure our greenhouse gas footprint, worked to reduce our emissions and accelerated our existing sustainability initiatives to become a more sustainable snacking company. In November 2021, we set a goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our full value chain (including Scope 1 through 3 greenhouse gas emissions) by 2050. We have signed the SBTi s Business Ambition for 1.5 C , aligning our long-term emissions mitigation goals with the aim of limiting temperature rise in accordance with the Paris Agreement, the 2015 international treaty on climate change. We also joined the United Nations Race to Zero campaign to help build momentum toward a decarbonized economy. These goals are a strategic priority and help guide us as we continue our sustainability work to drive lasting progress at scale and create long-term value for the business and our stakeholders. We continue to report on our progress in our annual Snacking Made Right report, where we discuss our performance against our environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) goals and initiatives. Please also see our Sustainability and Mindful Snacking section below. In 2020 and 2021, while the COVID-19 pandemic significantly affected economies, marketplaces, communities and businesses around the world, including ours, we prioritized our employees, customers and communities and largely continued to execute against our strategic priorities. In this way, we positioned ourselves to emerge stronger. Please refer to our COVID-19 discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. Global Operations We sell our products in over 150 countries and have operations in approximately 80 countries, including 131 manufacturing and processing facilities across 45 countries. The portion of our net revenues generated outside the United States was 75.1% in 2021, 73.2% in 2020 and 74.4% in 2019. For more information on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations, refer to Note 18, Segment Reporting; on our manufacturing and other facilities, refer to Item 2, Properties ; and risks related to our operations outside the United States, see Item 1A, Risk Factors . We also monitor our revenue growth across emerging markets and developed markets Our emerging markets include our Latin America region in its entirety; the Asia, Middle East and Africa ( AMEA ) region, excluding Australia, New Zealand and Japan; and the following countries from the Europe region: Russia, Ukraine, T rkiye, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, the Baltics and the East Adriatic countries. Our developed markets include the entire North America region, the Europe region excluding the countries included in the emerging markets definition, and Australia, New Zealand and Japan from the AMEA region. 4 Table of Contents Operating Segments Our operations and management structure are organized into four operating segments: Latin America AMEA Europe North America We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise across our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions. We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze segment performance and trends. For a definition and reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated pre-tax earnings as well as other information on our segments, see Note 18, Segment Reporting . Our segment net revenues for each of the last three years were: For the Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in millions) Net revenues: Latin America $ 2,797 $ 2,477 $ 3,018 AMEA 6,465 5,740 5,770 Europe 11,156 10,207 9,972 North America 8,302 8,157 7,108 $ 28,720 $ 26,581 $ 25,868 Our segment operating income for each of the last three years was: For the Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in millions, except percentages) Segment operating income: Latin America $ 261 5.5 % $ 189 4.3 % $ 341 8.1 % AMEA 1,054 22.0 % 821 18.8 % 691 16.4 % Europe 2,092 43.8 % 1,775 40.6 % 1,732 41.1 % North America 1,371 28.7 % 1,587 36.3 % 1,451 34.4 % $ 4,778 100.0 % $ 4,372 100.0 % $ 4,215 100.0 % Please see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for items affecting the comparability of results and a review of our operating results. Product Categories Our brands span five product categories: Biscuits (including cookies, crackers and salted snacks) Chocolate Gum candy Beverages Cheese grocery 5 Table of Contents During 2021, our segments contributed to our net revenues in the following product categories: Percentage of 2021 Net Revenues by Product Category Segment Biscuits Chocolate Gum Candy Beverages Cheese Grocery Total Latin America 2.8 % 2.6 % 2.0 % 1.3 % 1.1 % 9.8 % AMEA 7.8 % 8.3 % 2.8 % 1.9 % 1.7 % 22.5 % Europe 11.6 % 20.4 % 2.1 % 0.4 % 4.3 % 38.8 % North America 24.9 % 1.0 % 3.0 % % % 28.9 % 47.1 % 32.3 % 9.9 % 3.6 % 7.1 % 100.0 % Within our product categories, classes of products that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues were: For the Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Biscuits - Cookies and crackers 37 % 39 % 37 % Chocolate - Tablets, bars and other 32 % 31 % 32 % Seasonality Demand for our products is generally balanced over the second and third quarters of the year and increases in the first and fourth quarters primarily because of holidays and other seasonal events. Depending on the timing of Easter, the holiday sales may shift between and affect net revenue in the first and second quarter. Customers We generally sell our products to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. We also sell products directly to businesses and consumers through various pure play e-retail platforms, retailer digital platforms, our Direct to Consumer websites and social media platforms. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2021. Our five largest customers accounted for 16.7% and our ten largest customers accounted for 23.0% of net revenues from continuing operations in 2021. For a discussion of long-term demographics, consumer trends and demand, refer to our Financial Outlook within Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Distribution and Marketing We distribute our products through direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers, third party distributors and other facilities. We use the services of independent sales offices and agents in some of our international locations. Through our global digital commerce organization and capabilities, we pursue online growth with partners in key markets around the world, including both pure e-tailers and omni-channel retailers. We continue to invest in advertising and consumer promotions, talent and digital capabilities. Our digital commerce channel strategies play a critical role in our ambition to be the global leader in snacking. We conduct marketing efforts through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing and advertising including digital and social media, on-air, print, outdoor and other product promotions; (ii) consumer sales incentives such as coupons and rebates; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers. 6 Table of Contents Research, Development and Innovation We work to understand consumer needs and deliver snacks with consistent quality and taste. We continue to invest in a global network of technical centers to research and support our growth while continuing to innovate our processes. Our innovation and new product development objectives include continuous improvement in food safety and quality, growth through new products, superior consumer satisfaction and reduced production costs. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating consumer demands and adapting quickly to changing market trends. We work to test-and-learn new ideas and implement successful ones into other areas of our business. Mindful snacking and sustainability are a significant focus of our current research and development initiatives. We work to introduce new varieties of our core products, including new taste or nutrition profiles based on consumer preferences, such as Cadbury Dairy Milk chocolate bars with 30% less sugar, Sugar-free Oreos and the Cadbury Plant Bar , a vegan (100% plant-based) sustainably-sourced cocoa chocolate bar wrapped in plant-based packaging. We aim to address consumer needs and market trends and leverage scalable innovation platforms, sustainability programs and breakthrough technologies in order to delight our consumers and fuel our growth. We are focusing our technical research and development resources at 12 technical centers around the globe to drive growth, creativity, greater effectiveness, improved efficiency and accelerated project delivery. We also have a dedicated innovation and venture hub, SnackFutures, which is designed to capitalize on consumer trends and emerging growth opportunities in well-being snacks. The group s priorities support incremental growth against three key strategic areas: invent new brands and businesses, invest in early stage entrepreneurs, and amplify SnackFutures impact with the CoLab start-up engagement program built to provide start-ups with tools, technologies and expertise that can help them learn, grow and succeed. Competition We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large multinational as well as numerous local and regional companies, including new start-up brands and businesses. Some competitors have different profit objectives and investment time horizons than we do and therefore may approach pricing and promotional decisions differently. We compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, nutritional value, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of digital and other sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. Growing our market share or introducing a new product requires substantial research, development, advertising and promotional expenditures. We believe these investments lead to better products and stronger brands for the consumer and support our growth and market position. Raw Materials and Packaging We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, palm and other vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, flavoring agents and nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. We monitor worldwide supply, commodity cost and currency trends so we can sustainably and cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and fuel required for production. A number of external factors such as changing weather patterns and conditions, commodity market conditions, effects from the current COVID-19 global pandemic, supply chain disruptions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural or other programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We address higher commodity costs and currency impacts primarily through hedging, higher pricing and manufacturing and overhead cost control. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials; however, we may not be able to fully hedge against commodity cost changes, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. Due to factors noted above, the costs of our principal raw materials can fluctuate. During late 2021 in particular, commodity costs have primarily increased due to recent supply chain disruptions. We expect commodity cost volatility to continue, and our commodity hedging activities cannot fully offset this volatility. Despite the recent and expected supply chain, transportation and labor disruptions, at this time, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available. However, we continue to monitor the near-term and long-term impacts of the pandemic, supply chain disruptions, climate change and related factors that could affect the availability or cost of raw materials, packaging and energy. For additional information, 7 Table of Contents refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Commodity Trends . For information on our ongoing sustainability efforts and programs, refer to Sustainability and Mindful Snacking below. Human Capital We believe the strength of our workforce is one of the significant contributors to our success as a global company that leads with purpose. All our employees contribute to our success and help us drive strong financial performance. Attracting, developing and retaining global talent with the right skills to drive our business is central to our purpose, mission and long-term growth strategy. Workforce Profile : Consistent with 2020, at December 31, 2021, we had approximately 79,000 employees. At December 31, 2021, we had approximately 11,000 U.S. employees and approximately 68,000 employees outside the United States, with employees represented by labor unions or workers councils representing approximately 28% of our U.S. employees and approximately 61% of ou