Item 1. Business and Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as those related to: the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions of businesses, communities and governments in response; competition in the medical device industry; reduction or interruption in our supply; laws and governmental regulations; quality problems; liquidity shortfalls; decreasing prices and pricing pressure; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes in applicable tax rates; 1 Table of Contents positions taken by taxing authorities; adverse regulatory action; delays in regulatory approvals; litigation results; self-insurance; commercial insurance; healthcare policy changes; international operations; cybersecurity incidents; failure to complete or achieve the intended benefits of acquisitions or divestitures; or disruption of our current plans and operations. Consequently, no forward-looking statement may be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We intend to take advantage of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding our forward-looking statements, and are including this sentence for the express purpose of enabling us to use the protections of the safe harbor with respect to all forward-looking statements. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, whether as a result of any new information, future events, or otherwise, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Medtronic plc, headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, is among the world's largest medical technology, services, and solutions companies - alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world. Medtronic was founded in 1949 and today serves hospitals, physicians, clinicians, and patients in more than 150 countries worldwide. We remain committed to a mission written by our founder in 1960 that directs us to contribute to human welfare by the application of biomedical engineering in the research, design, manufacture, and sale of products to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life. With innovation and market leadership, we have pioneered advances in medical technology. Our commitment to enhance our offerings by developing and acquiring new products, wrap-around programs, and solutions to meet the needs of a broader set of stakeholders is driven by the following primary strategies: Therapy Innovation: Delivering a strong launch cadence of meaningful therapies and procedures. Globalization: Addressing the inequity in healthcare access globally, primarily in emerging markets. Economic Value: Becoming a leader in value-based healthcare by offering new services and solutions to improve outcomes and efficiencies, lower costs by reducing hospitalizations, improve remote clinical management, and increase patient engagement. Our primary customers include hospitals, clinics, third-party healthcare providers, distributors, and other institutions, including governmental healthcare programs and group purchasing organizations (GPOs). Medtronic plc is the successor to Medtronic, Inc., a Minnesota corporation. Medtronic, Inc. and Covidien plc (Covidien) were combined under and became subsidiaries of Medtronic plc on January 26, 2015. On July 29, 2017, we completed the divestiture of our Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses (the Divestiture). Among the product lines included in the divestiture were the dental and animal health, chart paper, wound care, incontinence, electrodes, SharpSafety, thermometry, perinatal protection, blood collection, compression, and enteral feeding offerings. Prior to the divestiture, these businesses were included within the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group segment. We have four operating and reportable segments that primarily develop, manufacture, distribute, and sell device-based medical therapies and services: the Cardiac and Vascular Group, the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group, the Restorative Therapies Group, and the Diabetes Group. For more information regarding our segments, please see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents CARDIAC AND VASCULAR GROUP The Cardiac and Vascular Group is made up of the Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure, Coronary Structural Heart, and Aortic, Peripheral Venous divisions. The primary medical specialists who use our Cardiac and Vascular products include electrophysiologists, implanting cardiologists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular, cardiothoracic, and vascular surgeons, and interventional cardiologists and radiologists. Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure Our Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure division develops, manufactures, and markets products for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of heart rhythm disorders and heart failure. Our products include implantable devices, leads and delivery systems, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF), products designed to reduce surgical site infections, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure devices, ventricular assist systems, and an integrated health solutions business. Principal products and services offered include: Implantable cardiac pacemakers including the Azure MRI SureScan, Adapta, Advisa MRI SureScan, Micra Transcatheter Pacing System, which is leadless and does not have a subcutaneous device pocket like a conventional pacemaker, and Micra AV, which can treat patients with atrioventricular block. Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), including the Visia AF, Evera MRI SureScan, and the Cobalt and Chrome portfolio of BlueSync-enabled ICDs, as well as defibrillator leads, including the Sprint Quattro Secure lead. Implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (CRT-Ds and CRT-Ps) including the Claria/Amplia/Compia family of MRI Quad CRT-D SureScan systems and the Cobalt and Chrome portfolio of BlueSync-enabled CRT-Ds, as well as the Percepta/Serena/Solara family of MRI Quad CRT-P SureScan systems. AF ablation products including the Arctic Front Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter System, designed for pulmonary vein isolation in the treatment of patients with drug refractory paroxysmal AF. Insertable cardiac monitoring systems including the Reveal LINQ, which is used to record the heart s electrical activity before, during, and after transient symptoms such as syncope (i.e. fainting) and palpitations to assist in diagnosis. Mechanical circulatory support products including miniaturized implantable heart pumps, or ventricular assist devices, patient accessories and surgical tools to treat patients suffering from advanced heart failure. TYRX products including the Cardiac and Neuro Absorbable Antibacterial Envelopes, which are designed to stabilize electronic implantable devices and help prevent infection associated with implantable pacemakers, and defibrillators. Remote monitoring services and patient-centered software to enable efficient care coordination and specialized telehealth nurse support as well as services related to hospital operational efficiency. Coronary Structural Heart Our Coronary Structural Heart division includes therapies to treat coronary artery disease and heart valve disorders. Our products include coronary stents and related delivery systems, including a broad line of balloon angioplasty catheters, guide catheters, guide wires, diagnostic catheters, and accessories, as well as products for the repair and replacement of heart valves, perfusion systems, positioning and stabilization systems for beating heart revascularization surgery, and surgical ablation products. Principal products offered include: CoreValve family of aortic valves, including the Evolut R, Evolut PRO, and Evolut PRO+ systems for transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Percutaneous Coronary Intervention stent products including our Resolute Onyx drug-eluting stent. 4 Table of Contents Surgical valve replacement and repair products for damaged or diseased heart valves, including both tissue and mechanical valves, blood-handling products that form a circulatory support system to maintain and monitor blood circulation and coagulation status, oxygen supply, and body temperature during arrested heart surgery, and surgical ablation systems and positioning and stabilization technologies. Aortic, Peripheral Venous Our Aortic, Peripheral Venous division is comprised of a comprehensive line of products and therapies to treat aortic disease, such as aneurysms, dissections, and transections, as well as peripheral vascular disease, and venous disease. Our products include endovascular stent graft systems, peripheral drug coated balloons, stent and angioplasty systems, and carotid embolic protection systems for the treatment of vascular disease outside the heart, and products for superficial and deep venous disease. Principal products offered include: Endovascular stent grafts and accessories including the Endurant II Stent Grant System for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms, the Valiant Navion Thoracic Stent Grant System for thoracic endovascular aortic repair procedures, and the Heli-FX EndoAnchor System. Percutaneous angioplasty balloons including the IN.PACT family of drug-coated balloons, vascular stents, directional atherectomy products, and other procedure support tools. Products to treat superficial venous diseases in the lower extremities including the ClosureFast radiofrequency ablation system and the VenaSeal medical adhesive closure system. MINIMALLY INVASIVE THERAPIES GROUP The Minimally Invasive Therapies Group is made up of the Surgical Innovations and Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, Renal divisions. Products and therapies of this group are used primarily by hospitals, physicians' offices, ambulatory care centers, and other alternate site healthcare providers. While less frequent, some products and therapies are also used in home settings. Surgical Innovations Our Surgical Innovations division develops, manufactures, and markets advanced and general surgical products including surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, and gynecology products and therapies to treat diseases and conditions that are typically, but not exclusively, addressed by surgeons. Principal products and services offered include: Advanced stapling and energy products, including the Tri-Staple technology platform for endoscopic stapling, including the Endo GIA reloads and reinforced reloads with Tri-Staple Technology and the Endo GIA ultra universal stapler, the LigaSure Exact Dissector and L-Hook Laparoscopic Sealer/Divider, and the Sonicision curved jaw cordless ultrasonic dissection system. Electrosurgical hardware and instruments, including the Valleylab FT10 energy platform, and the Force TriVerse electrosurgical pencils, and surgical artificial intelligence (AI), data and analytics, and digital education and training to support robotic assisted surgery platform. Products designed for the treatment of hernias, including the AbsorbaTack absorbable mesh fixation device for hernia repair, the Symbotex composite mesh for surgical laparoscopic and open ventral hernia repair, and Parietex ProGrip, a self-gripping, biocompatible solution for inguinal hernias. 5 Table of Contents Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, Renal Our Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, Renal division develops, manufactures, and markets products in the emerging fields of minimally invasive gastrointestinal and hepatologic diagnostics and therapies, patient monitoring, respiratory interventions including airway management and ventilation therapies, and for the treatment of renal disease. Principal products and services offered include: Gastrointestinal and endoscopy products, including the PillCam portfolio, the Bravo calibration-free reflux testing systems, the EndoFLIP imaging systems, the Emprint ablation system with Thermosphere Technology, the Barrx platform through ablation with the Barrx 360 Express catheter, the Cool-tip radiofrequency ablation system, and the HET Bipolar System. Airway, ventilation, and inhalation therapies products, including the Puritan Bennett 980, 840, and 560 ventilators, the Newport e360 and HT70 ventilators, the TaperGuard Evac tube, Shiley Endotracheal Tubes, Shiley Tracheostomy Tubes, McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes, and DAR Filters. Products focused on patient monitoring, including Capnostream capnography monitors, Nellcor pulse oximetry monitors, INVOS cerebral/somatic oximetry systems, and Bispectral Index (BIS) brain monitoring technology. Products providing solutions for the treatment of renal disease, including Palindrome, Mahurkar and Mahurkar Elite Dialysis Access Catheters for renal therapy, and other products designed for use in treatment of both acute and chronic renal failure conditions. RESTORATIVE THERAPIES GROUP The Restorative Therapies Group is made up of the Brain Therapies, Spine, Specialty Therapies, and Pain Therapies divisions. The primary medical specialists who use the products of this group include spinal surgeons, neurosurgeons, neurologists, pain management specialists, anesthesiologists, orthopedic surgeons, urologists, colorectal surgeons, urogynecologists, interventional radiologists, and ear, nose, and throat specialists. Brain Therapies Our Brain Therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets an integrated portfolio of devices and therapies for the treatment of neurological disorders and diseases, as well as surgical technologies designed to improve the precision and workflow of neuro procedures. Principal products and services offered include: Neurovascular products to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain. This includes coils, neurovascular stent retrievers, and flow diversion products, as well as access and delivery products to support procedures. Products also include the Pipeline Flex Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms, the portfolio of Solitaire revascularization devices for treatment of acute ischemic stroke, the Riptide Aspiration System and a portfolio of associated access catheters including our React aspiration catheters also for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. Brain modulation products, including those for the treatment of the disabling symptoms of Parkinson's disease, essential tremor, refractory epilepsy, severe, treatment-resistant obsessive compulsive disorder (approved under a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) in the U.S.), and chronic, intractable primary dystonia (approved under a HDE in the U.S.). Specifically, this includes our family of Activa Neurostimulators, including Activa SC (single-channel primary cell battery), Activa PC (dual channel primary cell battery), and Activa RC (dual channel rechargeable battery). This also includes our Percept PC Neurostimulator DBS system with BrainSense technology, which received CE Mark approval in January of 2020. 6 Table of Contents Neurosurgery products, including platform technologies, implant therapies, and advanced energy products. Our StealthStation S8 Navigation System, Stealth Autoguide cranial robotic guidance platform, and O-arm Imaging System are platforms used in cranial, spinal, sinus, and orthopedic procedures. Our Mazor X robotic guidance systems are used in robot-assisted spine procedures and combine the best-in-class robotics and navigation capability. Our Midas Rex Surgical Drills, including our new MR8 high-speed drill system, are used in cranial, spinal, ENT, and orthopedic procedures. Our CSF Management Portfolio is used in treating hydrocephalus and other conditions impacting the intracranial pressure, and our Visualase MRI-guided laser ablation is used in cranial procedures. Our PEAK Surgery System and Aquamantys Sealers are advanced energy products. Our PEAK Surgery System is a tissue dissection system that consists of the PEAK PlasmaBlade and PULSAR Generator and is cleared for use in a variety of settings, including plastic reconstructive surgery, general surgery, and certain conditions of ENT. Our Aquamantys Sealers use patented transcollation technology to provide haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone and are cleared for use in a variety of surgical procedures, including orthopedic surgery, spine, solid organ resection and thoracic procedures. Spine Our Spine division develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive line of medical devices and implants used in the treatment of the spine and musculoskeletal system. Our Spine division also provides biologic solutions for the orthopedic and dental markets and, in concert with our Neurosurgery business, offers unique and highly differentiated imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and Mazor robotic guidance systems used in robot assisted spine procedures. Principal products and services offered include: Products to treat a variety of conditions affecting the spine, including degenerative disc disease, spinal deformity, spinal tumors, fractures of the spine, and stenosis. These products include our CD HORIZON SOLERA system, T2 Strastosphere, and the CLYDESDALE, and ELEVATE interbody spacers. These products also include titanium interbody implants and surface technologies from Titan Spine, acquired in June of 2019. Products that facilitate less invasive thoracolumbar surgeries, including the CD HORIZON SOLERA VOYAGER and LONGITUDE Percutaneous Fixation Systems. Products to treat conditions in the cervical region of the spine, including the ZEVO Anterior Cervical Plate System, the INFINITY OCT System, and PRESTIGE LP Cervical Artificial Discs. Biologic solutions products, including our INFUSE Bone Graft (InductOs in the European Union (E.U.)), which contains a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein, rhBMP-2, for certain spinal, trauma, and oral maxillofacial applications. Demineralized Bone Matrix products, including MagniFuse, GRAFTON/GRAFTON PLUS, COREX, and PROGENIX, and the MASTERGRAFT family of synthetic bone graft products - Matrix, Putty, and Granules. Specialty Therapies Our Specialty Therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases of the ear, nose and throat (ENT), help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. Principal products and services offered include: Pelvic health and gastric therapies products, including our Interstim, InterStim Micro, and InterStim II neurostimulators, and InterStim SureScan MRI leads, to help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. Our NURO System delivers Percutaneous Tibial Neuromodulation therapy to treat overactive bladder and associated symptoms of urinary urgency, urinary frequency, and urge incontinence. Our Enterra gastric neurostimulator is approved as a humanitarian device and is used for the treatment of chronic, intractable nausea and vomiting due to gastroparesis. ENT products, including the Straightshot M5 Microdebrider Handpiece, the IPC system, NIM Nerve Monitoring Systems, FUSION Compact and StealthStation ENT Navigation System, as well as products for hearing restoration and obstructive sleep apnea. Pain Therapies Our Pain Therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets spinal cord stimulation systems, implantable drug infusion systems for chronic pain, as well as interventional products. Principal products and services offered include: Spinal cord stimulation products, including rechargeable and non-rechargeable devices and a large selection of leads used to treat chronic back and/or limb pain. This includes the Intellis Spinal Cord Stimulation System, with 7 Table of Contents AdaptiveStim and SureScan MRI Technology, DTM (differential target multiplexed) proprietary waveform, the Evolve workflow algorithm, and Snapshot reporting. Products also include our RestoreSensor (rechargeable) SureScan MRI neurostimulation system, with its proprietary AdaptiveStim technology. Implantable drug infusion systems, including our SynchroMed II Implantable Infusion System, that deliver small quantities of drug directly into the intrathecal space surrounding the spinal cord. Interventional products, including the Xpander II Balloon Kyphoplasty system, the Kyphon-V vertebroplasty system and the OsteoCool RF Tumor ablation system. The Accurian nerve ablation system, which conducts radio frequency ablation of nerve tissues. DIABETES GROUP The Diabetes Group develops, manufactures, and markets products and services for the management of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. The primary medical specialists who use and/or prescribe our Diabetes products are endocrinologists and primary care physicians. Principal products and services offered include: Insulin pumps, including the MiniMed 670G system, which is the world's first hybrid closed loop system. The system, powered by SmartGuard technology, mimics some of the functions of a healthy pancreas by providing two levels of automated insulin delivery to maximize Time in Range with reduced user input. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, including the Guardian Connect smart CGM system, the iPro2 professional CGM, and the Envision PRO professional CGM, are products worn by patients capturing glucose data to reveal patterns and potential problems, such as hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic episodes. OTHER FACTORS IMPACTING OUR OPERATIONS COVID-19 Pandemic The global COVID-19 pandemic, together with the preventative and precautionary measures taken by businesses, communities and governments, is impacting, and we expect will continue to impact significant aspects of our Company and business, including demand for our products, our operations, supply chains and distribution systems, and our ability to research and develop and bring new products and services to market. See