Item 1. Business and Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as those related to: competition in the medical device industry; delays in regulatory approvals; the global COVID-19 pandemic, including new COVID-19 variants that may emerge, as well as potential impacts of the pandemic on healthcare staffing levels; reduction or interruption in our supply; failure to complete or achieve the intended benefits of acquisitions or divestitures; adverse regulatory action; laws and governmental regulations; litigation results; quality problems; healthcare policy changes; cybersecurity incidents; international operations, including the impact of armed conflicts; 1 Table of Contents self-insurance; commercial insurance; changes in applicable tax rates; positions taken by taxing authorities; decreasing selling prices and pricing pressure; liquidity shortfalls; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; inflation; or disruption of our current plans and operations. Consequently, no forward-looking statement may be guaranteed, and actual results may vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We intend to take advantage of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding our forward-looking statements and are including this sentence for the express purpose of enabling us to use the protections of the safe harbor with respect to all forward-looking statements. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, whether as a result of any new information, future events, or otherwise, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Medtronic plc, headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, is the leading global healthcare technology company. Medtronic was founded in 1949 and today serves healthcare systems, physicians, clinicians, and patients in more than 150 countries worldwide. We remain committed to a mission written by our founder in 1960 that directs us to contribute to human welfare by the application of biomedical engineering in the research, design, manufacture, and sale of products to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life. Our Mission to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life empowers insight-driven care and better outcomes for our world. We remain committed to being recognized as a company of dedication, honesty, integrity, and service. Building on this strong foundation, we are embracing our role as a healthcare technology leader and evolving our business strategy in four key areas: Leveraging our pipeline to win market share: The combination of our good end markets, recent product launches and robust pipeline is expected to continue accelerating our growth over both the near-and long-term. We aim to bring inventive and disruptive technology to large healthcare opportunities which enables us to better meet patient needs. Patients around the world deserve access to our life-saving products, and we are driven to use our local presence and scale to increase the adoption of our products and services in markets around the globe. Serving more patients by accelerating innovation driven growth and delivering shareholder value: We listen to our patients and customers to better understand the challenges they face. From the patient journey, to creating agile partnerships that produce novel solutions, to making it easier for our customers to deploy our therapies everything we do is anchored in deep insight, and creates simpler, superior experiences. Creating and disrupting markets with our technology: We are confident in our ability to maximize new technology, artificial intelligence (AI), and data and analytics to tailor therapies in real-time, facilitating remote monitoring and care delivery that conveniently manages conditions, and creates new standards of care. Empowering our operating units to be more nimble and more competitive: Our operating model, which was effective February 2021, simplified our organization to accelerate decision making, improve commercial execution, and more effectively leverage the scale of our company. We have four operating and reportable segments that primarily develop, manufacture, distribute, and sell device-based medical therapies and services: the Cardiovascular Portfolio, the Medical Surgical Portfolio, the Neuroscience Portfolio, and the Diabetes Operating Unit. For more information regarding our segments, please see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents CARDIOVASCULAR PORTFOLIO The Cardiovascular Portfolio is made up of the Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure, Structural Heart Aortic, and Coronary Peripheral Vascular divisions. The primary medical specialists who use our Cardiovascular products include electrophysiologists, implanting cardiologists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular, cardiothoracic, and vascular surgeons, and interventional cardiologists and radiologists. Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure Our Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure division includes the following Operating Units: Cardiac Rhythm Management; Cardiac Ablation Solutions; and Cardiovascular Diagnostics and Services. The division develops, manufactures, and markets products for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of heart rhythm disorders and heart failure. Our products include implantable devices, leads and delivery systems, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF), products designed to reduce surgical site infections, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm Heart Failure devices, and an integrated health solutions business. Principal products and services offered include: Implantable cardiac pacemakers including the Azure MRI SureScan, Adapta, Advisa MRI SureScan, and the Micra Transcatheter Pacing System. The Micra Transcatheter Pacing System, which is leadless and does not have a subcutaneous device pocket like a conventional pacemaker, includes the Micra VR device and the Micra AV device. Both of these pacemakers treats patients with atrioventricular block. Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), including the Visia AF MRI SureScan, Evera MRI SureScan, Primo MRI, and the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of BlueSync-enabled ICDs, as well as defibrillator leads, including the Sprint Quattro Secure lead. Implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (CRT-Ds and CRT-Ps) including the Claria/Amplia/Compia family of MRI Quad CRT-D SureScan systems and the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of BlueSync-enabled CRT-Ds, as well as the Percepta/Serena/Solara family of MRI Quad CRT-P SureScan systems. Cardiac ablation products including the Arctic Front Advanced Cardiac cryoablation System, designed for pulmonary vein isolation in the treatment of patients with paroxysmal and persistent AF, as well as the DiamondTemp Ablation system, which is the first U.S. FDA-approved, temperature controlled, irrigated radiofrequency ablation system. Insertable cardiac monitoring systems, including the Reveal LINQ and LINQ II. These devices are for patients who experience infrequent symptoms such as dizziness, palpitation, syncope (fainting) and chest pain, which may indicate a cardiac arrhythmia that requires long-term monitoring or ongoing management. The LINQ II device offers improved device longevity, unmatched accuracy and a streamlined workflow with AccuRhythm AI algorithms to reduce clinic workload and data burden. TYRX products, including the Cardiac and Neuro Absorbable Antibacterial Envelopes, which are designed to stabilize electronic implantable devices and help prevent infection associated with implantable pacemakers, and defibrillators. Remote monitoring services and patient-centered software to enable efficient care coordination and specialized telehealth nurse support as well as services related to hospital operational efficiency. Medtronic stopped the distribution and sale of the HVAD System on June 3, 2021. We continue a support program for patients with HVAD devices, and for caregivers and healthcare professionals who participate in their care. 4 Table of Contents Structural Heart Aortic Our Structural Heart Aortic division includes the following Operating Units: Structural Heart Aortic and Cardiac Surgery. The division includes therapies to treat heart valve disorders and aortic disease. Our devices include products for the repair and replacement of heart valves, perfusion systems, positioning and stabilization systems for beating heart revascularization surgery, surgical ablation products, and comprehensive line of products and therapies to treat aortic disease, such as aneurysms, dissections, and transections. Principal products offered include: CoreValve family of aortic valves, including the Evolut R, Evolut PRO, and Evolut PRO+ systems for transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Surgical valve replacement and repair products for damaged or diseased heart valves, including both tissue and mechanical valves; blood-handling products that form a circulatory support system to maintain and monitor blood circulation and coagulation status, oxygen supply, and body temperature during arrested heart surgery; and surgical ablation systems and positioning and stabilization technologies. Endovascular stent grafts and accessories, including the Endurant II Stent Graft System for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms, the Valiant Captivia Thoracic Stent Graft System for thoracic endovascular aortic repair procedures, and the Heli-FX EndoAnchor System. Transcatheter Pulmonary Valves, including Harmony TPV and Delivery Catheter System and Melody TPV/Ensemble II Delivery System. Coronary Peripheral Vascular Our Coronary Peripheral Vascular division includes the following Operating Units: Coronary Renal Denervation and Peripheral Vascular Health. The division is comprised of a comprehensive line of products and therapies to treat coronary artery disease as well as peripheral vascular disease and venous disease. Our products include coronary stents and related delivery systems, including a broad line of balloon angioplasty catheters, guide catheters, guide wires, diagnostic catheters, and accessories, peripheral drug coated balloons, stent and angioplasty systems, carotid embolic protection systems for the treatment of vascular disease outside the heart, and products for superficial and deep venous disease. Principal products offered include: Percutaneous Coronary Intervention products including our Resolute Onyx drug-eluting stent, Euphora balloons, and Launcher guide catheters. Percutaneous angioplasty balloons including the IN.PACT family of drug-coated balloons, vascular stents including the Abre venous stent, directional atherectomy products including the HawkOne directional atherectomy system, and other procedure support tools. Products to treat superficial venous diseases in the lower extremities including the ClosureFast radiofrequency ablation system and the VenaSeal Closure System. 5 Table of Contents MEDICAL SURGICAL PORTFOLIO The Medical Surgical Portfolio is made up of the Surgical Innovations and Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, Renal divisions. Products and therapies of this group are used primarily by healthcare systems, physicians' offices, ambulatory care centers, and other alternate site healthcare providers. While less frequent, some products and therapies are also used in home settings. Surgical Innovations Our Surgical Innovations division includes the following Operating Units: Surgical Innovations and Surgical Robotics. The division develops, manufactures, and markets advanced and general surgical products, including surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, surgical artificial intelligence (AI) and robotic-assisted surgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, gynecology products, lung health and visualization, and therapies to treat diseases and conditions that are typically, but not exclusively, addressed by surgeons. Principal products and services offered include: Advanced stapling and energy products, including the Tri-Staple technology platform for endoscopic stapling, including the Endo GIA reloads and reinforced reloads with Tri-Staple Technology and the Endo GIA ultra universal stapler; the Signia Powered Stapling System; the LigaSure Exact Dissector and L-Hook Laparoscopic Sealer/Divider; and the Sonicision curved jaw cordless ultrasonic dissection system. Electrosurgical hardware and instruments, including the Valleylab FT10 energy platform, and the Force TriVerse electrosurgical pencils. Robotic and digital surgery technologies including, the Hugo robotic-assisted surgery (RAS) system designed for a broad range of soft-tissue procedures and Touch Surgery Enterprise, the first AI-powered surgical video management solution for the operating room. Products designed for the treatment of hernias, including the AbsorbaTack absorbable mesh fixation device for hernia repair, the Symbotex composite mesh for surgical laparoscopic and open ventral hernia repair, and Parietex ProGrip, a self-gripping, biocompatible solution for inguinal hernias. Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, Renal Our Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, Renal division includes the following Operating Units: Respiratory Interventions, Patient Monitoring, Gastrointestinal, and Renal Care Solutions. The division develops, manufactures, and markets products in the emerging fields of minimally invasive gastrointestinal and hepatologic diagnostics and therapies, patient monitoring, respiratory interventions including airway management and ventilation therapies, and for the treatment of renal disease. Principal products and services offered include: Gastrointestinal and endoscopy products, including the PillCam capsule endoscopy systems, the Bravo calibration-free reflux testing systems, the EndoFLIP imaging systems, the Emprint ablation system with Thermosphere Technology, the ManoScan Bravo system, the Barrx platform through ablation with the Barrx 360 Express catheter, the GI Genius intelligent endoscopy module, the Cool-tip radiofrequency ablation system, and the HET Bipolar System. Airway, ventilation, and inhalation therapies products, including the Puritan Bennett 980 and 840 ventilators, the Newport e360 and HT70 ventilators, the TaperGuard Evac tube, Shiley Endotracheal Tubes, Shiley Tracheostomy Tubes, McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes, and DAR Filters. Products focused on patient monitoring, including Nellcor pulse oximetry monitors and sensors, Microstream capnography monitors, Bispectral Index (BIS) brain monitoring technology, INVOS cerebral/somatic oximetry systems, Vital Sync remote monitoring, and WarmTouch convective warming. Products providing solutions for the treatment of renal disease, including Palindrome, Mahurkar and Mahurkar Elite Dialysis Access Catheters for renal therapy, Argyle peritoneal dialysis catheters, Carpediem dialysis machines for pediatric patients, 6 Table of Contents Amplya dialysis machines for acute patients, and other products designed for use in treatment of both acute and chronic renal failure conditions. NEUROSCIENCE PORTFOLIO The Neuroscience Portfolio is made up of the Cranial Spinal Technologies, Specialty Therapies, and Neuromodulation divisions. The primary medical specialists who use the products of this group include spinal surgeons, neurosurgeons, neurologists, pain management specialists, anesthesiologists, orthopedic surgeons, urologists, urogynecologists, interventional radiologists, and ear, nose, and throat specialists. Cranial Spinal Technologies Our Cranial Spinal Technologies division and Operating Unit develops, manufactures, and markets an integrated portfolio of devices and therapies for surgical technologies designed to improve the precision and workflow of neuro procedures, and a comprehensive line of medical devices and implants used in the treatment of the spine and musculoskeletal system. The division also provides biologic solutions for the orthopedic and dental markets and offers unique and highly differentiated imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and robotic guidance systems used in spine and cranial procedures. Principal products and services offered include: Neurosurgery products, including platform technologies, implant therapies, and advanced energy products. This includes our StealthStation S8 Navigation System, Stealth Autoguide cranial robotic guidance platform, O-arm Imaging System, Mazor X robotic guidance systems used in robot-assisted spine procedures, and our Midas Rex Surgical Drills, including our MR8 high-speed drill system. This group of products also includes our cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Management Portfolio, Visualase MRI-guided laser ablation, Aquamantys Sealers, and our PEAK Surgery System used in tissue dissection that consists of the PEAK PlasmaBlade and PULSAR Generator. Products to treat a variety of conditions affecting the spine, including degenerative disc disease, spinal deformity, spinal tumors, fractures of the spine, and stenosis. These products include our CD HORIZON SOLERA system, T2 STRATOSPHERE, and CLYDESDALE interbody spacers. These products also include titanium interbody implants and surface technologies, such as our Adaptix interbody system and the Titan Interbody Fusion Device with NanoLOCK technology. Products that facilitate less invasive thoracolumbar surgeries, including the CD HORIZON SOLERA VOYAGER Percutaneous Fixation System. Products to treat conditions in the cervical region of the spine, including the ZEVO Anterior Cervical Plate System, the INFINITY OCT System, and PRESTIGE LP Cervical Artificial Discs. Biologic solutions products, including our INFUSE Bone Graft (InductOs in the European Union (E.U.)), which contains a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein, rhBMP-2, for certain spinal, trauma, and oral maxillofacial applications. Demineralized Bone Matrix products, including MAGNIFUSE, GRAFTON/GRAFTON PLUS, and the MASTERGRAFT family of synthetic bone graft products Matrix, Putty, and Granules. Specialty Therapies Our Specialty Therapies division includes the following Operating Units: Neurovascular; Ear, Nose, and Throat (ENT); and Pelvic Health. The division develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases of ENT, patients afflicted with acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, and help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. Principal products and services offered include: Pelvic health products, including our InterStim X, InterStim Micro, and InterStim II neurostimulators, and InterStim SureScan MRI leads, to help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. Our NURO System delivers Percutaneous Tibial Neuromodulation therapy to treat overactive bladder and associated symptoms of urinary urgency, urinary frequency, and urge incontinence. 7 Table of Contents ENT products, including the Straightshot M5 Microdebrider Handpiece, the IPC system, NIM Nerve Monitoring Systems, FUSION Compact and StealthStation ENT Navigation System, as well as products for hearing restoration and obstructive sleep apnea. Neurovascular products to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain. This includes coils, neurovascular stent retrievers, and flow diversion products, as well as access and delivery products to support procedures. Products also include the Pipeline Flex Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms, the portfolio of Solitaire revascularization devices for treatment of acute ischemic stroke, the Riptide Aspiration System, the Onyx Liquid Embolic System, and a portfolio of associated access catheters including our React aspiration catheters also for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. Neuromodulation Our Neuromodulation division and Operating Unit develops, manufactures, and markets spinal cord stimulation systems, implantable drug infusion systems for chronic pain, as well as interventional products. Principal products and services offered include: Spinal cord stimulation products, including rechargeable and non-rechargeable devices and a large selection of leads used to treat chronic back and/or limb pain and chronic pain resulting from diabetic peripheral neuropathy. This includes the Intellis Spinal Cord Stimulation System, with AdaptiveStim and SureScan MRI Technology, DTM (differential target multiplexed) proprietary waveform, the Evolve workflow algorithm, and Snapshot reporting. Products also include our RestoreSensor (rechargeable) SureScan MRI neurostimulation system with its proprietary AdaptiveStim technology. Brain modulation products, including those for the treatment of the disabling symptoms of Parkinson's disease, essential tremor, refractory epilepsy, severe, treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (approved under a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) in the U.S.), and chronic, intractable primary dystonia (approved under a HDE in the U.S.). Specifically, this includes our family of Activa Neurostimulators, including Activa SC (single-channel primary cell battery), Activa PC (dual channel primary cell battery), and Activa RC (dual channel rechargeable battery). This also includes our Percept PC Neurostimulator DBS system with BrainSense technology. Implantable drug infusion systems, including our SynchroMed II Implantable Infusion System, that deliver small quantities of drug directly into the intrathecal space surrounding the spinal cord. Interventional products, including the Kyphon Balloon, the Kyphon V, and Kyphon Assist systems and the OsteoCool RF Tumor ablation system. The Accurian nerve ablation system, which conducts radio frequency ablation of nerve tissues. DIABETES OPERATING UNIT The Diabetes Operating Unit develops, manufactures, and markets products and services for the management of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. The primary medical specialists who use and/or prescribe our Diabetes products are endocrinologists and primary care physicians. Principal products and services offered include: Insulin pumps and consumables, including the MiniMed 770G system and MiniMed 780G system, which are all powered by SmartGuard technology. The MiniMed 770G system provides smartphone and Bluetooth connectivity, continuously delivers background insulin, monitors sugar levels, and an expanded age indication to ages two and up. The MiniMed 780G enhances the insulin pump systems by including automatic correction boluses and an adjustable glucose target down to 100 mg/dl. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems and sensors, including the Guardian Connect smart CGM system, the Guardian Sensor 3, and the Guardian Sensor 4, are products worn by patients capturing glucose data to reveal patterns and potential problems, such as hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic episodes. 8 Table of Contents The InPen smart insulin pen system that combines a reusable Bluetooth-enabled insulin pen with an intuitive mobile app that helps users administer the appropriate insulin dose. The InPen application integrates with our CGM data to provide real-time CGM readings alongside insulin dose information. Consumables and supplies, including infusion sets. HUMAN CAPITAL Medtronic Workforce Overview Medtronic s employees deliver on our Mission every day. We empower insight-driven care, experiences that put people first, and better outcomes for our world. In everything we do, we are engineering the extraordinary. We strive to be the employer of choice for the best and brightest global talent, where employees can grow and develop fulfilling careers. We aspire to create a truly inclusive, diverse, and equitable workplace that fosters innovation and creativity, and where every employee feels a sense of belonging and well-being. Medtronic has 95,000+ full-time employees, of which forty-four percent are based in the U.S. or Puerto Rico. Inclusion, Diversity Equity We believe that improving health for people from all walks of life depends on our ability to unleash the creative power of our diverse global employees. By breaking down barriers to Inclusion, Diversity and Equity (ID E), we open doors for everyone, driving progress and prosperity around the world. As of the end of fiscal year 2022, 38 percent of our U.S. workforce is ethnically diverse; women comprise 50 percent of our global workforce; and 42 percent of our manager and above employees are women. Additionally, Medtronic employee resource groups (ERGs) are employee-led affinity groups that provide career development and networking opportunities for members and strengthen ties between employees of many different backgrounds, cultures, and interests. In fiscal year 2022, there were 12 ERGs and Diversity Networks across 75 countries with more than 34,000 members. Pay Equity For fiscal year 2022, in the United States we have achieved 100% pay equity for gender for the third consecutive year and 100% pay equity for ethnically diverse employees. Globally we have achieved 99% pay equity for gender. We are actively working to close any remaining pay gaps by continuing to expand the annual pay equity analyses for each country we operate in. Workforce Compensation Our compensation framework is designed to celebrate the value and contributions of our employees. We are committed to transparent communications on compensation. Our competitive approach to compensation reflects industry benchmarks and local market standards. Our programs include annual and long-term incentives that provide the means to share in the Company s success. To attract the best leaders, we offer competitive benefits and cash and equity incentives. We reward high-performing employees with an ownership stake in the company through restricted stock, and all employees have the opportunity to purchase stock at a significant discount. Learning Development The skills and dedication of our employees drive our business performance. Our comprehensive professional development programs empower our people to build rewarding careers and help us attract world-class talent. Our suite of professional development programs ensures that our employees, regardless of level, location, language or learning preferences, have access to opportunities to develop and grow. Our investment in employee development has contributed to more than 30 percent of our open roles being filled with internal employees. In fiscal year 2022, we began our shift away from degree requirements to focus on skills-based certification for certain roles within Medtronic. Additionally, as members of the Multiple Pathways Initiative, we have used a skill based approach to offering opportunities to expanded pools of external talent that have previously been held back due to lack of access to undergraduate education. Internally, employees can now participate through MAPS (Medtronic Advancement Pathways and Skill-building) in undergraduate courses from top-tier universities to enhance or obtain new skills, at no cost to the employee. Our change in approach has opened up opportunities for employees who have been otherwise restricted from career advancement due to degree requirements. Employee Engagement and Culture Through our organizational health survey, we gain valuable insight into the Medtronic employee experience and identify areas where we can improve in four key priority areas: 1) Employee Engagement, 2) Inclusion, 3) Innovation, and 4) Ethics. In our most recent survey ending in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, more than 77 percent of our employees responded. Medtronic carefully reviews and implements actions based on employee feedback in order to partner and create an inclusive, innovative and supportive environment. 9 Table of Contents To enable our transformation to be the global healthcare technology leader, we introduced a reinvigorated and revived culture. The Medtronic Mindset builds on our core values of integrity, quality, inclusion and collaboration. It urges us to act boldly, compete to win, move with speed and decisiveness, foster belonging, and deliver results the right way. Our renewed culture helps us meet the needs of our patients and customers, and ensures our Mission endures for many years to come. Health Safety As a large, global employer, it is our responsibility to maintain a safe workplace and support the well-being of our employees. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have placed a high priority on employee health, providing comprehensive benefits, accommodations and resources to support our workforce through this challenging time. During fiscal year 2022, we offered on-site vaccinations to our employees, enabling a vaccination rate of nearly 90% for our U.S. and Puerto Rico based workforce. To help limit exposure to the virus, we acted to ensure employees in business-critical functions who cannot work from home were protected, including those in research and development, quality, manufacturing, distribution, and sales. Personal protective equipment, increased sanitation, social distancing guidance, and facility updates (one-way hallways, cafeteria partitions and extra sinks) were provided to protect our employees. Medtronic has a comprehensive approach to providing robust support for our employees and their families not only during the pandemic, but also in natural disasters, civil unrest and war, bereavement, and other challenging events. Along with other programs, the Medtronic Employee Assistance Program and the Medtronic Employee Emergency Assistance Fund have historically supported employees and their families when faced with difficult t