Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 47 Item 2. Properties 47 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 47 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 48 Item 6. Reserved 50 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 51 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 141 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 149 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 324 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 324 Item 9B. Other Information 326 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 326 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 326 Item 11. Executive Compensation 326 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 326 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 329 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 329 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 330 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 330 Exhibit Index 331 Signatures 341 Table of Contents As used in this Form 10-K, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events and do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words and terms such as anticipate, assume, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, if, intend, likely, may, plan, potential, project, should, will, would and other words and terms of similar meaning or that are otherwise tied to future periods or future performance, in each case in all derivative forms. They include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, future sales efforts, future expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and future trends in operations and financial results. Many factors determine Company results, and they involve unpredictable risks and uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements depend on our assumptions, our expectations, and our understanding of the economic environment, but they may be inaccurate and may change. We do not guarantee any future performance. Our results could differ materially from those we express or imply in forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, identified in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and others, may cause such differences. These factors include: (1) economic condition difficulties, including risks relating to public health, interest rates, credit spreads, equity, real estate, obligors and counterparties, currency exchange rates, derivatives, and terrorism and security; (2) global capital and credit market adversity; (3) credit facility inaccessibility; (4) financial strength or credit ratings downgrades; (5) unavailability, unaffordability, or inadequate reinsurance; (6) statutory life insurance reserve financing costs or limited market capacity; (7) legal, regulatory, and supervisory and enforcement policy changes; (8) changes in tax rates, tax laws or interpretations; (9) litigation and regulatory investigations; (10) London Interbank Offered Rate discontinuation and transition to alternative reference rates; (11) unsuccessful efforts to meet all environmental, social, and governance standards or to enhance our sustainability; (12) MetLife, Inc. s inability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock; (13) MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries inability to pay it dividends; (14) investment defaults, downgrades, or volatility; (15) investment sales or lending difficulties; (16) collateral or derivative-related payments; (17) investment valuations, allowances, or impairments changes; (18) claims or other results that differ from our estimates, assumptions, or models; (19) global political, legal, or operational risks; (20) business competition; (21) technological changes; (22) catastrophes; (23) climate changes or responses to it; 2 Table of Contents (24) deficiencies in our closed block; (25) goodwill or other asset impairment, or deferred income tax asset allowance; (26) acceleration of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of business acquired, value of distribution agreements acquired or value of customer relationships acquired; (27) product guarantee volatility, costs, and counterparty risks; (28) risk management failures; (29) insufficient protection from operational risks; (30) failure to protect confidentiality and integrity of data or other cybersecurity or disaster recovery failures; (31) accounting standards changes; (32) excessive risk-taking; (33) marketing and distribution difficulties; (34) pension and other postretirement benefit assumption changes; (35) inability to protect our intellectual property or avoid infringement claims; (36) acquisition, integration, growth, disposition, or reorganization difficulties; (37) Brighthouse Financial, Inc. separation risks; (38) MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors influence over the outcome of stockholder votes through the voting provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust; and (39) legal- and corporate governance-related effects on business combinations. The Company will not publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements if we believe we are not likely to achieve them or for any other reasons. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in subsequent reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts See Exhibit Index Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts for information regarding agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Index to Business Page Business Overview Strategy 5 Segments and Corporate Other 7 Policyholder Liabilities 12 Underwriting and Pricing 12 Reinsurance Activity 13 Regulation 14 Competition 29 Human Capital Resources 29 Information About Our Executive Officers 31 Trademarks 32 Available Information 32 4 Table of Contents Business Overview Strategy As used in this Form 10-K, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. MetLife is one of the world s leading financial services companies, providing insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. We hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. We are also one of the largest institutional investors in the United States with a general account portfolio invested primarily in fixed income securities (corporate, structured products, municipals, and government and agency) and mortgage loans, as well as real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and equity securities. Our well-recognized brand, globally diversified and market-leading businesses, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value. We will continue to execute on our Next Horizon strategy, creating value focusing on the following three pillars: Focus Generate strong free cash flow by deploying capital and resources to the highest value opportunities. Simplify Simplify our business to deliver operational efficiency and an outstanding customer experience. Differentiate Drive competitive advantage through our brand, scale, talent, and innovation. MetLife is organized into five segments: U.S.; Asia; Latin America; Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ); and MetLife Holdings. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate Other. Se e Segments and Corporate Other and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company s segments and Corporate Other. 5 Table of Contents In the United States, we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life, dental, disability, vision, accident health, capital market investment, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities. Outside the United States, we provide life, medical, dental, credit and other accident health insurance, as well as annuities, endowment and retirement savings products. We believe these businesses will generally continue to grow more quickly than our United States businesses. 6 Table of Contents Segments and Corporate Other U.S. Our businesses in the U.S. segment offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to corporations and their respective employees, other institutions and their respective members, as well as individuals. Our U.S. segment is organized into two businesses: Group Benefits and Retirement and Income Solutions ( RIS ). Prior to its disposition in April 2021, our former Property Casualty business was included in the U.S. segment. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Company's disposition of MetLife Property and Casualty Insurance Company and certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, MetLife P C ). Group Benefits We have built a leading position in the United States group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in the United States. Our Group Benefits business offers life insurance, dental, group short- and long-term disability ( LTD ), individual disability, accidental death and dismemberment ( AD D ) insurance, vision, and accident health insurance, as well as prepaid legal plans, and has recently introduced pet insurance. We also sell administrative services-only ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers. We distribute Group Benefits products and services through a sales force primarily comprised of MetLife employees that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Account executives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Employers have been emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products. We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand opportunities to market and distribute Group Benefits products and services. We also sell our Group Benefits products and services through sponsoring associations and affinity groups and provide life, dental, accident health, and vision coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government. We have longstanding relationships with these employees and continue to cultivate and expand them through additional product offerings. Group Benefits business quarterly claims experience may vary, as seasonal illnesses effect mortality and morbidity and due to utilization rate fluctuation in our non-medical health businesses. Annual benefit renewal implementation, enrollment, and marketing costs normally elevate Group Benefits business expenses in the fourth quarter. 7 Table of Contents Major Products Term Life Insurance A guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living. Variable Life Insurance Insurance coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Premiums and account balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. With some products, by maintaining certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. Universal Life Insurance Insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company s general account. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. Dental Insurance and ASO arrangements that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses. Disability Insurance and ASO arrangements for groups and individuals to provide benefits for income replacement, payment of business overhead expenses or mortgage protection, in the event of the disability of the insured. Accident Health Insurance Accident, critical illness or hospital indemnity coverage to the insured. Vision Insurance, ASO arrangements, and managed eye health and vision care solutions to assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining vision health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses. Offered to commercial groups, individuals, health plans and government sponsored programs through a nationwide provider network, retail optical chains and online eyewear providers. Retirement and Income Solutions Our RIS business provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products. We distribute RIS products and services through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers primarily comprised of MetLife employees. We may sell products directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries. Major Products Stable Value Products General account guaranteed interest contracts ( GIC s ) are designed to provide stable value investment options within tax-qualified defined contribution plans by offering a fixed maturity investment with a guarantee of liquidity at contract value for participant transactions. Separate account GIC s are available to defined contribution plan sponsors by offering market value returns on separate account investments with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value. Synthetic GICs or wraps are contracts available only to the sponsor of a participant-directed defined contribution plan. The contract wraps a portfolio of investments owned by the plan to provide a guarantee that plan participants will always be able to transact in their accounts at contract value. Generally, a wrap contract means that participants will not experience negative returns. Private floating rate funding agreements are generally privately-placed, unregistered investment contracts issued as general account obligations with interest credited based on a specified rate, such as the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) or other agreed upon short-term benchmark rate. These agreements are used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds. 8 Table of Contents Annuities Pension Risk Transfers General account and separate account annuities are offered in connection with defined benefit pension plans which include single premium buyouts allowing for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities. General account annuities include nonparticipating group contract benefits purchased for retired employees or active employees covered under terminating or ongoing pension plans. Separate account annuities include both participating and non-participating group contract benefits. Participating contract benefits are purchased for retired, terminated, or active employees covered under active or terminated pension plans. The assets supporting the guaranteed benefits for each contract are held in a separate account, however, the Company fully guarantees all benefit payments. Non-participating contracts have economic features similar to our general account product, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ), these annuity contracts are treated as general account products. Institutional Income Annuities General account contracts that are guaranteed payout annuities purchased for employees upon retirement or termination of employment. Contracts can be life or non-life contingent non-participating contracts which do not provide for any loan or cash surrender value and, with few exceptions, do not permit future considerations. Structured Settlements Customized annuities designed to serve as an alternative to a lump sum payment in a lawsuit initiated because of personal injury, wrongful death, or a workers compensation claim or other claim for damages. Surrenders are generally not allowed, although commutations are permitted in certain circumstances. Guaranteed payments consist of life contingent annuities, term certain annuities and lump sums. Risk Solutions Longevity Reinsurance Solutions Longevity reinsurance is a risk mitigation solution for United Kingdom ( U.K. ) pension plan sponsors and U.K. insurance companies that write pension risk transfer business, converting uncertain future pension benefit obligations into a fixed stream of payments to MetLife over the duration of the contract as opposed to a lump sum at inception in typical pension risk transfer transactions. Benefit Funding Solutions Specialized life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance nonqualified benefit programs for executives. Capital Markets Investment Products Funding agreement-backed notes are offered in medium term note programs, under which funding agreements are issued to special-purpose trusts that issue marketable notes in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. The proceeds of these note issuances are used to acquire funding agreements with matching interest and maturity payment terms from certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. The notes are underwritten and marketed by major investment banks broker-dealer operations and are sold to institutional investors. Funding agreement-backed commercial paper is issued by a special-purpose limited liability company which deposits the proceeds under a master funding agreement issued to it by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). The commercial paper is issued in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, receives the same short-term credit rating as MLIC and is marketed by major investment banks broker-dealer operations. Funding agreements are issued by certain of our insurance subsidiaries to regional Federal Home Loan Banks ( FHLB ) and to a subsidiary of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ( Farmer Mac. ) Asia Our Asia segment offers a broad range of products and services to both individuals and corporations, as well as to other institutions, and their respective employees. Our Asia operations are geographically diverse encompassing both developed and emerging markets. We operate in nine jurisdictions throughout Asia, with our largest operation in Japan. We market our products and services through a range of proprietary and third-party distribution channels. 9 Table of Contents In Japan, our digitally-enabled face-to-face channels, along with bancassurance and direct marketing, continue to be critical to our overall distribution strategy. Our competitive advantage in bancassurance is based on robust distribution relationships with Japan s very large banks, trust banks and various regional banks. Outside of Japan, our distribution strategies vary by market and leverage a combination of career and independent agencies, bancassurance and direct marketing. In select markets, we also use independent brokers and our employee sales force to sell group products. Major Products Life Insurance Whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products. Accident Health Insurance Full range of accident health products, including medical reimbursement, hospitalization, cancer, critical illness, disability, income protection, personal accident coverage and group health products. Retirement and Savings Fixed and variable annuities, as well as regular savings products. Latin America Our Latin America segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations and other institutions (including local, state and federal governments) and their respective employees. We offer government employees life, medical insurance, as well as retirement and savings, and other products, and periodically submit bids to do so. Our largest operations are in Mexico and Chile. We market our products and services through a multi-channel distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development. We have an exclusive and captive agency distribution network which sells a variety of individual life, accident health, and pension products. Our direct marketing channel includes sponsors and telesales representatives selling mainly accident health and individual life products directly to consumers. We also work with brokers and independent agents on sales of group and individual life, accident health, group medical, dental and pension products, and worksite marketing. Major Products Life Insurance Whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products. Retirement and Savings Fixed annuities and pension products. Fixed income annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Our savings-oriented pension products are primarily offered in Chile under a mandatory privatized social security system. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company's September 2021 disposition of its wholly-owned Argentinian subsidiary, MetLife Seguros S.A. ( MetLife Seguros ). Accident Health Insurance Group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, medical reimbursement, and medical coverage for serious medical conditions, as well as dental products. Credit Insurance Policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. 10 Table of Contents EMEA Our EMEA segment offers products to individuals, corporations, other institutions, and their respective employees. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company's disposition of (i) Joint-stock Company MetLife Insurance Company ( MetLife Russia ) and (ii) its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Greece ( MetLife Greece ), as well as the pending disposition of its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Poland ( MetLife Poland ) (MetLife Poland and MetLife Greece, collectively, MetLife Poland and Greece ). We operate across EMEA in both developed (Western Europe) and emerging (Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) markets. Our largest operations are in the U.K., Turkey and the Gulf region. In more mature markets, we focus our strategy on our preferred market segments to play a niche role. We also have a strong market presence in emerging markets leveraging a multi-channel distribution strategy. Our businesses in EMEA use captive and independent agency, independent brokerage, bancassurance, corporate solutions and direct-to-consumer distribution channels. Major Products Life Insurance Traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole and term life, endowments and variable life products, as well as group term life programs in most markets. Accident Health Insurance Individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we provide individual and group major medical coverage in select markets. Retirement and Savings Fixed annuities and pension products, including group pension programs in select markets. Credit Insurance Policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. MetLife Holdings This segment consists of operations relating to products and businesses that we no longer actively market in the United States. These include variable, universal, term and whole life insurance, variable, fixed and index-linked annuities, and long-term care insurance. It also includes assumed variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan. Major Products Variable, Universal and Term Life Insurance Similar to products offered by our Group Benefits business, except that these products were historically marketed to individuals through various retail distribution channels. For a description of these products, see U.S. Group Benefits. Whole Life Insurance A benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash, or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Variable Annuities Asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to allocate deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply. Fixed and Indexed-Linked Annuities Fixed annuities provide for asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant. Additionally, the Company has issued indexed-linked annuities which allow the contractholder to participate in returns from equity indices. Long-term Care Protection against the potentially high costs of long-term health care services. Generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. 11 Table of Contents Corporate Other Corporate Other contains various start-up, developing and run-off businesses. Also included in Corporate Other are: the excess capital, as well as certain charges and activities, not allocated to the segments (including external integration and disposition costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions and dispositions and enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges), interest expense related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt, expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues, the elimination of intersegment amounts (which generally relate to affiliated reinsurance, investment expenses and intersegment loans, bearing interest rates commensurate with related borrowings), and the Company s investment management business (through which the Company provides public fixed income, private capital and real estate investment solutions to institutional investors worldwide). Policyholder Liabilities We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investment