Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 43 Item 2. Properties 44 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 44 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. Reserved 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 124 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 129 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 330 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 330 Item 9B. Other Information 332 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 332 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 332 Item 11. Executive Compensation 333 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 333 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 336 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 337 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 338 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 338 Exhibit Index 339 Signatures 348 Table of Contents As used in this Form 10-K, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events and do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words and terms such as anticipate, are confident, assume, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, if, intend, likely, may, plan, potential, project, should, will, would and other words and terms of similar meaning or that are otherwise tied to future periods or future performance, in each case in all derivative forms. They include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, future sales efforts, future expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and future trends in operations and financial results. Many factors determine Company results, and they involve unpredictable risks and uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements depend on our assumptions, our expectations, and our understanding of the economic environment, but they may be inaccurate and may change. We do not guarantee any future performance. Our results could differ materially from those we express or imply in forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and others, may cause such differences. These factors include: (1) economic condition difficulties, including risks relating to interest rates, credit spreads, declining equity or debt markets, real estate, obligors and counterparties, government default, currency exchange rates, derivatives, climate change, public health and terrorism and security; (2) global capital and credit market adversity; (3) credit facility inaccessibility; (4) financial strength or credit ratings downgrades; (5) unavailability, unaffordability, or inadequate reinsurance, including reinsurance risks that arise from reinsurers credit risk, and the potential shortfall or failure of risk mitigants to protect against such risks; (6) statutory life insurance reserve financing costs or limited market capacity; (7) legal, regulatory, and supervisory and enforcement policy changes; (8) changes in tax rates, tax laws or interpretations; (9) litigation and regulatory investigations; (10) unsuccessful efforts to meet all environmental, social, and governance standards or to enhance our sustainability; (11) MetLife, Inc. s inability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock; (12) MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries inability to pay dividends to MetLife, Inc.; (13) investment defaults, downgrades, or volatility; (14) investment sales or lending difficulties; (15) collateral or derivative-related payments; (16) investment valuations, allowances, or impairments changes; (17) claims or other results that differ from our estimates, assumptions, or models; (18) global political, legal, or operational risks; (19) business competition; (20) technological changes; (21) catastrophes; (22) climate changes or responses to it; 2 Table of Contents (23) deficiencies in our closed block; (24) goodwill or other asset impairment, or deferred income tax asset allowance; (25) impairment of value of business acquired, value of distribution agreements acquired or value of customer relationships acquired; (26) product guarantee volatility, costs, and counterparty risks; (27) risk management failures; (28) insufficient protection from operational risks; (29) failure to protect confidentiality and integrity of data or other cybersecurity or disaster recovery failures; (30) accounting standards changes; (31) excessive risk-taking; (32) marketing and distribution difficulties; (33) pension and other postretirement benefit assumption changes; (34) inability to protect our intellectual property or avoid infringement claims; (35) acquisition, integration, growth, disposition, or reorganization difficulties; (36) Brighthouse Financial, Inc. separation risks; (37) MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors influence over the outcome of stockholder votes through the voting provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust; and (38) legal- and corporate governance-related effects on business combinations. MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in subsequent reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts See Exhibit Index Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts for information regarding agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Index to Business Page Business Overview Strategy 5 Segments and Corporate Other 6 Policyholder Liabilities 10 Underwriting and Pricing 11 Reinsurance Activity 12 Regulation 12 Competition 25 Human Capital Resources 26 Information About Our Executive Officers 27 Trademarks 28 Available Information 28 4 Table of Contents Business Overview Strategy As used in this Form 10-K, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. MetLife is one of the world s leading financial services companies, providing insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. We hold leading market positions in the United States ( U.S. ), Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. We are also one of the largest institutional investors in the U.S. with a general account portfolio invested primarily in fixed income securities (corporate, structured products, municipals, and government and agency) and mortgage loans, as well as real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and equity securities. Our well-recognized brand, globally diversified and market-leading businesses, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value. We will continue to execute on our Next Horizon strategy, creating value focusing on the following three pillars: Focus Generate strong free cash flow by deploying capital and resources to the highest value opportunities. Simplify Simplify our business to deliver operational efficiency and an outstanding customer experience. Differentiate Drive competitive advantage through our brand, scale, talent, and innovation. In the fourth quarter of 2023, MetLife reorganized from five segments into the following six segments to reflect changes in management s responsibilities: Group Benefits; Retirement and Income Solutions ( RIS ); Asia; Latin America; Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ); and MetLife Holdings. The Group Benefits and RIS businesses were previously reported as the U.S. segment. In addition, the Company continues to report certain of its results of operations in Corporate Other. Se e Segments and Corporate Other and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company s segments and Corporate Other. MetLife Group Benefits RIS Asia Latin America EMEA MetLife Holdings 5 Table of Contents Segments and Corporate Other We offer a broad range of products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers. We sell these products to corporations and other institutions (including local, state and federal governments) and their respective employees, as well as individuals. Group Benefits We have built a leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of the largest employers in the U.S. Our Group Benefits segment, based in the U.S., offers life insurance, dental, group short- and long-term disability, individual disability, accidental death and dismemberment ( AD D ) insurance, vision, and accident health insurance, as well as prepaid legal plans and pet insurance. We also sell administrative services-only ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers. We distribute Group Benefits products and services through a sales force primarily comprised of MetLife employees that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Account executives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Employers have been emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products. We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand opportunities to market and distribute Group Benefits products and services. We also sell Group Benefits products and services through sponsoring associations and affinity groups and provide life, dental, accident health, and vision coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government. We have longstanding relationships with these employees and continue to cultivate and expand them through additional product offerings. Our Group Benefits segment quarterly claims experience may vary, as seasonal illnesses effect mortality and morbidity, and due to utilization rate fluctuation in our non-medical health businesses. Annual benefit renewal implementation, enrollment, and marketing costs normally elevate expenses for the Group Benefits segment in the fourth quarter. Major Products Term Life Insurance A guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living. Variable Life Insurance Insurance coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Premiums and account balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. With some products, by maintaining certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. Universal Life Insurance Insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company s general account. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. Dental Insurance and ASO arrangements that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses. Disability Insurance and ASO arrangements for groups and individuals to provide benefits for income replacement, payment of business overhead expenses or mortgage protection, in the event of the disability of the insured. Accident Health Insurance Accident, critical illness or hospital indemnity coverage to the insured. Vision Insurance, ASO arrangements, and managed eye health and vision care solutions to assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining vision health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses. Offered to commercial groups, individuals, health plans and government sponsored programs through a nationwide provider network, retail optical chains and online eyewear providers. 6 Table of Contents Retirement and Income Solutions Our RIS segment, based in the U.S., provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products. We distribute RIS products and services through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers primarily comprised of MetLife employees. We may sell products directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries. Major Products Stable Value Products General account guaranteed interest contracts ( GIC s ) are designed to provide stable value investment options within tax-qualified defined contribution plans by offering a fixed maturity investment with a guarantee of liquidity at contract value for participant transactions. Separate account GIC s are available to defined contribution plan sponsors by offering market value returns on separate account investments with a general account guarantee that plan participants will always be able to transact in their accounts at contract value. Synthetic GICs or wraps are contracts available only to the sponsor of a participant-directed defined contribution plan. The contract wraps a portfolio of investments owned by the plan to provide a guarantee that plan participants will always be able to transact in their accounts at contract value. Generally, a wrap contract means that participants will not experience negative returns. Private floating rate funding agreements are generally privately-placed, unregistered investment contracts issued as general account obligations with interest credited based on a specified rate or agreed upon short-term benchmark rate. These agreements are used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds. Annuities Pension Risk Transfers General account and separate account annuities are offered in connection with defined benefit pension plans which include single premium buyouts allowing for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities. General account annuities include non-participating group contract benefits purchased for retired or active employees covered under terminating or ongoing pension plans. Separate account annuities include both participating and non-participating group contract benefits. Participating contract benefits are purchased for retired, terminated, or active employees covered under active or terminated pension plans. The assets supporting the guaranteed benefits for each contract are held in a separate account, however, the Company fully guarantees all benefit payments. Non-participating contracts have economic features similar to our general account product, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ), these annuity contracts are treated as general account products. Institutional Income Annuities General account contracts that are guaranteed payout annuities purchased for employees upon retirement or termination of employment. Contracts can be life or non-life contingent non-participating contracts which do not provide for any loan or cash surrender value and, with few exceptions, do not permit future considerations. Structured Settlements Customized annuities designed to serve as an alternative to a lump sum payment in a lawsuit initiated because of personal injury, wrongful death, or a workers compensation claim or other claim for damages. Surrenders are generally not allowed, although commutations are permitted in certain circumstances. Guaranteed payments consist of life contingent annuities, term certain annuities and lump sums. 7 Table of Contents Risk Solutions Longevity Reinsurance Solutions Longevity reinsurance is a risk mitigation solution for United Kingdom ( U.K. ) pension plan sponsors and U.K. insurance companies that write pension risk transfer business, converting uncertain future pension benefit obligations into a fixed stream of payments to MetLife over the duration of the contract as opposed to a lump sum at inception in typical pension risk transfer transactions. Benefit Funding Solutions Specialized life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance nonqualified benefit programs for executives. Capital Markets Investment Products Funding agreement-backed notes are offered in medium term note programs, under which funding agreements are issued to special-purpose trusts that issue marketable notes in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. The proceeds of these note issuances are used to acquire funding agreements with matching interest and maturity payment terms from certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. The notes are underwritten and marketed by major investment banks broker-dealer operations and are sold to institutional investors. Funding agreement-backed commercial paper is issued by a special-purpose limited liability company which deposits the proceeds under a master funding agreement issued to it by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). The commercial paper is issued in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, receives the same short-term credit rating as MLIC and is marketed by major investment banks broker-dealer operations. Funding agreements are issued by certain of our insurance subsidiaries to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLBNY ) and to a subsidiary of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. Asia Our Asia operations are geographically diverse encompassing both developed and emerging markets. We operate in nine jurisdictions throughout Asia, with our largest operation in Japan. We market our products and services through a range of proprietary and third-party distribution channels. In Japan, our face-to-face channels including both career and general agency, continue to be critical to our overall distribution strategy, catering to various needs of individual retail customers. Our competitive advantage in bancassurance is based on robust distribution relationships with Japan s very large banks, trust banks and various regional banks. Outside of Japan, our distribution strategies vary by market and leverage a combination of career and general agencies, bancassurance and direct marketing. In select markets, we also use independent brokers for retail sales and our employee sales force to sell group products. Major Products Life Insurance Whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products. Accident Health Insurance Full range of accident health products, including hospitalization, cancer, critical illness, disability, income protection and personal accident coverage. Retirement and Savings Fixed and variable annuities, as well as regular savings products. Latin America Our largest operations are in Mexico and Chile. We market our products and services through a multi-channel distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development. We have an exclusive and captive agency distribution network which sells a variety of individual life, accident health, and pension products. Our direct marketing channel includes sponsors and telesales representatives selling mainly accident health and individual life products directly to consumers. We also work with brokers and independent agents on sales of group and individual life, accident health, group medical, dental and pension products, and worksite marketing. We also offer to government employees life and medical insurance, as well as retirement and savings, and other products. 8 Table of Contents Major Products Life Insurance Whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products. Retirement and Savings Fixed annuities and pension products. Fixed income annuities provide for asset distribution needs. Our savings-oriented pension products are primarily offered in Chile under a mandatory privatized social security system. Accident Health Insurance Group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, medical reimbursement, and medical coverage for serious medical conditions, as well as dental products. Credit Insurance Policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. EMEA We operate across EMEA in both developed (Western Europe) and emerging (Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) markets. Our largest operations are in the Gulf region, the U.K. and France. In more mature markets, we focus our strategy on our preferred market segments to play a niche role. We also have a strong market presence in emerging markets leveraging a multi-channel distribution strategy. Our businesses in EMEA use captive and independent agency, independent brokerage, bancassurance, corporate solutions and direct-to-consumer distribution channels. Major Products Life Insurance Traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole and term life, endowments and variable life products, as well as group term life programs in most markets. Retirement and Savings Fixed annuities and pension products, including group pension programs in select markets. Accident Health Insurance Individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we provide individual and group major medical coverage in select markets. Credit Insurance Policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. MetLife Holdings This segment consists of operations relating to products and businesses that we no longer actively market in the U.S. These include variable, universal, term and whole life insurance, variable, fixed and index-linked annuities, and long-term care insurance. It also includes an in-force block of assumed variable annuity guarantees from a third party. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on a reinsurance transaction with subsidiaries of Global Atlantic Financial Group. 9 Table of Contents Major Products Variable, Universal and Term Life Insurance Similar to products offered by our Group Benefits segment, except that these products were historically marketed to individuals through various retail distribution channels. For a description of these products, see Group Benefits. Whole Life Insurance A benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash, or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Variable Annuities Variable annuities provide for asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to allocate deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply. Fixed and Indexed-Linked Annuities Fixed annuities provide for asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant. Additionally, the Company has issued indexed-linked annuities which allow the contractholder to participate in returns from equity indices. Long-term Care Protection against the potentially high costs of long-term health care services. Generally pays benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. Corporate Other Corporate Other contains various start-up, developing and run-off businesses. Also included in Corporate Other are: the excess capital, as well as certain charges and activities, not allocated to the segments (including external integration and disposition costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions and dispositions and enterprise-wide strategic initiatives), interest expense related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt, expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues, the elimination of intersegment amounts (which generally relate to investment expenses and intersegment loans bearing interest rates commensurate with related borrowings), and the Company s investment management business (through which the Company provides public fixed income, private capital and real estate investment solutions to institutional investors worldwide). Policyholder Liabilities We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy and the amount of benefits or claims to be paid. We establish liabilities for claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of losses and liabilities incurred. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported on the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on policyholder liabilities see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates Future Policy Benefit Liabilities. MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries, including affiliated reinsurers, establish statutory reserves under methods prescribed by the insurance laws of their respective domiciliary jurisdiction. These reserves are reported as liabilities, and we expect them to be sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits reported under GAAP generally differ due to the difference in accounting requirements. 10 Table of Contents U.S. state insurance laws and regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit an annual opinion and memorandum of a qualified actuary. In it, the qualified actuary states that the statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, adequately provide for the anticipated cash flow required to meet contractual obligations and related expenses. Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate require certain MetLife entities to prepare and submit a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements. See Regulation State Insurance