Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 33 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 51 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 133 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 142 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 326 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 326 Item 9B. Other Information 328 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 328 Item 11. Executive Compensation 328 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 328 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 331 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 332 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 332 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 332 Exhibit Index 333 Signatures 343 Table of Contents As used in this Form 10-K, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words and terms such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, continue, target, and remain and other words and terms of similar meaning, or are tied to future periods, in connection with a discussion of future performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. Many factors will be important in determining the results of MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. Forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and current expectations, which may be inaccurate, and on the current economic environment, which may change. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include: (1) difficult economic conditions, including risks relating to interest rates, credit spreads, equity, real estate, obligors and counterparties, currency exchange rates, derivatives, and terrorism and security; (2) adverse capital and credit market conditions, which may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and access capital, including through our credit facilities; (3) downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (4) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance, hedging or indemnification arrangements; (5) increasing cost and limited market capacity for statutory life insurance reserve financings; (6) the impact on us of changes to and implementation of the wide variety of laws and regulations to which we are subject; (7) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our operations that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services; (8) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (9) legal, regulatory and other restrictions affecting MetLife, Inc. s ability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock; (10) MetLife, Inc. s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from subsidiaries to meet free cash flow targets and debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (11) investment losses, defaults and volatility; (12) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (13) changes to securities and investment valuations, allowances and impairments taken on investments, and methodologies, estimates and assumptions; (14) differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions; (15) political, legal, operational, economic and other risks relating to our global operations; (16) competitive pressures, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors, and for personnel; (17) the impact of technological changes on our businesses; (18) catastrophe losses; (19) a deterioration in the experience of the closed block established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (20) impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets, or the establishment of a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax asset; (21) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements or value of business acquired; (22) exposure to losses related to guarantees in certain products; (23) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures or models; (24) a failure in our cybersecurity systems or other information security systems or our disaster recovery plans; (25) any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information; (26) changes in accounting standards; (27) our associates taking excessive risks; (28) difficulties in or complications from marketing and distributing products through our distribution channels; (29) increased expenses relating to pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (30) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of others intellectual property rights; (31) difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments, or rating agency actions arising from business acquisitions and dispositions, joint ventures, or other legal entity reorganizations; (32) unanticipated or adverse developments that could harm our expected operational or other benefits from the separation of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries; (33) the possibility that MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes through the voting provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust; (34) provisions of laws and our incorporation documents that may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and corporate combinations involving MetLife; and (35) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 2 Table of Contents Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts See Exhibit Index Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts for information regarding agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Index to Business Page Business Overview 5 Segments and Corporate Other 7 Policyholder Liabilities 14 Underwriting and Pricing 14 Reinsurance Activity 16 Regulation 16 Competition 31 Employees 31 Information About Our Executive Officers 32 Trademarks 33 Available Information 33 4 Table of Contents Business Overview As used in this Form 10-K, MetLife, the Company, we, our and us refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. MetLife is one of the world s leading financial services companies, providing insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. We hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. We are also one of the largest institutional investors in the United States with a $ 490.4 billion general account portfolio invested primarily in fixed income securities (corporate, structured products, municipals, and government and agency) and mortgage loans, as well as real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and equity securities at December 31, 2019 . Our well-recognized brand, globally diversified and market-leading businesses, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value. Over the course of the next several years, we will execute on our Next Horizon strategy, creating value focusing on the following three pillars: Focus Generate strong free cash flow by deploying capital and resources to the highest value opportunities. Simplify Simplify our business to deliver operational efficiency and an outstanding customer experience. Differentiate Drive competitive advantage through our brand, scale, talent, and innovation. MetLife is organized into five segments: U.S.; Asia; Latin America; Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ); and MetLife Holdings. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate Other. See Segments and Corporate Other and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company s segments and Corporate Other. Management continues to evaluate the Company s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability. 5 Table of Contents In the United States, we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life, dental, disability, property and casualty, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities to both individuals and groups. Outside the United States, we provide life, medical, dental, credit and other accident health insurance, as well as annuities, endowment and retirement savings products to both individuals and groups. We believe these businesses will continue to grow more quickly than our United States businesses. Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2017. Revenues derived from FedEx Corporation were $6.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, which represented 12% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues. The revenue was from a single premium received for a pension risk transfer. Revenues derived from any other customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 . 6 Table of Contents Segments and Corporate Other U.S. Product Overview Our businesses in the U.S. segment offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to corporations and their respective employees, other institutions and their respective members, as well as individuals. Our U.S. segment is organized into three businesses: Group Benefits, Retirement and Income Solutions ( RIS ) and Property Casualty. Group Benefits We have built a leading position in the United States group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in the United States. Our Group Benefits business offers life, dental, group short- and long-term disability ( LTD ), individual disability, accidental death and dismemberment ( AD D ), vision and accident health coverages, as well as prepaid legal plans. We also sell administrative services-only ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers. Major Products Term Life Insurance Provides a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living. Variable Life Insurance Provides insurance coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Premiums and account balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. With some products, by maintaining certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. Universal Life Insurance Provides insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company s general account. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. Dental Insurance Provides insurance and ASO arrangements that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses. Disability For groups and individuals, benefits such as income replacement, payment of business overhead expenses or mortgage protection, in the event of the disability of the insured. Accident Health Insurance Provides accident, critical illness or hospital indemnity coverage to the insured. Retirement and Income Solutions Our RIS business provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their qualified, nonqualified and welfare employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products. 7 Table of Contents Major Products Stable Value Products General account guaranteed interest contracts ( GIC s ) are designed to provide stable value investment options within tax-qualified defined contribution plans by offering a fixed maturity investment with a guarantee of liquidity at contract value for participant transactions. Separate account GIC s are available to defined contribution plan sponsors by offering market value returns on separate account investments with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value. Synthetic GICs or wraps are contracts available only to the sponsor of a participant-directed defined contribution plan. The contract wraps a portfolio of investments owned by the plan to provide a guarantee that plan participants will always be able to transact in their accounts at contract value. Generally, a wrap contract means that participants will not experience negative returns. Private floating rate funding agreements are generally privately-placed, unregistered investment contracts issued as general account obligations with interest credited based on the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ). These agreements are used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds. Pension Risk Transfers General account and separate account annuities are offered in connection with defined benefit pension plans which include single premium buyouts allowing for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities. General account annuities include nonparticipating group contract benefits purchased for retired employees or active employees covered under terminating or ongoing pension plans. Separate account annuities include both participating and non-participating group contract benefits. Participating contract benefits are purchased for retired, terminated, or active employees covered under active or terminated pension plans. The assets supporting the guaranteed benefits for each contract are held in a separate account, however, the Company fully guarantees all benefit payments. Non-participating contracts have economic features similar to our general account product, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ), these annuity contracts are treated as general account products. Institutional Income Annuities General account contracts that are guaranteed payout annuities purchased for employees upon retirement or termination of employment. They can be life or non-life contingent non-participating contracts which do not provide for any loan or cash surrender value and, with few exceptions, do not permit future considerations. Tort Settlements Structured settlement annuities are customized annuities designed to serve as an alternative to a lump sum payment in a lawsuit initiated because of personal injury, wrongful death, or a workers compensation claim or other claim for damages. Surrenders are generally not allowed, although commutations are permitted in certain circumstances. Guaranteed payments consist of life contingent annuities, term certain annuities and lump sums. 8 Table of Contents Capital Markets Investment Products Funding agreement-backed notes are part of medium term note programs, under which funding agreements are issued to special-purpose trusts that issue marketable notes in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. The proceeds of these note issuances are used to acquire a funding agreement with matching interest and maturity payment terms from certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. The notes are underwritten and marketed by major investment banks broker-dealer operations and are sold to institutional investors. Funding agreement-backed commercial paper is issued by a special purpose limited liability company which deposits the proceeds under a master funding agreement issued to it by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). The commercial paper is issued in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, receives the same short-term credit rating as MLIC and is marketed by major investment banks broker-dealer operations. Through the Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) advance program, certain of our insurance subsidiaries are members of regional FHLBs and issue funding agreements to their respective FHLBs. Through the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ( Farmer Mac ) program, MLIC has issued funding agreements to a subsidiary of Farmer Mac. Other Products and Services Specialized life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance nonqualified benefit programs for executives. Property Casualty Our Property Casualty business offers personal lines property and casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability insurance. Major Products Personal Auto Insurance Provides coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles, trailers, liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and comprehensive insurance. Homeowners Insurance Provides protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy. Operations Sales Distribution In the U.S., we market our products and services through various distribution channels. Our Group Benefits and RIS products are sold via sales forces primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property and casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees at their employer s worksite. Personal and commercial lines property and casualty insurance products are also marketed and sold to individuals and small business owners by independent agents and property and casualty specialists through a direct marketing channel. Group Benefits Distribution We distribute Group Benefits products and services through a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing representatives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. In addition, voluntary products are sold by specialists. Employers have been emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products. We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand opportunities to market and distribute Group Benefits products and services. We also sell our Group Benefits products and services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups and provide life and dental coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government. 9 Table of Contents Retirement and Income Solutions Distribution We distribute RIS products and services through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers. We may sell products directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries. Property Casualty Distribution We market and sell Property Casualty products through independent agents, property and casualty specialists and brokers. We are a leading provider of personal lines property and casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer s worksite. Marketing representatives market personal lines property and casualty insurance products to employers through a variety of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees, enabling them to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone. Asia Product Overview Our Asia segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as to other institutions, and their respective employees. Major Products Life Insurance Provides whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products. Accident Health Insurance Provides a full range of accident health products, including medical reimbursement, hospitalization, cancer, critical illness, disability, income protection, personal accident coverage and group health products. Retirement and Savings Provides both fixed and variable annuities, as well as regular savings products. Operations We operate in 10 jurisdictions throughout Asia, with our largest operation in Japan. We also have an innovation center in Singapore and a data analytics center of excellence in Malaysia. S ee Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company's definitive agreement to sell its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, MetLife Limited and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of Hong Kong Limited (collectively, MetLife Hong Kong ). Sales Distribution Our Asia operations are geographically diverse encompassing both developed and emerging markets. We market our products and services through a range of proprietary and third-party distribution channels. In Japan, our digitally-enabled face-to-face channels, along with bancassurance and direct marketing, continue to be critical to our overall distribution strategy. Our competitive advantage in bancassurance is based on robust distribution relationships with Japan s mega banks, trust banks and various regional banks. The direct marketing channel focuses on providing accident health solutions to customers using a mix of online-to-offline and online binding distribution modes. Outside of Japan, our distribution strategies vary by market and leverage a combination of career and independent agencies, bancassurance and direct marketing (including inbound and outbound telemarketing, online lead generation and sales). Our expertise in direct marketing is supported by our proprietary data analytics center of excellence in Malaysia that generates customer insights and improves lead management. In select markets, we also use independent brokers and our employee sales force to sell group products. 10 Table of Contents Latin America Product Overview Our Latin America segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as to other institutions, and their respective employees. Major Products Life Insurance Provides whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products. Retirement and Savings Provides fixed annuities and pension products. Fixed income annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Our savings oriented pension products are offered under a mandatory privatized social security system. Accident Health Insurance Provides group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, medical reimbursement, and medical coverage for serious medical conditions, as well as dental products. Credit Insurance Provides policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. Operations In Latin America, our largest operations are in Mexico and Chile. Sales Distribution In Latin America, we market our products and services through a multi-channel distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development. The region has an exclusive and captive agency distribution network which also sells a variety of individual life, accident health, and pension products. In the direct marketing channel, we work with sponsors and telesales representatives selling mainly accident health and individual life products directly to consumers. We also work with brokers and independent agents with regard to sales of group and individual life, accident health, group medical, dental and pension products, and worksite marketing. 11 Table of Contents EMEA Product Overview Our EMEA segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as to other institutions, and their respective employees. Major Products Life Insurance Provides both traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole and term life, endowments and variable life products, as well as group term life programs in most markets. Accident Health Insurance Provides individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we provide individual and group major medical coverage in select markets. Retirement and Savings Provides fixed annuities and pension products, including group pension programs in select markets. Credit Insurance Provides policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. Operations We operate in many countries across EMEA, with our largest operations in Turkey, the Gulf region and Poland. Our EMEA operations are geographically diverse encompassing both developed (Western Europe) and emerging (Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) markets. In more mature markets, we are a niche player with a very focused strategy on our preferred market segments. We have strong market presence in emerging markets leveraging a multi-channel distribution strategy. Sales Distribution Our businesses in EMEA employ a multi-channel distribution strategy, including captive and independent agency, bancassurance, employee benefits and direct-to-consumer distribution channels. MetLife Holdings Product Overview Our MetLife Holdings segment consists of operations relating to products and businesses, previously included in MetLife s former retail business, that we no longer actively market in the United States, such as variable, universal, term and whole life insurance, variable, fixed and index-linked annuities, and long-term care insurance, as well as the assumed variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan. 12 Table of Contents Major Products Variable, Universal and Term Life Insurance These life products are similar to those offered by our Group Benefits business, except that these products were historically marketed to individuals through various retail distribution channels. For a description of these products, see U.S. Product Overview Group Benefits. Whole Life Insurance Provides a benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Whole life insurance includes policies that