Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Consolidated Financial Statements 55 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 60 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 104 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B. Other Information 107 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 108 Item 11. Executive Compensation 108 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 108 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 108 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 108 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 109 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 Signatures 117 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS MGM Resorts International is referred to as the Company, MGM Resorts, or the Registrant, and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as we, us or our. MGM China Holdings Limited together with its subsidiaries is referred to as MGM China. Except where the context indicates otherwise, MGP refers to MGM Growth Properties LLC together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1986 that acts largely as a holding company and, through subsidiaries, owns and operates integrated casino, hotel, and entertainment resorts across the United States and in Macau. We believe we own or invest in several of the finest casino resorts in the world and we continually reinvest in our resorts to maintain our competitive advantage. We make significant investments in our resorts through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities. We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. Ensuring our resorts are the premier resorts in their respective markets requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. MGM Growth Properties LLC ( MGP ), is a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. Substantially all of its assets are owned by and substantially all of its businesses are conducted through its subsidiary MGM Growth Properties Operating Partnership LP (the Operating Partnership ). As of December 31, 2019, pursuant to a master lease agreement between a subsidiary of the Company and a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, we lease the real estate assets of The Mirage, Mandalay Bay, Luxor, New York-New York, Park MGM, Excalibur, The Park, Gold Strike Tunica, MGM Grand Detroit, Beau Rivage, Borgata, Empire City, MGM National Harbor, and MGM Northfield. See Note 1 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding MGP and the Operating Partnership, which we consolidate in our financial statements, and Note 18 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding the master lease with MGP. As further discussed below, pursuant to a lease agreement, we lease the real estate assets of Bellagio from a venture that we formed with Blackstone Real Estate Trust, Inc. ( BREIT ). See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding the lease with BREIT. Business Developments In August 2016, we acquired the remaining 50% ownership interest in Borgata, at which time Borgata became a wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary of ours. Subsequently, MGP acquired Borgata s real property from us and Borgata was added to the existing master lease between us and MGP. In December 2016, we opened MGM National Harbor and, in October 2017, MGP also acquired the long-term leasehold interest and real property associated with MGM National Harbor from us and MGM National Harbor was added to the existing master lease between us and MGP. In February 2018, we opened MGM Cotai, an integrated casino, hotel and entertainment resort on the Cotai Strip in Macau, and in August 2018, we opened MGM Springfield in Springfield, Massachusetts. In July 2018, MGP acquired the membership interests of Northfield Park Associates, LLC ( Northfield ), an Ohio limited liability company that owned the real estate assets and operations of the Hard Rock Rocksino Northfield Park ( Northfield Acquisition ). In April 2019, we acquired the membership interests of Northfield from MGP and MGP retained the associated real estate assets. We then rebranded the property to MGM Northfield Park, which was then added to the existing master lease between us and MGP. In January 2019, we acquired the real property and operations associated with Empire City Casino's racetrack and casino ("Empire City"). Subsequently, MGP acquired Empire City s developed real property from us and Empire City was then added to the existing master lease between us and MGP. In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the existing master lease between us and MGP with respect to investments made by us related to the Park MGM and NoMad Las Vegas property (the Park MGM Lease Transaction ). Additionally, in November 2019, we formed a venture (the Bellagio BREIT Venture ) with BREIT, which acquired the Bellagio real estate assets from us and leased such assets back to us pursuant to a long-term lease agreement (the Bellagio Sale-Leaseback Transaction ). The lease has an initial term of thirty years with the potential to extend for two ten year terms thereafter and provides for an initial rent of $245 million, escalating annually at a rate of 2% per annum for the first ten years and thereafter equal to 1 the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year subject to a cap of 3% during the 11th through 20th years and 4% thereafter. In addition, the lease obligates us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues at the property on capital expenditures and that we comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, would require us to maintain cash security or a letter of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to rent for the succeeding two year period. We received $4.25 billion consideration for the sale, which consisted of a 5% equity interest in the venture with the remaining consideration of approximately $4.2 billion in cash. We also provide a shortfall guarantee of the principal amount of indebtedness of Bellagio BREIT Venture s $3.01 billion of debt (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon) . In December 2019, we completed the sale of Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land for $825 million, which consisted of $662.5 million paid in cash and a secured note due 2024 with a face value of $162.5 million and fair value of $133.7 million. On February 14, 2020, we completed a series of transactions (collectively the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction ) pursuant to which the real estate assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay (including Mandalay Place) were contributed to a newly formed entity ( MGP BREIT Venture ), owned 50.1% by the Operating Partnership and 49.9% by a subsidiary of BREIT. In exchange for the contribution of the real estate assets, MGM and MGP received total consideration of $4.6 billion, which was comprised of $2.5 billion of cash, $1.3 billion of the Operating Partnership s secured indebtedness assumed by MGP BREIT Venture, and the Operating Partnership s 50.1% equity interest in the MGP BREIT Venture. In addition, the Operating Partnership issued approximately 3 million Operating Partnership units to us representing 5% of the equity value of MGP BREIT Venture. In connection with the transactions, we provided a shortfall guaranty of the principal amount of indebtedness of the MGP BREIT Venture (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon). On the closing date, BREIT also purchased approximately 5 million MGP Class A shares for $150 million. In connection with the transactions, MGP BREIT Venture entered into a lease with us for the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas. The lease provides for a term of thirty years with two ten-year renewal options and has an initial annual base rent of $292 million, escalating annually at a rate of 2% per annum for the first fifteen years and thereafter equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year subject to a cap of 3%. In addition, the lease will require us to spend 3.5% of net revenues over a rolling five-year period at the properties on capital expenditures and for us to comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, will require us to maintain cash security or provide one or more letters of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to the rent for the succeeding one-year period. In connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, the existing master lease with MGP was modified to remove the Mandalay Bay property and the annual rent under the MGP master lease was reduced by $133 million. Also, on January 14, 2020, we, the Operating Partnership, and MGP entered into an agreement for the Operating Partnership to waive its right to issue MGP Class A shares, in lieu of cash, to us in connection with us exercising our right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem the Operating Partnership units we hold, at a price per unit equal to a 3% discount to the applicable cash amount as calculated in accordance with the operating agreement. The waiver terminates on the earlier of 24 months following the closing of the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction and us receiving cash proceeds of $1.4 billion as consideration for the redemption of our Operating Partnership units. Resort Operations General Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to fund capital expenditures, provide excess cash flow for future development, acquisitions or investments, and repay debt financings. Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature as all of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of Empire City Casino which operates 20 hours a day, every day of the year. Our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us. Other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or leased to third parties. We utilize third-party management for specific expertise in operations of restaurants and nightclubs. We lease space to retail and food and beverage operators, particularly for branding opportunities. As of December 31, 2019, we have three reportable segments: Las Vegas Strip Resorts, Regional Operations, and MGM China. 2 Las Vegas Strip Resorts and Regional Operations Las Vegas Strip Resorts. Las Vegas Strip Resorts consists of the following casino resorts: Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas (including The Signature), Mandalay Bay (including Delano and Four Seasons), The Mirage, Luxor, New York-New York (including the Park), Excalibur, Park MGM (including NoMad Las Vegas) and Circus Circus Las Vegas (until the sale of such property in December 2019). Regional Operations. Regional Operations consists of the following casino resorts: MGM Grand Detroit in Detroit, Michigan Beau Rivage in Biloxi, Mississippi Gold Strike Tunica in Tunica, Mississippi Borgata in Atlantic City, New Jersey MGM National Harbor in Prince George s County, Maryland MGM Springfield in Springfield, Massachusetts Empire City in Yonkers, New York (upon its acquisition in January 2019) and MGM Northfield Park in Northfield Park, Ohio (upon MGM s acquisition of the operations from MGP in April 2019). Over half of the net revenue from our domestic resorts is derived from non-gaming operations, including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other non-gaming amenities. We market to different customers and utilize our significant convention and meeting facilities to allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes which also leads to better labor utilization. Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities. Our casino operations feature a variety of slots, table games, and race and sports book wagering. In addition, we offer our premium players access to high-limit rooms and lounge experiences where players may enjoy an upscale atmosphere. MGM China We own approximately 56% of MGM China, which owns MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. ( MGM Grand Paradise ), the Macau company that owns and operates the MGM Macau and MGM Cotai casino resorts and the related gaming subconcession and land concessions. We believe our ownership interest in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster future growth and profitability. Macau is the world s largest gaming destination in terms of revenue and we expect future growth in the Asian gaming market to drive additional visitation at MGM Macau and MGM Cotai. Our current MGM China operations relate to MGM Macau and MGM Cotai, discussed further below. MGM China s revenues are generated primarily from gaming operations which are conducted under a gaming subconcession held by MGM Grand Paradise. The Macau government has granted three gaming concessions and each of these concessionaires has granted a subconcession. The MGM Grand Paradise gaming subconcession was granted by Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A., which expires in 2022. The Macau government currently prohibits additional concessions and subconcessions, but does not place a limit on the number of casinos or gaming areas operated by the concessionaires and subconcessionaires, though additional casinos require government approval prior to commencing operations. Corporate and Other We have additional business activities including our investments in unconsolidated affiliates, and certain other corporate and management operations. CityCenter Holdings, LLC ( CityCenter ) is our most significant unconsolidated affiliate, which we also manage for a fee. See Note 17 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for detailed financial information about our segments. 3 Our Operating Resorts We have provided certain information below about our resorts as of December 31, 2019. Number of Approximate Guestrooms Casino Square Gaming Name and Location and Suites Footage (1) Slots (2) Tables (3) Las Vegas Strip Resorts: Bellagio 3,933 155,000 1,692 147 MGM Grand Las Vegas (4) 6,071 169,000 1,553 128 Mandalay Bay (5) 4,750 152,000 1,232 71 The Mirage 3,044 94,000 1,195 75 Luxor 4,397 101,000 1,049 53 Excalibur 3,981 94,000 1,161 50 New York-New York 2,024 81,000 1,139 62 Park MGM (6) 2,898 66,000 914 66 Subtotal 31,098 912,000 9,935 652 Regional Operations: MGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan) (7) 400 127,000 3,205 134 Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi) 1,740 87,000 1,811 81 Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi) 1,133 48,000 1,183 68 Borgata (Atlantic City, New Jersey) 2,767 160,000 2,859 188 MGM National Harbor (Prince George's County, Maryland) (8) 308 146,000 3,137 161 MGM Springfield (Springfield, Massachusetts) (9) 240 109,000 1,814 79 MGM Northfield Park (Northfield, Ohio) 73,000 2,200 Empire City (Yonkers, New York) 137,000 4,671 Subtotal 6,588 887,000 20,880 711 MGM China: MGM Macau 55.95% owned (Macau S.A.R.) 582 307,000 1,085 290 MGM Cotai 55.95% owned (Macau S.A.R.) 1,390 298,000 1,154 262 Subtotal 1,972 605,000 2,239 552 Other Operations: CityCenter 50% owned (Las Vegas, Nevada) (10) 5,499 139,000 1,492 126 Subtotal 5,499 139,000 1,492 126 Grand total 45,157 2,543,000 34,546 2,041 (1) Casino square footage is approximate and includes the gaming floor, race and sports, high limit areas and casino specific walkways, and excludes casino cage and other non-gaming space within the casino area. ( 2 ) Includes slot machines, video poker machines and other electronic gaming devices. ( 3 ) Includes blackjack ( 21 ), baccarat, craps, roulette and other table games does not include poker. ( 4 ) Includes 1,078 rooms at The Signature at MGM Grand Las Vegas. ( 5 ) Includes 1,117 rooms at the Delano and 424 rooms at the Four Seasons Hotel. ( 6 ) Includes 293 rooms at NoMad Las Vegas. ( 7 ) Our local investors have an ownership interest of approximately 3% of MGM Grand Detroit. ( 8 ) Our local investors have a non-voting economic interest in MGM National Harbor. Refer to Note 2 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further description of such interest. ( 9 ) Our local investor has a 1% ownership interest in MGM Springfield. ( 1 0 ) Includes Aria with 4,004 rooms. Vdara includes 1,495 condo-hotel units, which are predominantly utilized as company-owned hotel rooms. The other 50% of CityCenter is owned by Infinity World Development Corp. 4 Customers and Competition Our casino resorts operate in highly competitive environments. We compete against gaming companies, as well as other hospitality companies in the markets in which we operate, neighboring markets, and in other parts of the world, including non-gaming resort destinations such as Hawaii. Our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, online gambling and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and internationally. For further discussion of the potential impact of competitive conditions on our business, see Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business. We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our primary methods of successful competition include: Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets and operating at superior sites within those markets Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms, state-of-the-art convention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who provide superior customer service Providing unique, must-see entertainment attractions and Developing distinctive and memorable marketing, promotional and customer loyalty programs. Las Vegas Strip Resorts and Regional Operations Our customers include premium gaming customers leisure and wholesale travel customers business travelers, and group customers, including conventions, trade associations, and small meetings. We have a complete portfolio of resorts which appeal to the upper end of each market segment and also cater to leisure and value-oriented tour and travel customers. Many of our resorts have significant convention and meeting space which we utilize to drive business to our resorts during mid-week and off-peak periods. Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel casinos in the Las Vegas area, including major hotel casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major hotel casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the Las Vegas Strip, and several major hotel casinos elsewhere in the Las Vegas area. Our Las Vegas Strip Resorts also compete, in part, with each other. Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or have plans to expand their capacity or construct new resorts in Las Vegas. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas. Outside Nevada, our resorts primarily compete with other hotel casinos in their markets and for customers in surrounding regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success. In addition, we compete with gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. MGM China The three primary customer bases in the Macau gaming market are VIP gaming operations, main floor gaming operations and slot machine operations. VIP gaming play is sourced both internally and externally. Externally sourced VIP gaming play is obtained through external gaming promoters who assist VIP players with their travel and entertainment arrangements. Gaming promoters are compensated through payment of revenue-sharing arrangements and rolling chip turnover-based commissions. In-house VIP players also typically receive a commission based on the program in which they participate. Unlike gaming promoters and in-house VIP players, main floor players do not receive commissions. The profit contribution from the main floor gaming operations exceeds the VIP gaming operations due to commission costs paid to gaming promoters. We offer amenities to attract players such as premium gaming lounges and stadium-style electronic table games terminals, which include both table games and slots to create a dedicated exclusive gaming space for premium main floor players use, as well as non-gaming amenities, such as The Mansion and Mansion One to attract ultra-high end customers. VIP gaming at MGM China is conducted by the use of special purpose nonnegotiable gaming chips. Gaming promoters purchase these nonnegotiable chips and in turn they sell these chips to their players. The nonnegotiable chips allow us to track the amount of wagering conducted by each gaming promoters clients in order to determine VIP gaming play. Gaming promoter commissions are based on a percentage of the gross table games win or a percentage of the table games turnover they generate. They also receive a complimentary allowance based on a percentage of the table games turnover they generate, which can be applied to hotel rooms, food and beverage and other discretionary customers-related expenses. Gaming promoter commissions are recorded as a reduction of casino revenue. In-house VIP commissions are based on a percentage of rolling chip turnover and are recorded as a reduction of casino revenue. 5 Our key competitors in Macau include five other gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. If the Macau government were to grant additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, we face competition at our Macau and Cotai properties from concessionaires who have expanded their operations, primarily on the Cotai Strip. We encounter competition from major gaming centers located in other areas of Asia and around the world including, but not limited to, Singapore, South Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, the Philippines, Australia, and Las Vegas. Marketing Our marketing efforts are conducted through various means, including our loyalty programs. We advertise on radio, television, internet and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the United States and overseas, as well as by direct mail, email and through the use of social media. We also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major U.S. and foreign cities. Our direct marketing efforts utilize advanced analytic techniques that identify customer preferences and help predict future customer behavior, allowing us to make more relevant offers to customers, influence incremental visits, and help build lasting customer relationships. M life Rewards, our customer loyalty program, is a tiered program and allows customers to qualify for benefits across our participating resorts and in both gaming and non-gaming areas, encouraging customers to keep their total spend within our casino resorts. We also offer the Golden Lion Club for gaming focused customers, in addition to M life Rewards, at MGM China. The structured rewards systems based on member value and tier level ensure that customers can progressively access the full range of services that the resorts provide. Our loyalty programs focus on building a rewarding relationship with our customers, encouraging members to increase both visitation and spend. Strategy We strive to be the recognized global leader in entertainment and hospitality, embracing innovation and diversity to inspire excellence. The quality of our resorts and amenities can be measured by our success in winning numerous awards, both domestic and globally, including several Four and Five Diamond designations from the American Automobile Association as well as multiple Four and Five Star designations from Forbes Travel Guide, as well as numerous certifications of our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts. Our strategic objectives include: Operational enhancements. Drive continuous improvements in operational performance to support enterprise-wide increases in revenue, market share, cash flow, and margins Financial strength. Accelerate financial performance through optimal capital structure and disciplined investment of cash flows Corporate social responsibility. Continue to solidify the Company s reputation as a global leader in the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility Geographic expansion. Execute a targeted approach to domestic and international expansion to increase global brand presence and Business model innovation. Explore the evolution of the existing business model into new lines of business and key adjacencies. In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending on strategic developments or initiatives and repaying long-term debt or returning capital to shareholders. We believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide profitable returns. We regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets. Opportunities we evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities in Nevada, or in states other than Nevada, or outside of the United States, accessing new markets for sports and interactive, as well as online gaming. We leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. We feel that several of our brands are well-suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. We may undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties. During 2019, we launched the ( MGM 2020 Plan ), a portfolio of Adjusted EBITDAR (as defined herein) improvement initiatives that yielded over $130 million of Adjusted EBITDAR uplift in 2019. We expect to exceed $200 million by the end of 2020 compared to 2018 results. The initiatives are primarily comprised of labor, sourcing and revenue initiatives. We have continued to invest in our operating model by expanding the footprint of our Centers of Excellence and enabling best in class operations through adjustments within corporate and property business units. As part of the second phase of our MGM 2020 Plan, we expect to invest in our digital transformation to drive customer-centric strategy for revenue growth. In addition, we have continued to focus on key growth opportunities to develop an integrated resort in Japan and also continued investments in sports betting through our venture, Roar Digital LLC. 6 Technology We utilize technology to maximize revenue and to drive efficiency in our operations. Additionally, technology is core to our ability to provide an enhanced customer and employee experience. We believe that digital platforms and customer experiences are critical to differentiation in our marketplace and are critical components to drive growth in our business. While we continue to automate various aspects of operations in an effort to control costs, we are also investing in infrastructure and platforms unique to MGM such as self-service technology, advanced pricing systems and a host of other platform-based customer and employee services. Our team of world class product leaders and technologists leverage the newest advancements in technology including cloud, advanced analytics, and other methods to ensure speed to market and security of our platforms. For example, our commerce and digital platforms provide our customers the ability to create an itinerary of experiences including self-service booking of accommodations, dining and entertainment, with pricing options unique and specific to them based on their relationship or loyalty status with us. We expect continued and incremental investment in this area as part of the second phase of our MGM 2020 Plan. Commitment to Employees We believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees are a primary success factor in the hospitality industry. Therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting, training, motivating and retaining exceptional employees, and we seek to hire and promote the strongest management team possible. We have numerous programs, both at the corporate and business unit level, designed to achieve these objectives. We believe in the importance of developing our employees through training and advanced education. Our Pathways Educational Program provides tuition reimbursement and our College Opportunity Program, in partner