Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 28 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. Reserved 34 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Consolidated Financial Statements 56 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 96 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 96 Item 9B. Other Information 97 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 97 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 98 Item 11. Executive Compensation 98 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 98 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 98 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 98 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 99 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 104 Signatures 105 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS MGM Resorts International is referred to as the Company, MGM Resorts, or the Registrant, and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as we, us or our. MGM China Holdings Limited together with its subsidiaries is referred to as MGM China. Except where the context indicates otherwise, MGP refers to MGM Growth Properties LLC together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1986 that acts largely as a holding company and, through subsidiaries, is a global gaming and entertainment company with domestic and international locations featuring best-in-class hotels and casinos, state-of-the-art meeting and conference spaces, incredible live and theatrical entertainment experiences, and an extensive array of restaurant, nightlife and retail offerings, and sports betting and online gaming operations. We believe we operate several of the finest casino properties in the world and we continually reinvest in our properties to maintain our competitive advantage. We make significant investments in our properties through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities. We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. Ensuring our properties are the premier resorts in their respective markets requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. We also believe that through our online gaming operations, we can create a scaled global online gaming business. As of December 31, 2023, we operate 16 domestic casino properties and, through our 56% controlling interest in MGM China Holdings Limited (together with its subsidiaries, MGM China ), which owns MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. ( MGM Grand Paradise ), operate two casino properties in Macau. We also have global online gaming operations through our consolidated subsidiary LV Lion Holding Limited ( LeoVegas ) and our unconsolidated 50% owned venture, BetMGM, LLC ( BetMGM ). We also have a 50% ownership interest in Osaka IR KK, an unconsolidated affiliate, which plans to develop an integrated resort in Osaka, Japan. We lease the real estate assets of our domestic properties pursuant to triple-net lease agreements, as further discussed in Note 11. In recent years, in furtherance of our vision to become the world s premier gaming entertainment company, we have implemented an asset-light business model, which has involved a comprehensive review of our owned real estate assets to find opportunities to monetize those assets efficiently and allow unlocked capital to be redeployed towards balance sheet improvements, new growth opportunities, and to return value to our shareholders. At the same time, we have continued to focus on key growth opportunities that align with our vision, particularly by investing in U.S. online sports betting and iGaming through BetMGM, acquiring LeoVegas to expand our global online presence, expanding our digital capabilities, and seeking to diversify our Asia operations with development efforts in Japan. As part of that business strategy, we have sought and executed on opportunities to invest in our growth areas, divest our real estate assets, and acquire, or enter into venture transactions, with respect to online gaming and the operations of integrated casino, hotel, and entertainment properties. For additional information relating to our acquisitions, divestitures, venture transactions, and other arrangements made in furtherance of our business strategy, see Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Resort Operations General Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely on the ability of our properties to generate operating cash flow to fund capital expenditures, provide excess cash flow for future development, acquisitions or investments, and repay debt financings. Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature as all of our casino properties typically operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of Empire City, which operates 20 hours a day, every day of the year, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, Far East 1 baccarat volumes, the timing of entertainment and sports events, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Lunar New Year. Our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us. Other amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or leased to third parties. We also lease space to third-party retail and food and beverage operators, particularly for branding opportunities. As of December 31, 2023, we have three reportable segments: Las Vegas Strip Resorts, Regional Operations, and MGM China, as generally described below. See Note 17 for detailed financial information about our reportable segments. Las Vegas Strip Resorts and Regional Operations Las Vegas Strip Resorts. Las Vegas Strip Resorts consists of the following casino resorts: Aria (including Vdara) (upon its acquisition in September 2021), Bellagio, The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas ( The Cosmopolitan ) (upon its acquisition in May 2022), MGM Grand Las Vegas (including The Signature), Mandalay Bay (including Delano and Four Seasons), The Mirage (until its disposition in December 2022), Luxor, New York-New York (including The Park), Excalibur, and Park MGM (including NoMad Las Vegas). Regional Operations. Regional Operations consists of the following casino properties: MGM Grand Detroit in Detroit, Michigan; Beau Rivage in Biloxi, Mississippi; Gold Strike Tunica in Tunica, Mississippi (until its disposition in February 2023); Borgata in Atlantic City, New Jersey; MGM National Harbor in Prince George s County, Maryland; MGM Springfield in Springfield, Massachusetts; Empire City in Yonkers, New York; and MGM Northfield Park in Northfield Park, Ohio. Over half of the net revenue from our Las Vegas Strip Resorts is typically derived from non-gaming operations, including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other non-gaming amenities and the majority of the net revenue from our Regional Operations is typically derived from gaming operations. Our long-term strategy continues to be to market to different customers and utilize our significant convention and meeting facilities to allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes, which also leads to better labor utilization. Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our properties, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities. Our casino operations feature a variety of slots and table games. In addition, we provide our premium players access to high-limit rooms and lounge experiences where players may enjoy an upscale atmosphere. MGM China We own approximately 56% of MGM China, which owns MGM Grand Paradise, the Macau company that owns and operates the MGM Macau and MGM Cotai casino resorts and holds the related gaming concession and land concessions. We believe our ownership interest in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster future growth and profitability. Although visitation during 2021 and 2022 was significantly reduced by the novel 2019 coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic, visitation during 2023 rebounded, and we expect the long-term future growth of the Asian gaming market to drive additional visitation at MGM Macau and MGM Cotai. Our current MGM China operations relate to MGM Macau and MGM Cotai, discussed further below. MGM China s revenues are generated primarily from gaming operations, which are conducted under a gaming concession held by MGM Grand Paradise, a subsidiary of MGM China. Gaming in Macau is currently administered by the Macau Government through concessions awarded to six different concessionaires. Corporate and Other We have additional business activities including LeoVegas, our investments in unconsolidated affiliates, including BetMGM, and certain other corporate and management operations. Customers and Competition Our properties operate in highly competitive environments. We compete against gaming companies, as well as other hospitality companies in the markets in which we operate, neighboring markets, and in other parts of the world, including non-gaming resort destinations such as Hawaii. Our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, iGaming and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and internationally. For further discussion of the potential impact of competitive conditions on our business, see