Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Reserved 37 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Consolidated Financial Statements 62 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 67 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 107 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 108 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 108 Item 9B. Other Information 109 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 109 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 110 Item 11. Executive Compensation 110 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 110 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 110 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 110 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 111 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 118 Signatures 119 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS MGM Resorts International is referred to as the Company, MGM Resorts, or the Registrant, and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as we, us or our. MGM China Holdings Limited together with its subsidiaries is referred to as MGM China. Except where the context indicates otherwise, MGP refers to MGM Growth Properties LLC together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1986 that acts largely as a holding company and, through subsidiaries, owns and operates integrated casino, hotel, and entertainment resorts across the United States and in Macau. We believe we operate several of the finest casino resorts in the world and we continually reinvest in our resorts to maintain our competitive advantage. We make significant investments in our resorts through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities. We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. Ensuring our resorts are the premier resorts in their respective markets requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. MGM Growth Properties LLC ( MGP ), is a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. Substantially all of its assets are owned by and substantially all of its businesses are conducted through its subsidiary MGM Growth Properties Operating Partnership LP (the Operating Partnership ). As of December 31, 2021, we lease the real estate assets of The Mirage, Luxor, New York-New York, Park MGM, Excalibur, The Park, Gold Strike Tunica, MGM Grand Detroit, Beau Rivage, Borgata, Empire City, MGM National Harbor, MGM Northfield Park, and MGM Springfield pursuant to a master lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership. See Note 1 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding MGP and the Operating Partnership, which we consolidate in our financial statements, and Note 18 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding the master lease with MGP, which eliminates in consolidation. We lease the real estate assets of Bellagio pursuant to a lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and a venture that is 5% owned by such subsidiary and 95% owned by a subsidiary of Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust, Inc. ( BREIT , and such venture, the Bellagio BREIT Venture ). We lease the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas pursuant to a lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and a venture that is 50.1% owned by a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership and 49.9% owned by a subsidiary of BREIT (such venture, the MGP BREIT Venture ). We lease the real estate assets of Aria (including Vdara) pursuant to a lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and funds managed by The Blackstone Group Inc. ("Blackstone"). Refer to Note 11 for further discussion of these leases. Business Developments In recent years, in furtherance of our vision to be the world s premier gaming entertainment company, we have implemented an asset-light business model, which has involved a comprehensive review of our owned real estate assets to find opportunities to monetize those assets efficiently and allow unlocked capital to be redeployed towards balance sheet improvements, new growth opportunities, and to return value to our shareholders. At the same time, we have continued to focus on key growth opportunities that align with our vision, particularly by investing in U.S. online sports betting and iGaming through BetMGM, expanding our digital capabilities, and seeking to diversify our Asia operations with development efforts in Japan. As part of that business strategy, we have sought, and executed on, opportunities to invest in our growth areas, divest our real estate assets, and acquire, or enter into venture transactions with respect to the operations of integrated casino, hotel, and entertainment resorts, including through the following transactions: In July 2018, we and Entain plc ( Entain ) formed BetMGM, LLC ( BetMGM ), a venture that is owned 50% by each party. In connection with its formation, we provided BetMGM with exclusive access to all of our domestic landbased and online sports betting, major tournament poker, and online gaming operations and Entain provided BetMGM with exclusive access to its technology in the United States. In January 2019, we acquired the real property and operations associated with Empire City Casino's racetrack and casino ("Empire City") for total consideration of approximately $865 million. Subsequently, MGP acquired 1 Empire City s developed real property from us and Empire City was added to the master lease between us and MGP. Refer to Note 4 and Note 18 for additional information. In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the master lease between us and MGP with respect to improvements made by us related to the rebranding of the Park MGM and NoMad Las Vegas property (the Park MGM Transaction ). Refer to Note 18 for additional information on this transaction, which eliminates in consolidation. Additionally, in November 2019, Bellagio BREIT Venture was formed, which acquired the Bellagio real estate assets from us for total consideration of $4.25 billion, and leased such assets back to us pursuant to a lease agreement. Refer to Note 11 for additional information relating to the lease and Note 12 for the guarantee entered into in connection with the transaction. In December 2019, we completed the sale of Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land for $825 million. See Note 16 for additional information related to this transaction. On February 14, 2020, we completed a series of transactions (collectively the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction ) pursuant to which the real estate assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay (including Mandalay Place) were contributed to the newly formed MGP BREIT Venture in exchange for total consideration of $4.6 billion. See Note 1 for further discussion on the transaction and Note 12 for the guarantee entered into in connection with the transaction. In connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, MGP BREIT Venture entered into a lease with us for the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas. Additionally, the master lease with MGP was modified to remove the Mandalay Bay property and the annual cash rent under the MGP master lease was reduced by $133 million, as further discussed in Note 18. Refer to Note 11 for additional information relating to the lease. Also, on January 14, 2020, we, the Operating Partnership, and MGP entered into a waiver agreement pursuant to which approximately 30 million Operating Partnership units that we held were redeemed for $700 million on May 18, 2020 and approximately 24 million Operating Partnership units that we held were redeemed for $700 million on December 2, 2020. As a result, the waiver terminated in accordance with its terms. Refer to Note 1 for further information regarding this transaction, which eliminates in consolidation. On March 4, 2021, we delivered a notice of redemption to MGP covering approximately 37 million Operating Partnership units that we held which was satisfied with aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion, using cash on hand together with the proceeds from MGP's issuance of Class A shares. See Note 13 for information regarding this transaction, which eliminates in consolidation. On August 4, 2021, we entered into an agreement with VICI Properties, Inc. ( VICI ) and MGP whereby VICI will acquire MGP in a stock-for-stock transaction (such transaction, the VICI Transaction ). Pursuant to the agreement, MGP Class A shareholders will receive 1.366 shares of newly issued VICI stock in exchange for each MGP Class A share outstanding and we will receive 1.366 units of the new VICI operating partnership ( VICI OP ) in exchange for each Operating Partnership unit held by us. In connection with the exchange, VICI OP will redeem the majority of our VICI OP units for cash consideration of $4.4 billion. MGP s Class B share that is held by us will be cancelled. As part of the transaction, we will enter into an amended and restated master lease with VICI. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2022, subject to customary closing conditions, regulatory approvals, and approval by VICI stockholders (which was obtained on October 29, 2021). Refer to Note 1 for further information. On September 26, 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire the operations of The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas ("The Cosmopolitan") for cash consideration of $1.625 billion, subject to customary working capital adjustments. Additionally, the Company will enter into a lease agreement for the real estate assets of The Cosmopolitan. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2022, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Refer to Note 1 for further information. On September 27, 2021, we completed the acquisition of the 50% ownership interest in CityCenter Holdings, LLC ("CityCenter") held by Infinity World Development Corp ("Infinity World"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Dubai World, a Dubai, United Arab Emirates government decree entity, for cash consideration of $2.125 billion. Refer to Note 4 for additional information on this acquisition. 2 On September 28, 2021, we sold the real estate assets of Aria (including Vdara) to funds managed by Blackstone for cash consideration of $3.89 billion and entered into a lease through which the real property is leased back to a subsidiary of the Company. Refer to Note 11 for discussion of the lease agreement. On September 28, 2021, we announced that we, together with our venture partner, ORIX Corporation ("ORIX"), were selected by Osaka as the region s integrated resort partner. In December 2021, we and ORIX formed a venture, through which we will bid to develop one of Japan's first integrated resorts. On October 29, 2021, MGP acquired the real estate assets of MGM Springfield from us for cash consideration of $400 million and MGM Springfield was added to the MGP master lease between us and MGP through which MGP leases back the real property to a subsidiary of ours. Transactions with MGP, including transactions under the MGP master lease, have been eliminated in our consolidation of MGP. Refer to Note 18 for further discussion of the master lease with MGP. On December 13, 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell the operations of The Mirage to an affiliate of Seminole Hard Rock Entertainment, Inc. ("Hard Rock") for cash consideration of $ 1.075 billion, subject to certain purchase price adjustments. Upon closing, the master lease between us and VICI (or MGP in the event that the VICI Transaction is terminated) will be amended and restated to reflect a $90 million reduction in annual cash rent. The transaction is expected to close during the second half of 2022, subject to certain closing conditions, including, but not limited to, the consummation or termination of the VICI Transaction and receipt of regulatory approvals. Refer to Note 1 for further information. For additional information relating to our acquisitions, divestitures, venture transactions, and other arrangements, including those referred to above, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as the notes to our consolidated financial statements specified above. Financial Impact of COVID-19. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Description of our business and key performance indicators Financial Impact of COVID-19 for more information about the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and our recovery. For a discussion of the risks to our business resulting from COVID-19, see