ITEM 1. BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 27 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 28 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 29 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 33 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 33 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 33 PART II 34 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 34 ITEM 6. RESERVED 35 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 36 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 66 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 68 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 111 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 111 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 112 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 112 PART III 113 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 113 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 113 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 113 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 113 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 113 PART IV 114 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 114 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 120 SIGNATURES 121 Part I Item 1 Business PAR T I ITEM 1 BUSINESS General Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (the Company or Martin Marietta) is a natural resource-based building materials company. The Company supplies aggregates (crushed stone, sand and gravel) through its network of approximately 360 quarries, mines and distribution yards in 28 states, Canada and The Bahamas. In 2023, aggregates gross profit accounted for 68% of the Company s consolidated total gross profit. Martin Marietta also provides cement and downstream products, namely, ready mixed concrete, asphalt and paving services, in targeted markets where the Company has a leading aggregates position. The Company s heavy-side building materials are used in infrastructure, nonresidential and residential construction projects. Aggregates are also used in agricultural, utility and environmental applications and as railroad ballast. The aggregates, cement, ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations are reported collectively as the Building Materials business . The Company also operates a Magnesia Specialties business with production facilities in Michigan and Ohio. The Magnesia Specialties business produces magnesia-based chemical products that are used in industrial, agricultural and environmental applications. It also produces dolomitic lime sold primarily to customers for steel production and soil stabilization. Magnesia Specialties products are shipped to customers domestically and worldwide. On May 3, 2023, the Company divested its Stockton cement import terminal in California. On October 31, 2023, the Company divested the Tehachapi, California cement plant for $315.0 million in cash. In connection with the Tehachapi cement plant transaction, the Company recorded a $26.3 million pretax loss on divestiture in discontinued operations. Since October 1, 2021 and through their respective divestiture dates, the aforementioned California operations were classified as assets held for sale and reported as discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2023, the Company has largely concluded the planned asset sales from the 2021 Lehigh Hanson, Inc. West Region business (Lehigh West Region) acquisition. On January 16, 2024, the Company completed the acquisition of Albert Frei Sons, Inc., a leading aggregates producer in Colorado, securing more than 60 years (at 2023 production levels) of high-quality, hard rock reserves. This transaction enhances the Company's aggregates platform in the high-growth Denver metropolitan area. On February 9, 2024, the Company closed the sale of its South Texas cement business and certain of its related ready mixed concrete operations to CRH Americas Materials, Inc., a subsidiary of CRH plc, for $2.1 billion in cash. Specifically, the divested facilities included the Hunter cement plant in New Braunfels, Texas, related cement distribution terminals and 20 ready mixed concrete plants serving the Austin and San Antonio region. This divestiture optimizes the Company's portfolio and product mix and provides additional balance sheet flexibility to redeploy net proceeds into pure-play aggregates acquisitions. These operations are reported in the West Group and classified as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2023. On February 11, 2024, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 20 active aggregates operations in Alabama, South Carolina, South Florida, Tennessee, and Virginia from affiliates of Blue Water Industries LLC (BWI Southeast) for $2.05 billion in cash. The BWI Southeast acquisition complements Martin Marietta s existing geographic footprint in the dynamic southeast region by allowing the Company to expand into new growth platforms in target markets including Nashville and Miami. The transaction is expected to close during 2024, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Business Segment Information The Company conducts its Building Materials business through two reportable segments, organized by geography: East Group and West Group. The East Group provides aggregates and asphalt products. The West Group provides aggregates, cement, downstream products and paving services. The Company s Magnesia Specialties business is reported as a separate segment and includes its magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses. For more information on the organization and geographic area of the Company s business segments, see Note A: Accounting Policies and Note O: Segments of the Notes to Financial Statements of the Company s consolidated financial statements, which appear in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K), which information is incorporated by reference. Form 10-K Page 1 Part I Item 1 Business Building Materials Business The profitability of the Building Materials business, which serves customers in the construction marketplace, is sensitive to national, regional and local economic conditions and construction cyclicality, which are in turn affected by fluctuations in levels of public-sector infrastructure funding; interest rates; access to capital markets; and demographic, geographic, employment and population dynamics. The heavy-side construction business is conducted outdoors, as are much of the Building Materials business operations. Therefore, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes, and other weather-related conditions, including precipitation, flooding, hurricanes, snowstorms, extreme temperatures, wildfires, earthquakes and droughts, can significantly affect production schedules, shipments, costs, efficiencies and profitability. Generally, the financial results for the first and fourth quarters are subject to the impacts of winter weather, while the second and third quarters are subject to the impacts of heavy precipitation. The Building Materials business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with 36% of its 2023 aggregates shipments sold to contractors in connection with highway and other public infrastructure projects and the balance of its shipments sold primarily to contractors for nonresidential and residential construction projects. The Company believes the business mix of public sector-related shipments lessens the impacts of fluctuations in nonresidential and residential, or private-sector, construction spending. Funding of public infrastructure, historically the Company s largest end-use market, is discussed in greater detail under Building Materials Business Key Considerations Public Infrastructure in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Form 10-K. The Building Materials business covers a wide geographic area. The ten largest revenue-generating states (Texas, North Carolina, Colorado, California, Georgia, Minnesota, Arizona, Iowa, Florida and Indiana) accounted for 82% of the Building Materials business total revenues in 2023. The Building Materials business is accordingly affected by the economies in these regions and has been adversely affected in part by recessions and weaknesses in these economies from time to time and may be affected by a decline in economic conditions, such as recession, economic downturn or inflationary conditions in the future. In 2023, aggregates shipments decreased 4.3%, largely reflective of the Company's value-over-volume strategy and moderating demand resulting from the affordability-driven residential slowdown and a softening in warehouse and data center construction demand. Aggregates Aggregates, consisting of crushed stone, sand and gravel, are an engineered, granular material that is manufactured to specific sizes, grades and chemistry for use primarily in construction applications. The Company s operations consist primarily of open pit quarries; however, the Company is the largest operator of underground aggregates mines in the United States, with 14 active underground mines located in the East Group. Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively homogeneous deposits in certain areas of the United States. Proximity of quarry facilities to customers construction sites or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in competition for aggregates businesses. As a general rule, the distance truck shipments travel from an individual quarry is limited because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price of the product itself. The Company s distribution system mainly uses trucks, but also has access to rail and waterborne networks where the per-mile unit costs of transporting aggregates are lower. The Company s distribution network moves aggregates materials from certain domestic and offshore sources via its long-haul rail and waterborne distribution network, to markets where aggregates supply is limited. The Company s rail network primarily serves its Texas, Florida, Colorado and Gulf Coast markets, while the Company s locations in The Bahamas and Nova Scotia transport materials via oceangoing ships. The Company s strategic focus includes expanding inland and offshore capacity and acquiring distribution facilities and port locations to offload transported material. At December 31, 2023, the Company s aggregates distribution facilities consisted of 76 yards. The Company s rail-based distribution network, coupled with the extensive use of rail service, increases the Company s dependence on and exposure to railroad performance, including track congestion, crew availability, railcar availability, locomotive availability and the ability to negotiate favorable railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network also increases the Company s exposure to certain risks, including, among other items, meeting minimum tonnage requirements of shipping contracts, demurrage costs, fuel costs, ship availability and weather disruptions. The Company has long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport its aggregates to various coastal ports. Form 10-K Page 2 Part I Item 1 Business The Company generally acquires contiguous property around existing quarry locations. Such parcels can serve as buffer property or additional mineral reserves, assuming the underlying geology supports economical aggregates mining. In either instance, the acquisition of additional property around an existing quarry typically allows the expansion of the quarry footprint and extension of quarry life. Some locations having limited reserves may be unable to expand. Due to the nature of the indigenous aggregates supply in the midwestern United States, a long-term capital focus for the Company is underground limestone aggregates mines. Production costs are generally higher at underground mines than surface quarries since the depth of the aggregates deposits and the access to the reserves result in higher costs related to development, explosives and depreciation costs. However, these locations often possess marketplace transportation advantages that can lead to higher average selling prices than more distant surface quarries. The construction aggregates industry has been consolidating, and the Company has actively participated in the industry s consolidation. The Company s Board of Directors and management continue to review and monitor the Company s long-term strategic plans, commonly referred to as SOAR ( S trategic O perating A nalysis and R eview), which include assessing portfolio optimization strategies that include business combinations and arrangements with other companies engaged in similar businesses, investing in internal expansion projects in high-growth markets, divesting businesses or nonoperating assets that are not core or do not further management s strategy and pursuing new opportunities in the Company s existing markets or new markets. Acquisition opportunities include public companies, public company carve-outs and private sponsor-owned and family-owned businesses, as well as asset swaps and divestitures from companies executing their strategic plans, rationalizing non-core assets and repairing financially-constrained balance sheets. When acquired, new locations sometimes do not satisfy the Company s internal safety, maintenance, pit development or other standards, and may require additional investments before benefits of the acquisitions are fully realized. Management believes its aggregates reserves are sufficient to permit production at present operational levels for the foreseeable future. The Company does not anticipate any significant difficulty in accessing reserves used for production. The Company s aggregates reserves average approximately 75 years, based on the 2023 annual production level. However, certain locations may be subject to limited reserves and may not be able to expand. Moreover, environmental, zoning and land use regulations will likely make it harder for the Company to expand its existing quarries or develop new quarry operations. Although it cannot be predicted what policies will be adopted in the future by federal, state and local governmental bodies regarding these matters, the Company anticipates that future restrictions will likely make zoning and permitting more difficult, thereby potentially enhancing the value of the Company s existing mineral reserves. The Company generally sells its aggregates upon receipt of customer orders or requests. The Company generally maintains inventories of aggregates products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of customers. Cement and Downstream Operations Cement is the basic agent used to bind aggregates, sand and water in the production of ready mixed concrete. Similar to aggregates, cement is used in infrastructure projects, nonresidential and residential construction, and the railroad, agricultural, utility and environmental industries. Consequently, the cement industry is cyclical and dependent on the strength of the construction sector. At December 31, 2023, the Company had production facilities in Midlothian, Texas, south of Dallas/Fort Worth, and New Braunfels, Texas, north of San Antonio. These plants, which produce Portland and specialty cements, operated at 71% utilization in 2023. Clinker is the initial product in cement production, and the two Texas production facilities had a combined annual clinker capacity of 4.5 million tons in 2023. The Midlothian plant permit allows the Company to expand production by up to 0.8 million additional tons. The Company is currently undertaking a finishing capacity expansion project at the Midlothian plant, which is expected to be completed in mid-2024 and will provide 0.5 million tons of annual incremental cement capacity. Further, the Company has converted its plants to manufacture a less carbon-intensive Portland limestone cement, known as Type 1L, which has been approved by the Texas Department of Transportation. On February 9, 2024, the Company closed the sale of it South Texas cement business and related cement distribution terminals. This divestiture optimizes the Company's portfolio and product mix and provides additional balance sheet flexibility to redeploy net proceeds into pure-play aggregates acquisitions. Calcium carbonate in the form of limestone is the principal raw material used in the production of cement. The Company in 2023 owned more than 600 million tons of limestone reserves adjacent to its Texas cement production plants on Company-owned property. The cement grade limestone reserves at the Hunter production facility in New Braunfels, Texas, were included with the February 2024 divestiture to CRH Americas Materials, Inc. Management believes that its reserves of limestone are sufficient to permit production at its cement plants at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future. Form 10-K Page 3 Part I Item 1 Business Cement consumption is dependent on the time of year and prevalent weather conditions. According to the Portland Cement Association, nearly two-thirds of U.S. cement consumption occurs in the six months between May and October. Approximately 70% to 75% of all cement shipments are sent to ready mixed concrete operators. The remainder is shipped to manufacturers of concrete-related products, contractors, materials dealers and oil well/mining/drilling companies. The Company's cement operations generally deliver their products upon receipt of customer orders or requests. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers . Energy accounted for 18% of the cement total cost of revenues, excluding inventory change, in 2023. Therefore, cement profitability is affected by changes in energy prices and the available supply of these products. The Company currently has fixed-price supply contracts for portions of its natural gas, electricity and coal needs, but also consumes alternative fuel and petroleum coke. Further, profitability of the cement operations is also impacted by kiln maintenance, which typically is planned but requires a plant to be shut down for a period of time. Ready mixed concrete is measured in cubic yards and specifically batched or produced for customers construction projects and then typically transported by mixer trucks and poured at the project site. The aggregates used for ready mixed concrete is a washed material with limited amounts of fines (such as dirt and clay). As of December 31, 2023, the Company operated 82 ready mixed concrete plants in Arizona and Texas, of which 20 plants located in the Austin and San Antonio region are classified as assets held for sale. These 20 plants were subsequently divested on February 9, 2024. Asphalt is most commonly used in surfacing roads and parking lots and consists of liquid asphalt, or bitumen, the binding medium, and aggregates. Similar to ready mixed concrete, each asphalt batch is produced to customer specifications. As of December 31, 2023, the Company operated 38 asphalt plants in Arizona, California, Colorado and Minnesota. The Company also offers paving services in California and Colorado. Market dynamics for these downstream product lines include a highly competitive environment and lower barriers to entry compared with aggregates and cement. The cement and downstream operations results are affected by volatile factors, including energy-related costs, operating efficiencies and weather, to a greater extent than the Company s aggregates operations. Liquid asphalt and cement serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in prices for these raw materials directly affect the Company s operating results. Magnesia Specialties Business The Magnesia Specialties business produces and sells dolomitic lime from its Woodville, Ohio facility and manufactures magnesia-based chemical products for industrial, agricultural and environmental applications at its Manistee, Michigan facility. These magnesia-based chemical products have varying uses, including flame retardants, wastewater treatment, pulp and paper production and other environmental applications. In 2023, 66% of Magnesia Specialties total revenues were attributable to chemical products, 33% to lime, and 1% to stone sold as construction materials. Magnesia Specialties generally delivers its products upon receipt of customer orders or requests. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers. A significant portion of the 275,000-ton dolomitic lime capacity from a lime kiln at Woodville, Ohio is committed under a long-term supply contract. In 2023, 78% of the lime shipments in the Magnesia Specialties business was sold to third-party customers, while the remaining 22% was used internally as a raw material in making the business chemical products. Dolomitic lime products sold to external customers are used primarily by the steel industry. In 2023, 38% of the Magnesia Specialties total revenues were attributable to products used in the steel industry, primarily dolomitic lime. Accordingly, a portion of the revenues and profitability of the Magnesia Specialties business is affected by production and inventory trends in the steel industry. These trends are guided by the rate of consumer consumption, the flow of offshore imports and other economic factors. The dolomitic lime business runs most profitably at 70% or greater domestic steel capacity utilization. According to the Federal Reserve, domestic steel capacity utilization averaged 74% of capacity in 2023 versus 75% of capacity in 2022. In the Magnesia Specialties business, a significant portion of costs is of a fixed or semi-fixed nature. The production process requires the use of natural gas, coal and petroleum coke. Therefore, fluctuations in their pricing directly affect operating results. To help mitigate this risk, the Magnesia Specialties business has fixed-price agreements for approximately 81% of its 2024 coal, petroleum coke and natural gas needs. For 2023, the Company s average cost per MMBtu (1,000,000 British thermal units) of natural gas decreased 19% versus 2022. Form 10-K Page 4 Part I Item 1 Business Given high fixed costs, low capacity utilization can negatively affect the segment s results from operations. Management has shifted the strategic focus of the magnesia-based business to grow and diversify the specialty chemicals product portfolio to reliably produce at volume levels that support efficient operations. Accordingly, these products are less dependent on the steel industry than the dolomitic lime product line. Management expects future organic profit growth to result from increased pricing, commercialization of new products, entry into new or adjacent markets and optimization of overall product mix. The principal raw materials used in the Magnesia Specialties business are dolomitic limestone and magnesium-rich brine. Management believes that its reserves of dolomitic limestone and brine are sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future. The Magnesia Specialties business is highly dependent on rail transportation, particularly for movement of dolomitic lime from Woodville to Manistee and direct customer shipments of dolomitic lime and magnesia chemicals products from both Woodville and Manistee. The segment can be affected by the specific transportation and other risks and uncertainties outlined under Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Form 10-K. Patents and Trademarks As of January 31, 2024, the Company owns, has the right to use, or has pending applications for patents pending or granted by the United States and various countries and trademarks related to its business. The Company believes that its rights under its existing patents, patent applications and trademarks are of value to its operations, but no one patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks is material to the conduct of the Company s business as a whole. Customers The Company s products are sold principally to commercial customers in private industry. Although large amounts of construction materials are used in public works projects, relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county or municipal governments, or agencies thereof. No material part of the business as a whole, or of any segment of the Company, is dependent upon a single customer or upon a few customers. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the Company. Competition The nature of the Company s competition varies among its products due to the widely differing amounts of capital necessary to build and maintain production facilities. Crushed stone production from quarries or mines and sand and gravel production by dredging or otherwise are moderately capital intensive. Construction of cement production facilities is highly capital intensive and requires long lead times to complete engineering design, obtain regulatory permits, acquire equipment and construct a plant. Most domestic cement producers are owned by large foreign companies operating in multiple international markets. Many of these producers maintain the capability to import cement from foreign production facilities. Ready mixed concrete production requires relatively small amounts of capital to build a concrete batching plant and acquire delivery trucks. Accordingly, economics can lead to lower barriers to entry in some concrete markets. As a result, depending on the local market, the Company may face competition from small producers as well as large, vertically-integrated companies with facilities in many markets. The Company operates in a largely fragmented industry, including large, public companies and a large number of small, privately-held companies. Other publicly traded companies among the ten-largest U.S. aggregates producers include the following: Arcosa, Inc. CEMEX S.A.B. de C.V. CRH plc Heidelberg Materials AG Holcim Ltd. Knife River Corporation Summit Materials, Inc. Vulcan Materials Company Form 10-K Page 5 Part I Item 1 Business Due to the localized nature of the industry resulting from the high cost of transportation relative to the price of the product, the Building Materials business primarily operates in smaller distinct areas that can vary from one another. The Company believes that its ability to transport materials by rail and waterborne vessels has enhanced its ability to compete in the building materials industry. Capacity for cement plants is often stated in terms of clinker capacity. According to the Portland Cement Association, United States cement production is widely dispersed, with the top five companies collectively producing approximately 57% of U.S. clinker capacity. An estimated 85% of U.S. clinker capacity is owned by companies headquartered outside of the United States. The Company s cement operations also compete with imported cement because of the higher value of the product and the existence of major ports or terminals in Texas. The Company s ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations are also in markets with numerous operators, large and small. The Magnesia Specialties business competes with various companies in different geographic and product areas principally on the basis of quality, price, technological advances and technical support for its products. While the revenues of the Magnesia Specialties business in 2023 were predominantly domestic, a portion was derived from customers located outside the United States. Environmental and Governmental Regulations Overview The Company s operations are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations relating to zoning, land use, mining, air emissions (including carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases), water use, allocation and discharges, waste management, noise and dust exposure control, reclamation and other environmental, health and safety, and regulatory matters. Certain of the Company s operations may from time to time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for certain of the Company s operations, and such permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation. Environmental Compliance and Costs The Company regularly monitors and reviews its operations, procedures and policies for compliance with existing laws, rules and regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws and enforcement policies, new laws that are adopted and new laws that the Company anticipates will be adopted that could affect its operations, including with respect to climate change. The Company has a full-time team of environmental engineers and managers that perform these responsibilities. The direct costs of ongoing environmental compliance were approximately $45.4 million in 2023 and $35.6 million in 2022 and are related to the Company s environmental staff, ongoing monitoring costs for various matters (including those matters disclosed in this Form 10-K) and asset retirement costs. Capitalized costs related to environmental control facilities were $24.4 million in 2023 and are expected to be approximately $25.0 million in 2024 and $30.0 million in 2025. The Company s capital expenditures for environmental matters were not material to its results of operations or financial condition in 2023 and 2022. However, the Company s expenditures for environmental matters generally have increa