ITEM 1. BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 25 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 25 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 30 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 30 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 31 PART II 32 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 32 ITEM 6. RESERVED 33 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 34 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 69 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 70 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 115 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 115 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 116 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 116 PART III 117 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 117 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 117 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 117 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 117 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 117 PART IV 118 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 118 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 124 SIGNATURES 125 Part I Item 1 Business PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS General Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (the Company or Martin Marietta) is a natural resource-based building materials company. The Company supplies aggregates (crushed stone, sand and gravel) through its network of approximately 350 quarries, mines and distribution yards in 28 states, Canada and The Bahamas. In 2021, the aggregates product gross profit accounted for 67% of the Company s consolidated total product and services gross profit. Martin Marietta also provides cement and downstream products, namely, ready mixed concrete, asphalt and paving services, in markets that are naturally vertically integrated and where the Company has a leading aggregates position. The Company s heavy-side building materials are used in infrastructure, nonresidential and residential construction projects. Aggregates are also used in agricultural, utility and environmental applications and as railroad ballast. The aggregates, cement, ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations are reported collectively as the Building Materials business . The Company also operates a Magnesia Specialties business with production facilities in Michigan and Ohio. The Magnesia Specialties business produces magnesia-based chemical products that are used in industrial, agricultural and environmental applications. It also produces dolomitic lime sold primarily to customers for steel production and land stabilization. Magnesia Specialties products are shipped to customers domestically and worldwide. On October 1, 2021, the Company acquired the Lehigh Hanson West Region business (Lehigh West Region) for $2.28 billion in cash. The acquisition included a portfolio of 17 active aggregates quarries, two cement plants with related distribution terminals, and targeted downstream operations in California, Arizona, Nevada and Oregon. These operations provided a new upstream, materials-led growth platform across several of the nation s largest megaregions in California and Arizona, solidifying the Company s position as a leading coast-to-coast aggregates producer. The acquired cement plants, distribution terminals and California ready mixed concrete operations are classified as assets held for sale and discontinued operations as of December 31, 2021. The Lehigh West Region business is reported in the Company s West Group. On July 30, 2021, the Company acquired assets of Southern Crushed Concrete (SCC). SCC is a leading producer of recycled concrete in the Houston area, one of the country s largest aggregates markets. Recycled concrete is principally used as a base aggregates product in infrastructure, commercial and residential construction applications. SCC is reported in the Company s West Group. On April 30, 2021, the Company completed its acquisition of Tiller Corporation (Tiller), a leading aggregates and hot mix asphalt supplier in the Minneapolis/St. Paul area, a large and fast-growing midwestern metropolitan area. The Tiller acquisition complements the Company s existing product offerings in the surrounding areas. Additionally, Tiller sells asphalt solely as a materials provider and does not offer paving or other associated services. Tiller is reported in the Company s East Group. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY S BUSINESS PRIOR TO 2021, SEE THE INFORMATION APPEARING UNDER THE HEADING GENERAL INCLUDED IN PART I, ITEM 1 OF THE COMPANY S FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019, WHICH INFORMATION IS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Business Segment Information The Company conducts its Building Materials business through two reportable segments, organized by geography: East Group and West Group. The East Group provides aggregates and asphalt products only. The West Group provides aggregates, cement and downstream products. The ten largest revenue-generating states accounted for 84% of the Building Materials business total revenues in 2021: Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia, Minnesota, Iowa, Florida, South Carolina, Indiana and Maryland. The Company s Magnesia Specialties business is reported as a separate segment, which includes its magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses. For more information on the organization and geographic area of the Company s business segments, see Note A: Accounting Policies and Note P: Segments of the Notes to Financial Statements of the Company s consolidated financial statements, which appear in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K), which information is incorporated by reference. Building Materials Business The profitability of the Building Materials business, which serves customers in the construction marketplace, is sensitive to national, regional and local economic conditions and cyclical swings in construction spending, which are in turn affected by fluctuations in levels of public-sector infrastructure funding interest rates access to capital markets and demographic, SOAR to a Sustainable Future Form 10-K Page 1 Part I Item 1 Business geographic, employment and population dynamics. The heavy-side construction business is conducted outdoors , as are much of the Building Materials business s operations . Therefore, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes, and other weather-related conditions, including precipitation, flooding, hurricanes, snowstorms, extreme temperatures , wildfires , earthquakes and droughts, can significantly affect production schedules, shipments, costs, efficiencies and profitability. Generally, the financial results for the first and fourth quarters are subject to the impacts of winter weather, while the second and third quarters are subject to the impacts of heavy precipitation. The Building Materials business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with 34% of its 2021 organic aggregates shipments sold to contractors in connection with highway and other public infrastructure projects and the balance of its organic shipments sold primarily to contractors for nonresidential and residential construction projects. The Company also believes exposure to fluctuations in nonresidential and residential, or private-sector, construction spending is lessened by the business mix of public sector-related shipments. Funding of public infrastructure, historically the Company s largest end-use market, is discussed in greater detail under Building Materials Business Key Considerations Public Infrastructure in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of this Form 10-K. The Building Materials business covers a wide geographic area. The five largest revenue-generating states, determined by state of destination, (Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia and Minnesota) accounted for 68% of the Building Materials business total revenues by state of destination in 2021. The Building Materials business is accordingly affected by the economies in these regions and has been adversely affected in part by recessions and weaknesses in these economies from time to time. In 2020, the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic impacted the global economy. The Company, being considered an essential business, continued to operate but experienced a modest decline in aggregates shipments in 2020 due to a slowdown in overall construction activity and only modest growth in organic aggregates shipments in 2021. Aggregates Aggregates, consisting of crushed stone, sand and gravel, are an engineered, granular material that is manufactured to specific sizes, grades and chemistry for use primarily in construction applications. The Company s operations consist primarily of open pit quarries however, the Company is the largest operator of underground aggregates mines in the United States, with 14 active underground mines located in the East Group. Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively homogeneous deposits in certain areas of the United States. As a general rule, the distance covered by truck shipments from an individual quarry is limited because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price of the product itself. As described below, the Company s distribution system mainly uses trucks, but also has access to a waterborne network where the per-mile unit cost of transporting aggregates is much lower. In addition, acquisitions have enabled the Company to extend its customer base through increased access to rail transportation. Proximity of quarry facilities to customers construction sites or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in competition for aggregates businesses. The Company s distribution network moves aggregates materials from certain domestic and offshore sources via its long-haul rail and waterborne distribution network, to markets where aggregates supply is limited. The Company s rail network primarily serves its Texas, Florida, Colorado and Gulf Coast markets while the Company s locations in The Bahamas and Nova Scotia transport materials via oceangoing ships. The Company s strategic focus includes expanding inland and offshore capacity and acquiring distribution facilities and port locations to offload transported material. At December 31, 2021, the Company s aggregates distribution facilities consisted of 84 terminals. The long-haul distribution network can diversify market risk for locations that engage in long-haul transportation of their aggregates products. The risk of a downturn in one market may be somewhat mitigated by other markets served by the location, particularly where a producing quarry serves a local market and transports products via rail, water and/or truck to be sold in other markets. However, the Company s expansion of its rail-based distribution network, coupled with the extensive use of rail service, increases the Company s dependence on and exposure to railroad performance, including track congestion, crew availability, railcar availability, locomotive availability, and the ability to renegotiate favorable railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network also increases the Company s exposure to certain risks, including, among other items, meeting minimum tonnage requirements of shipping contracts, demurrage costs, fuel costs, ship availability and weather disruptions. The Company has long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport the Company s aggregates to various coastal ports. The Company generally acquires contiguous property around existing quarry locations. This property can serve as buffer property or additional mineral reserve capacity, assuming the underlying geology supports economical aggregates mining. In Form 10-K Page 2 SOAR to a Sustainable Future Part I Item 1 Business either instance, the acquisition of additional property around an existing quarry allows the expansion of the quarry footprint and extension of quarry life. Some locations having limited reserves may be unable to expand. A long-term capital focus for the Company, primarily in the midwestern United States due to the nature of its indigenous aggregates supply, is underground limestone aggregates mines. Production costs are generally higher at underground mines than surface quarries since the depth of the aggregates deposits and the access to the reserves result in higher costs related to development, explosives and depreciation costs. However, these locations often possess marketplace transportation advantages that can lead to higher average selling prices than more distant surface quarries. The construction aggregates industry has been consolidating, and the Company has actively participated in the industry s consolidation. When acquired, new locations sometimes do not satisfy the Company s internal safety, maintenance, pit development, or other standards, and may require additional resources before benefits of the acquisitions are fully realized. Acquisition opportunities include public and large private, family-owned businesses, as well as asset swaps and divestitures from companies executing their strategic plans, rationalizing non-core assets, and repairing financially-constrained balance sheets. The Company s Board of Directors and management continue to review and monitor the Company s long-term strategic plans, commonly referred to as SOAR (Strategic Operating Analysis and Review), which include assessing business combinations and arrangements with other companies engaged in similar businesses, increasing the Company s presence in its core businesses, investing in internal expansion projects in high-growth markets, and pursuing new opportunities related to the Company s existing markets. Environmental and zoning regulations have made it increasingly difficult for the aggregates industry to expand existing quarries and to develop new quarry operations. Although it cannot be predicted what policies will be adopted in the future by federal, state, and local governmental bodies regarding these matters, the Company anticipates that future restrictions will likely make zoning and permitting more difficult, thereby potentially enhancing the value of the Company s existing mineral reserves. Management believes its aggregates reserves are sufficient to permit production at present operational levels for the foreseeable future. The Company does not anticipate any significant difficulty in obtaining reserves used for production. The Company s aggregates reserves average approximately 78 years, based on current production levels. However, certain locations may be subject to more limited reserves and may not be able to expand. Moreover, as noted above, environmental and zoning regulations will likely make it harder for the Company to expand its existing quarries or develop new quarry operations . The Company generally sells its aggregates, ready mixed concrete and asphalt products upon receipt of customer orders or requests. The Company generally maintains inventories of aggregates products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of customers. Cement and Downstream Operations Cement is the basic agent used to bind aggregates, sand and water in the production of ready mixed concrete. The Company has a strategic and leading cement position in Texas, with production facilities in Midlothian, Texas, south of Dallas/Fort Worth, and Hunter, Texas, north of San Antonio. These plants, which produce Portland and specialty cements, have a combined annual clinker capacity of 4.5 million tons, and operated at 76% utilization in 2021. The Midlothian plant permit allows the Company to expand production by up to 0.8 million additional tons. In 2021, as part of the Lehigh West Region acquisition, the Company acquired two cement production facilities, including one in Redding, California and one in Tehachapi, California, and several cement distribution terminals. These operations are classified as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2021. Calcium carbonate in the form of limestone is the principal raw material used in the production of cement. The Company owns more than 600 million tons of limestone reserves adjacent to its Texas cement production plants and more than 50 million tons of limestone reserves adjacent to its California cement production plants. The cement operations of the Building Materials business produce Portland and specialty cements. Similar to aggregates, cement is used in infrastructure projects, nonresidential and residential construction, and the railroad, agricultural, utility and environmental industries. Consequently, the cement industry is cyclical and dependent on the strength of the construction sector. Cement consumption is dependent on the time of year and prevalent weather conditions. According to the Portland Cement Association, nearly two-thirds of U.S. cement consumption occurs in the six months between May and October. Approximately 70% to 75% of all cement shipments are sent to ready mixed concrete operators. The rest are shipped to manufacturers of concrete-related products, contractors, materials dealers and oil well/mining/drilling companies, as well as government entities. SOAR to a Sustainable Future Form 10-K Page 3 Part I Item 1 Business Energy accounted for approximately 23% of the cement production cost profile in 2021. Therefore, profitability of cement is affected by changes in energy prices and the available supply of these products. The Company currently has fixed-price supply contracts for coal and natural gas, but also consumes alternative fuel and petroleum coke. Further, profitability of the cement operations is also impacted by kiln maintenance, which typically requires a plant to be shut down for a period of time. The limestone reserves used as a raw material for cement are located on Company-owned property, adjacent to each of the cement plants. Management believes that its reserves of limestone are sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future. The cement operations generally deliver their products upon receipt of customer orders or requests. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers . Ready mixed concrete, a mixture primarily consisting of cement, aggregates, sand and water, is measured in cubic yards and specifically batched or produced for customers construction projects and then transported and poured at the project site. The aggregates used for ready mixed concrete is a washed material with limited amounts of fines (such as dirt and clay). The Company operates 150 ready mix plants in Texas, Colorado, California, Arizona and Wyoming. The California ready mixed concrete operations are classified as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2021. Asphalt is most commonly used in surfacing roads and parking lots and consists of liquid asphalt, or bitumen, the binding medium, and aggregates. Similar to ready mixed concrete, each asphalt batch is produced to customer specifications. The Company operates 35 asphalt plants in Arizona, California, Colorado and Minnesota. The Company also provides paving services in Colorado and California. Market dynamics for these downstream product lines include a highly competitive environment and lower barriers to entry compared with aggregates and cement. The cement and downstream operations results are affected by volatile factors, including energy-related costs, operating efficiencies and weather, to a greater extent than the Company s aggregates operations. Liquid asphalt and cement serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in prices for these raw materials directly affect the Company s operating results. Magnesia Specialties Business The Magnesia Specialties business produces and sells dolomitic lime from its Woodville, Ohio facility and manufactures magnesia-based chemical products for industrial, agricultural and environmental applications at its Manistee, Michigan facility. These magnesia-based chemical products have varying uses, including flame retardants, wastewater treatment, pulp and paper production and other environmental applications. In 2021, 69% of Magnesia Specialties total revenues were attributable to chemical products, 30% to lime, and 1% to stone sold as construction materials. In 2021, 76% of the lime produced in the Magnesia Specialties business was sold to third-party customers, while the remaining 24% was used internally as a raw material in making the business chemical products. Dolomitic lime products sold to external customers are used primarily by the steel industry. In 2021, 34% of the Magnesia Specialties total revenues were attributable to products used in the steel industry, primarily dolomitic lime. Accordingly, a portion of the revenues and profitability of the Magnesia Specialties business is affected by production and inventory trends in the steel industry. These trends are guided by the rate of consumer consumption, the flow of offshore imports, and other economic factors. The dolomitic lime business runs most profitably at 70% or greater steel capacity utilization. According to the Federal Reserve, domestic capacity utilization averaged 81% in 2021 versus 65% in 2020, which was negatively impacted by COVID-19. In the Magnesia Specialties business, a significant portion of costs is of a fixed or semi-fixed nature. The production process requires the use of natural gas, coal and petroleum coke. Therefore, fluctuations in their pricing directly affect operating results. To help mitigate this risk, the Magnesia Specialties business has fixed-price agreements for approximately 64% of its 2022 coal, natural gas and petroleum coke needs. For 2021, the Company s average cost per MCF (thousand cubic feet) of natural gas increased 21% versus 2020. Given high fixed costs, low capacity utilization can negatively affect the segment s results from operations. Management expects future organic profit growth to result from increased pricing, efficiency enhancements, rationalization of the current product portfolio and/or further cost reductions. Management has shifted the strategic focus of the magnesia-based business to specialty chemicals that can be produced at volume levels that support efficient operations. Accordingly, these products are not as dependent on the steel industry as the dolomitic lime product line. Demand for chemicals products recovered in 2021 after being negatively impacted by COVID-19 in 2020. Form 10-K Page 4 SOAR to a Sustainable Future Part I Item 1 Business The principal raw materials used in the Magnesia Specialties business are dolomitic limestone and magnesium-rich brine. Management believes that its reserves of dolomitic limestone and brine are sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future. Magnesia Specialties generally delivers its products upon receipt of customer orders or requests. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers. A significant portion of the 275,000-ton dolomitic lime capacity from a lime kiln at Woodville, Ohio is committed under a long-term supply contract. The Magnesia Specialties business is highly dependent on rail transportation, particularly for movement of dolomitic lime from Woodville to Manistee and direct customer shipments of dolomitic lime and magnesia chemicals products from both Woodville and Manistee. The segment can be affected by the specific transportation and other risks and uncertainties outlined under Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. Patents and Trademarks As of January 31, 2022, the Company owns, has the right to use, or has pending applications for patents pending or granted by the United States and various countries and trademarks related to its business. The Company believes that its rights under its existing patents, patent applications and trademarks are of value to its operations, but no one patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks is material to the conduct of the Company s business as a whole. Customers No material part of the business as a whole, or of any segment of the Company, is dependent upon a single customer or upon a few customers. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the segment. The Company s products are sold principally to commercial customers in private industry. Although large amounts of construction materials are used in public works projects, relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county, or municipal governments, or agencies thereof. Competition The nature of the Company s competition varies among its products due to the widely differing amounts of capital necessary to build and maintain production facilities. Crushed stone production from quarries or mines, and sand and gravel production by dredging, is moderately capital intensive. Construction of cement production facilities is highly capital intensive and requires long lead times to complete engineering design, obtain regulatory permits, acquire equipment and construct a plant. Most domestic cement producers are owned by large foreign companies operating in multiple international markets. Many of these producers maintain the capability to import cement from foreign production facilities. Ready mixed concrete production requires relatively small amounts of capital to build a concrete batching plant and acquire delivery trucks. Accordingly, economics can lead to lower barriers to entry in some concrete markets. As a result, depending on the local market, the Company may face competition from small producers as well as large, vertically-integrated companies with facilities in many markets. The Company operates in a largely-fragmented industry with over 5,000 domestic aggregates producers, including large, public companies and a large number of small, privately-held companies. Other publicly traded companies among the ten largest U.S. aggregates producers include the following: Cemex S.A.B. de C.V. CRH plc HeidelbergCement AG LafargeHolcim MDU Resources Group, Inc. Summit Materials, Inc. Vulcan Materials Company Due to the localized nature of the industry resulting from the high cost of transportation relative to the price of the product, the Building Materials business primarily operates in smaller distinct areas that can vary from one another. Capacity for cement plants is often stated in terms of clinker capacity clinker is the initial product of cement production. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, United States cement production is widely dispersed, with the top five companies collectively producing approximately 58% of U.S. clinker capacity. An estimated 83% of U.S. clinker capacity is owned by SOAR to a Sustainable Future Form 10-K Page 5 Part I Item 1 Business companies headquartered outside of the United States. The Company s cement operations also compete with imported cement because of the higher value of the product and the existence of major ports or terminals in Texas and California . The Company s ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations are also in markets with numerous operators, large and small. The Company believes that its ability to transport materials by rail and waterborne vessels has enhanced its ability to compete in the building materials industry. The Magnesia Specialties business competes with various companies in different geographic and product areas principally on the basis of quality, price, technological advances, and technical support for its products. While the revenues of the Magnesia Specialties business in 2021 were predominantly domestic, a portion was derived from customers located outside the United States. Environmental and Governmental Regulations Overview The Company s operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, mining, air emissions (including CO 2 and other greenhouse gases), water use, allocation and discharges, waste management, noise and dust exposure control, reclamation and other environmental, health and safety, and regulatory matters. Certain of the Company s operations may from time to time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for certain of the Company s operations, and such permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation. Environmental Compliance and Accruals The Company regularly monitors and reviews its operations, procedures, and policies for compliance with existing laws and regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws and enforcement policies, new laws that are adopted, and new laws that the Company anticipates will be adopted that could affect its operations. The Company has a full-time team of environmental engineers and managers that perform these responsibilities. The direct costs of ongoing environmental compliance were approximately $31.0 million in 2021 and $32.8 million in 2020 and are related to the Company s environmental staff, ongoing monitoring costs for various matters (including those matters disclosed in this Form 10-K), and asset retirement costs. Capitalized costs related to environmental control facilities were approximately $12.0 million in 2021 and are expected to be approximate