ITEM 1. BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 25 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 25 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 28 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 28 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 29 PART II 30 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 30 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 32 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 34 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 71 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 72 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 118 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 118 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 119 PART III 120 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 120 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 120 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 120 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 120 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 120 PART IV 121 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 121 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 126 SIGNATURES 127 Part I Item 1 Business PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS General Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (the Company or Martin Marietta ) is a natural resource-based building materials company. The Company supplies aggregates (crushed stone, sand and gravel) through its network of more than 300 quarries, mines and distribution yards in 27 states, Canada, the Bahamas and the Caribbean Islands. In the western United States, Martin Marietta also provides cement and downstream products, namely, ready mixed concrete, asphalt and paving services in markets where the Company has a leading aggregates position. Specifically, the Company has two cement plants in Texas, and ready mixed concrete and asphalt operations in Texas, Colorado, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Wyoming. Paving services are exclusively in Colorado. The Company s heavy-side building materials are used in infrastructure, nonresidential and residential construction projects. Aggregates are also used in agricultural, utility and environmental applications and as railroad ballast. The aggregates, cement, ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving product lines are reported collectively as the Building Materials business. The Company also operates a Magnesia Specialties business with production facilities in Michigan and Ohio. The Magnesia Specialties business produces magnesia-based chemical products that are used in industrial, agricultural and environmental applications. It also produces dolomitic lime sold primarily to customers in the steel and mining industries. Magnesia Specialties products are shipped to customers worldwide. The Company was formed in 1993 as a North Carolina corporation to serve as successor to the operations of the materials group of the organization that is now Lockheed Martin Corporation. An initial public offering of a portion of the Company s common stock was completed in 1994, followed by a tax-free exchange transaction in 1996 that resulted in 100% of the Company s common stock being publicly traded. The Company completed over 90 smaller acquisitions from the time of its initial public offering until the present, which allowed the Company to enhance and expand its aggregates-led presence in the building materials marketplace. This included an exchange of certain assets in 2011 with Lafarge North America Inc. ( Lafarge ), pursuant to which it received aggregates quarry sites, ready mixed concrete and asphalt plants, and a road paving business in and around the metropolitan Denver, Colorado, and the I-25 corridor, in exchange for which Lafarge received properties consisting of quarries, an asphalt plant and distribution yards operated by the Company along the Mississippi River (called the Company s River District Operations ) and a cash payment. The business has developed further through the following transactions over the past few years. In 2014, the Company completed the acquisition of Texas Industries, Inc. ( TXI ), further augmenting its position as a leading supplier of aggregates and heavy building materials. TXI was a major supplier of natural aggregates in Texas, in northern Louisiana and, to a lesser extent, in Oklahoma and Arkansas. TXI was the then largest supplier of cement and ready mixed concrete products in Texas. TXI enhanced the Company s position as an aggregates-led, low-cost operator in large and fast-growing geographies in the United States, adding 800 million tons of aggregates to the Company s reserves, and provided high-quality assets in cement and ready mixed concrete. In connection with the TXI acquisition, the Company acquired nine quarries and six aggregates distribution terminals located in Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma. The Company also acquired two cement plants in Midlothian, Texas, south of Dallas, and Hunter, Texas, north of San Antonio, and approximately 120 ready mixed concrete plants, situated primarily in three areas of Texas (the Dallas/Fort Worth/Denton area of north Texas the Austin area of central Texas and from Beaumont to Texarkana in east Texas), in north and central Louisiana and in Southwestern Arkansas. As part of an agreement in conjunction with the United States Department of Justice s review of the transaction, the Company divested its North Troy Quarry in Oklahoma and two related rail distribution yards in Dallas and Frisco, Texas. TXI was also a cement producer in California. In 2015, the Company divested its California cement operations acquired from TXI. These operations were not in close proximity to aggregates and other core assets of the Company and, unlike other marketplace competitors, were not vertically integrated with ready mixed concrete production. The divestiture primarily included a cement plant, two distribution terminals, mobile equipment, intangible assets and inventory. The Company also completed the integration of the TXI operations in 2015, and completed three smaller acquisitions the same year, which included three aggregates operations and related assets. In 2016, the Company acquired aggregates, ready mixed concrete and asphalt and paving operations in southern Colorado that provided more than 500 million tons of mineral reserves and expanded the Company s presence along the Front Range Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Form 10-K Page 1 Part I Item 1 Business of the Rocky Mountains, home to 85% of Colorado s population. The Company also acquired the remaining and controlling interest in a ready mixed concrete company that serves the I-35 corridor in central Texas between Dallas and Austin, which enhanced the Company s position and provided additional vertical integration benefits with the Company s cement product line. In 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Bluegrass Materials Company ( Bluegrass ), the then largest privately held, pure-play aggregates business in the United States. With a portfolio of 22 active sites acquired by the Company, the operations provided more than 2.2 billion tons, or approximately 125 years, of strategically-located, high-quality reserves, in Georgia, South Carolina, Tennessee, Maryland, Kentucky and Pennsylvania. These operations complemented the Company s existing southeastern footprint in its Mid-America and Southeast Groups and provided a new growth platform within Maryland and Kentucky. Between 2001 and 2019, the Company disposed of a number of underperforming operations, including aggregates, ready mixed concrete, trucking, and asphalt and road paving operations of its Building Materials business and the refractories business of its Magnesia Specialties business. In some of its divestitures, the Company concurrently entered into supply agreements to provide aggregates at market rates to certain of these divested businesses. During 2015, the Company disposed of certain non-core asphalt operations in San Antonio, Texas and divested its California cement operations. Divestitures in 2018 also included those required as part of the governmental approval associated with the acquisition of Bluegrass, consisting of one site owned by Bluegrass and one site operated by the Company. The Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to divest underperforming or non-strategic assets, if appropriate, during 2020 consistent with its strategic plan and in an effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities. Business Segment Information The Company conducts its Building Materials business through three reportable segments, organized by geography: Mid-America Group, Southeast Group and West Group. The Mid-America and Southeast Groups provide aggregates products only. The West Group provides aggregates, cement and downstream products. Our top ten states accounted for 86% of the Building Materials business total revenues in 2019: Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia, Iowa, Florida, South Carolina, Indiana, Maryland and Nebraska. The Company also has the Magnesia Specialties segment, which includes its magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses. For more information on the organization and geographic area of the Company s business segments, see Note A: Accounting Policies-Organization and Note P: Segments of the Notes to Financial Statements of the Company s consolidated financial statements, which appear in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K ). Building Materials Business This section describes the product lines of the Building Materials business undertaken by the Company within its Mid-America Group, Southeast Group, and West Group. The Company operates its aggregates product line of business in all of these geographic segments within its Building Materials business. In 2019, the aggregates product line represented 62% of the Company s consolidated total products and services revenues. The Company s cement, ready mixed concrete, and asphalt and paving operations are conducted within the Company s West Group, with its two cement plants in Texas, and the remaining ready mixed concrete and asphalt product lines in Texas, Colorado, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Wyoming. Paving services are offered exclusively in Colorado. The Company s cement product line is described below and in greater detail in the next section. The Building Materials business serves customers in the construction marketplace. The business profitability is sensitive to national, regional and local economic conditions and cyclical swings in construction spending, which are in turn affected by fluctuations in levels of public-sector infrastructure funding interest rates access to capital markets and demographic, geographic, employment and population dynamics. The heavy-side construction business, inclusive of much of the Company s operations, is conducted outdoors. Therefore, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes, and other weather-related conditions, including precipitation, flooding, hurricanes, snowstorms, extreme temperatures, and droughts, can significantly affect production schedules, shipments, costs, efficiencies and profitability. Generally, the financial results for the first and fourth quarters are subject to the impacts of winter weather, while the second and third quarters are subject to the impacts of heavy precipitation. Form 10-K Page 2 Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Part I Item 1 Business Aggregates are an engineered, granular material consisting of crushed stone, and sand and gravel, manufactured to specific sizes, grades and chemistry for use primarily in construction applications. The Company s operations consist primarily of open pit quarries however, the Company is the largest operator of underground aggregates mines in the United States with 14 active underground mines located in the Mid-America Group. The Company s aggregates reserves are 89 years on average at current production levels. Cement is the basic binding agent used to bind water, aggregates and sand, in the production of ready mixed concrete. The Company has a strategic and leading cement position in Texas, with production facilities in Midlothian, Texas, south of Dallas/Fort Worth, and Hunter, Texas, north of San Antonio. These plants produce Portland and specialty cements, have a combined annual capacity of 4.5 million tons, and operated at 80% to 85% utilization in 2019. The Midlothian plant permit allows the Company to expand production by up to 800,000 additional tons. In addition to the two production facilities, the Company operates several cement distribution terminals. Calcium carbonate in the form of limestone is the principal raw material used in the production of cement. The Company owns more than 600 million tons of limestone reserves adjacent to its cement production plants. Ready mixed concrete, a mixture primarily of cement, water, aggregates, and sand, is measured in cubic yards and specifically batched or produced for customers' construction projects and then transported and poured at the project site. The aggregates used for ready mixed concrete is a washed material with limited amounts of fines (such as dirt and clay). The Company operates 141 ready mix plants in Texas, Colorado, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Wyoming. Asphalt is most commonly used in surfacing roads and parking lots and consists of liquid asphalt, or bitumen, the binding medium, and aggregates. Similar to ready mixed concrete, each asphalt batch is produced to customer specifications. The Company s asphalt operations are located primarily in Colorado additionally, paving services are offered in Colorado. Market dynamics for these downstream product lines include a highly competitive environment and lower barriers to entry compared with aggregates and cement. The Building Materials business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with 35% of the aggregates product line shipments in 2019 made to contractors in connection with highway and other public infrastructure projects and the balance of its shipments made primarily to contractors in connection with nonresidential and residential construction projects. The Company believes public-works projects have historically accounted for approximately 50% of the total annual aggregates and cement consumption in the United States. Therefore, these businesses benefit from public-works construction projects. The Company also believes exposure to fluctuations in nonresidential and residential, or private-sector, construction spending is lessened by the business mix of public sector-related shipments. As a result of dependence upon the construction industry, the profitability of aggregates and cement producers is sensitive to national, regional and local economic conditions, and particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending, which is affected by fluctuations in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in the level of infrastructure spending funded by the public sector. While construction spending in the public and private market sectors is affected by economic cycles, the historic level of spending on public infrastructure projects has been, comparatively, more stable due to predictability of funding from federal, state and local governments, with approximately half of the funding from federal government and half from state and local governments in certain states. The Fixing America s Surface Transportation Act (the FAST Act ), signed into law on December 4, 2015, is the first long-term transportation funding bill in nearly a decade and authorizes $305 billion over fiscal years 2016 through 2020. Included with FAST Act funding is $300 million available for loans issued under Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act ( TIFIA ). If a successor bill is not passed prior to the September 2020 expiration of the FAST Act, management expects continuing resolutions to be passed to continue federal highway funding at current levels. Public construction projects, once awarded, are seen through to completion. Thus, delays from weather or other factors typically serve to extend the duration of the construction cycle. State and local initiatives that support infrastructure funding, including gas tax increases and other ballot initiatives, are increasing in size and number as these governments recognize the need to play an expanded role in public infrastructure funding. In November 2019, 270 state and local ballot initiatives, 89% of all infrastructure funding measures up for vote, were approved and are estimated to generate over $9.6 billion in one-time and recurring revenues. Namely, Texas, Colorado, Georgia and North Carolina approved measures that will contribute a total of $8.1 billion to infrastructure funding, the majority of which are in Texas. Since 2010, 81% of transportation ballot initiatives have been approved by voters. Funding from the FAST Act, coupled with state and local transportation initiatives has resulted in an acceleration in lettings (making contracts available for bidding) and contract awards in key states, including Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida. The pace of construction should accelerate and shipments to the public infrastructure market should return to historical levels as monies from both the federal government and state and local governments become awarded. Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Form 10-K Page 3 Part I Item 1 Business Public-sector construction related to transportation infrastructure can be aggregates intensive and is funded through a combination of federal, state and local sources. The federal highway bill, currently the FAST Act, provides annual funding for public-sector highway construction projects and includes spending authorizations, which represent the maximum financial obligation that will result from the immediate or future outlays of federal funds for highway and transit programs. The federal government s surface transportation programs are financed mostly through the receipts of highway user taxes placed in the Highway Trust Fund, which is divided into the Highway Account and the Mass Transit Account. Revenues credited to the Highway Trust Fund are primarily derived from a federal gas tax, a federal tax on certain other motor fuels and interest on the accounts accumulated balances. Of the currently imposed federal gas tax of $0.184 per gallon, which has been static since 1993, $0.15 is allocated to the Highway Account of the Highway Trust Fund. Since most states are required to balance their budgets, reductions in revenues generally require a reduction in states expenditures. However, the impact of state revenue reductions on highway investment will vary depending on whether the monies come from dedicated revenue sources, such as highway user fees, or whether portions are funded with general funds. States continue to play an expanding role in infrastructure investment. In addition to federal appropriations, each state funds its infrastructure investment from specifically allocated amounts collected from various user fees, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees. Over the past several years, states have taken on a significantly larger role in funding infrastructure investment, including initiating special-purpose taxes and raising gas taxes . Management believes that financing at the state level, such as bond issuances, toll roads and tax initiatives, will grow at a faster rate in the near term than federal funding. State infrastructure spending generally leads to increased growth opportunities for the Company. The level of state public-works spending is varied across the nation and dependent upon individual state economies. The degree to which the Company could be affected by a reduction or slowdown in infrastructure spending varies by state. The state economies of the Building Materials business ten largest revenue-generating states may disproportionately affect the Company s financial performance. Governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private-sector spending. Obligations of federal funds is a leading indicator of highway construction activity in the United States. Before a state or local department of transportation can solicit bids on an eligible construction project, it enters into an agreement with the Federal Highway Administration to obligate the federal government to pay its portion of the project cost. Federal obligations are subject to annual funding appropriations by Congress. The need for surface transportation improvements continues to significantly outpace the amount of available funding. A large number of roads, highways and bridges built following the establishment of the Interstate Highway System in 1956 are now in need of major repair or reconstruction. According to The Road Information Program ( TRIP ), a national transportation research group, vehicle travel on United States highways increased 17% from 2000 to 2017, while new lane road mileage increased only 5% over the same period. TRIP also reports that 44% of the nation s major roads are in poor or mediocre condition and 9% of the nation s bridges are structurally deficient. According to the 2015 American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Transportation Bottom Line Report, annual investment in the nation s roads, highways and bridges needs to increase from $88 billion to $120 billion to improve conditions and meet the nation s mobility needs. While state DOTs and contractors are addressing their funding and labor constraints, the Company believes that with an enhanced infrastructure bill, those efforts would be more rapidly addressed. However, even in the absence of an enhanced infrastructure bill, strong customer confidence and improving sentiment leads management to believe that infrastructure activity for 2020 and beyond should benefit from the FAST Act and its eventual successor bill, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( 2017 Tax Act ), and additional state and local infrastructure initiatives. Funding of public infrastructure, the Company s largest end-use market, is discussed in greater detail under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Building Materials Business Key Considerations Public Infrastructure, the Company s largest end-use market, is funded through a combination of federal, state and local sources in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K. The Company s Building Materials business covers a wide geographic area. The five largest sales-generating states (Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia, and Iowa) for the Building Materials business accounted for 72% of total revenues by state of destination in 2019. The Company s Building Materials business is accordingly affected by the economies in these regions and has been adversely affected in part by recessions and weaknesses in these economies from time to time. Recent improvements in the national economy and in some of the states in which the Company operates have led to improvements in profitability in the Company s Building Materials business. Form 10-K Page 4 Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Part I Item 1 Business Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively homogeneous deposits in certain areas of the United States. As a general rule, truck shipments from an individual quarry are limited because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price of the product itself. As described below, the Company s distribution system mainly uses trucks, but also has access to a river barge and an ocean vessel network where the per-mile unit cost of transporting aggregates is much lower. In addition, acquisitions have enabled the Company to extend its customer base through increased access to rail transportation. Proximity of quarry facilities to customers or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in competition for aggregates businesses. Product shipments are moved by rail, water and truck through the Company s long-haul distribution network. The Company s rail network primarily serves its Texas, Florida, Colorado and Gulf Coast markets while the Company s Bahamas and Nova Scotia locations transport materials via oceangoing ships. The Company s strategic focus includes expanding inland and offshore capacity and acquiring distribution facilities and port locations to offload transported material. At December 31, 2019, the distribution network available to the Company consisted of 86 terminals. The long-haul distribution network can diversify market risk for locations that engage in long-haul transportation of their aggregates products. Particularly where a producing quarry serves a local market and transports products via rail, water and/or truck to be sold in other markets, the risk of a downturn in one market may be somewhat mitigated by other markets served by the location. The Company generally acquires contiguous property around existing quarry locations. This property can serve as buffer property or additional mineral reserve capacity, assuming the underlying geology supports economical aggregates mining. In either instance, the acquisition of additional property around an existing quarry allows the expansion of the quarry footprint and extension of quarry life. Some locations having limited reserves may be unable to expand. A long-term capital focus for the Company, primarily in the midwestern United States due to the nature of its indigenous aggregates supply, is underground limestone aggregates mines. The Company operates 14 active underground mines, located in the Mid-America Group, and is the largest operator of underground limestone aggregate mines in the United States. Production costs are generally higher at underground mines than surface quarries since the depth of the aggregate deposits and the access to the reserves result in higher costs related to development, explosives and depreciation costs. However, these locations often possess transportation advantages that can lead to higher average selling prices than more distant surface quarries. The Company s acquisitions and capital projects have expanded its ability to move material by rail. The Company has added additional capacity in a number of locations that can now accommodate larger unit train movements. These expansion projects have enhanced the Company s long-haul distribution network. The Company s process improvement efforts have also improved operational effectiveness through plant automation, mobile fleet modernization, right-sizing and other cost control improvements. Accordingly, the Company has enhanced its reach through its ability to provide cost-effective coverage of coastal markets on the east and gulf coasts, as well as geographic areas that can be accessed economically by the Company s expanded distribution system. This distribution network moves aggregates materials from domestic and offshore sources, via rail and water, to markets where aggregates supply is limited. As the Company continues to move more aggregates by rail and water, associated internal freight costs are expected to reduce gross margin. This typically occurs where the Company transports aggregates from a production location to a distribution location by rail or water, and the customer pays a selling price that includes a freight component. Margins are negatively affected because the Company typically does not charge the customer a profit associated with the transportation component of the selling price of the materials. Moreover, the Company s expansion of its rail-based distribution network, coupled with the extensive use of rail service in the Southeast and West Groups, increases the Company s dependence on and exposure to railroad performance, including track congestion, crew availability, railcar availability, and locomotive availability, and the ability to renegotiate favorable railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network, primarily located within the Southeast Group, also increases the Company s exposure to certain risks, including, among other items, meeting minimum tonnage requirements of shipping contracts, demurrage costs, fuel costs, ship availability and weather disruptions. The Company has long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport the Company s aggregates to various coastal ports. The Company s long-term shipping contracts for shipment by water are generally take-or-pay contracts with minimum and maximum shipping requirements. These contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2023 to 2027 and generally contain renewal options. However, there can be no assurance that these contracts can be renewed upon expiration or that terms will continue without significant increases. If the Company fails to ship the annual minimum tonnages under the agreement, it is still obligated to pay the shipping company the contractually-stated minimum amount for that year. In 2019, the Company did not incur these freight costs however a charge is possible in 2020 if shipment volumes do not meet the contractually-stated minimums. Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Form 10-K Page 5 Part I Item 1 Business From time to time, the Company has experienced rail transportation shortages, particularly in the Southwest and Southeast. These shortages were caused by the downsizing in personnel and equipment by certain railroads during economic downturns. Historically, in response to these issues, rail transportation providers focused on increasing the number of cars per unit train under transportation contracts and generally requ