ITEM 1 Business 4 ITEM 1A Risk Factors 10 ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 13 ITEM 2 Properties 13 ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings 13 ITEM 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 13 PART II ITEM 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 ITEM 6 Selected Financial Data 15 ITEM 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 16 MD A is designed to provide a reader of 3M s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of management. 3M s MD A is presented in eight sections: Overview 16 Results of Operations 25 Performance by Business Segment 30 Performance by Geographic Area 37 Critical Accounting Estimates 37 New Accounting Pronouncements 41 Financial Condition and Liquidity 41 Financial Instruments 49 ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Index to Financial Statements 51 Management s Responsibility for Financial Reporting 51 Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 52 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 53 Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 56 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 57 Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2019 and 2018 58 2 Table of Contents Beginning Page ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (continued) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 59 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 60 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 61 Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies 61 Note 2. Revenue 69 Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures 71 Note 4. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 74 Note 5. Restructuring Actions 76 Note 6. Supplemental Income Statement Information 78 Note 7. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information 79 Note 8. Supplemental Equity and Comprehensive Income Information 80 Note 9. Supplemental Cash Flow Information 81 Note 10. Income Taxes 82 Note 11. Marketable Securities and Held-to-Maturity Debt Securities 85 Note 12. Long-Term Debt and Short-Term Borrowings 86 Note 13. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans 89 Note 14. Derivatives 98 Note 15. Fair Value Measurements 106 Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies 109 Note 17. Leases 124 Note 18. Stock-Based Compensation 127 Note 19. Business Segments and Geographic Information 130 Note 20. Quarterly Data (Unaudited) 134 ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 135 ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures 135 ITEM 9B Other Information 135 PART III ITEM 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 136 ITEM 11 Executive Compensation 136 ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 137 ITEM 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 137 ITEM 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 137 PART IV ITEM 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 138 ITEM 16 Form 10-K Summary 140 3 Table of Contents 3M COMPANY ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 PART I Item 1. Busines s. 3M Company was incorporated in 1929 under the laws of the State of Delaware to continue operations begun in 1902. The Company s ticker symbol is MMM. As used herein, the term 3M or Company includes 3M Company and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. In this document, for any references to Note 1 through Note 20, refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Available Information The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company files annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). 3M also makes available free of charge through its website (http://investors.3M.com) the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. General 3M is a diversified technology company with a global presence in the following businesses : Safety and Industrial; Transportation and Electronics; Health Care; and Consumer. 3M is among the leading manufacturers of products for many of the markets it serves. Most 3M products involve expertise in product development, manufacturing and marketing, and are subject to competition from products manufactured and sold by other technologically oriented companies. At December 31, 2019, the Company employed 96,163 people (full-time equivalents), with 39,662 employed in the United States and 56,501 employed internationally. Business Segments As described in Notes 4 and 19, effective in the second quarter of 2019, the Company realigned its former five business segments into four to enable the Company to better serve global customers and markets. In addition, certain product lines were moved to better align with their respective end customers. Earlier in the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its business segment reporting in its continuing effort to improve the alignment of businesses around markets and customers. These changes included the realignment of certain customer account activity in various countries (affecting dual credit reporting), creation of the Closure and Masking Systems and Medical Solutions divisions, and certain other actions that impacted segment reporting. Business segment information presented herein reflects the impact of these changes for all periods presented. 3M manages its operations in four business segments. The reportable segments are Safety and Industrial, Transportation and Electronics, Health Care, and Consumer. 3M s four business segments bring together common or related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. Financial information and other disclosures relating to 3M s business segments and operations in major geographic areas are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Safety and Industrial Business: This segment includes businesses that serve the global industrial, electrical and safety markets. This business segment consists of personal safety, industrial adhesives and tapes, abrasives, closure and masking systems, electrical markets, automotive aftermarket, and roofing granules. This segment also includes the Communication Markets Division (which was substantially sold in 2018) and the refrigeration filtration product lines (within Other Safety and Industrial). 4 Table of Contents This segment s industrial offerings include tapes, a wide variety of coated, non-woven and bonded abrasives, adhesives, sealants, specialty materials, closure systems for personal hygiene products, and acoustic systems products. 3M is also a leading global supplier of precision grinding technology serving customers in the area of hard-to-grind precision applications in industrial, automotive, aircraft and cutting tools. Major products include vinyl, polyester, foil and specialty industrial tapes and adhesives; Scotch Masking Tape, Scotch Filament Tape and Scotch Packaging Tape; packaging equipment; 3M VHB Bonding Tapes; conductive, low surface energy, sealants, hot melt, spray and structural adhesives; reclosable fasteners; label materials for durable goods; coated, nonwoven and microstructured surface finishing and grinding abrasives for the industrial market. In the first quarter of 2018, 3M divested a polymer additives compounding business and in May 2018 divested an abrasives glass products business. This segment s electrical offerings include infrastructure protection and renewable energy solutions. This segment serves the world s electrical markets, including electrical utilities, electrical construction, maintenance and repair, original equipment manufacturers (OEM), outside plant and enterprise, as well as aerospace, military, automotive and medical markets, with products that enable the efficient transmission of electrical power. Products in this segment include pressure sensitive tapes and resins, electrical insulation, as well as the 3M Aluminum Conductor Composite Reinforced (ACCR) electrical power cable that increases transmission capacity for existing power lines. This segment also includes renewable energy component solutions for the solar and wind power industries, as well as infrastructure products solutions that provide municipalities both protection and detection solutions for electrical, oil, natural gas, water, rebar and other infrastructure assets. In June 2018, 3M completed the sale of substantially all of its Communication Markets Division, with the remaining telecommunications systems services portion based in Germany sold in December 2018. This segment s safety market offerings include personal protection products, such as certain disposable and reusable respirators, fall protection equipment, personal protective equipment, head and face protection, body protection, hearing protection and protective eyewear, plus reflective materials that are widely used on apparel, footwear and accessories, enhancing visibility in low-light situations. Other segment products include natural and color-coated mineral granules for asphalt shingles. In October 2017, 3M completed the acquisition of the underlying legal entities and associated assets of Scott Safety, a premier manufacturer of innovative products, including self-contained breathing apparatus systems, gas and flame detection instruments, and other safety devices that complement 3M s personal safety portfolio. In January 2017, 3M sold the assets of its safety prescription eyewear business. In February 2018, 3M sold certain personal safety product offerings primarily focused on noise, environmental, and heat stress monitoring. In August 2019, 3M completed the sale of its gas and flame detection business. Transportation and Electronics Business: This segment includes businesses that serve global transportation and electronic original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers. This business segment consists of electronics (display materials and systems, electronic materials solutions), automotive and aerospace, commercial solutions, advanced materials, and transportation safety. This segment s transportation-related businesses include components and products that are used in the manufacture, repair and maintenance of automotive, marine, aircraft and specialty vehicles; fluoroelastomers for seals, tubes and gaskets in engines; Thinsulate Acoustic Insulation and components for cabin noise reduction and catalytic converters; functional and decorative graphics; abrasion-resistant films; adhesives; sealants; masking tapes; fasteners and tapes for attaching nameplates, trim, moldings, interior panels and carpeting; coated, nonwoven and microstructured finishing and grinding abrasives; structural adhesives; and other specialty materials. In transportation safety, 3M provides reflective sheeting used on highway signs, construction work-zone devices, trucks and other vehicles, and also provides pavement marking systems. In May 2017, 3M completed the divestiture of its identity management business. In June 2017, 3M also completed the sale of its tolling and automated license/number plate recognition business and in October 2017, sold its electronic monitoring business. This segment s electronics solutions include the display materials and systems business, which provides films that serve numerous market segments of the electronic display industry. 3M provides distinct products for five market segments, including products for: 1) computer monitors 2) televisions 3) handheld devices such as cellular phones and tablets 4) notebook PCs and 5) automotive displays. This segment also provides computer screen filters that address display light control, privacy, and glare reduction needs. Major electronics products also include packaging and interconnection devices; high performance fluids and abrasives used in the manufacture of computer chips, and for cooling electronics and lubricating computer hard disk drives; and high-temperature and display tapes. Flexible circuits use electronic packaging and interconnection technology, providing more connections in less space, and are used in ink-jet printer cartridges, cell phones and electronic devices. This segment also includes touch systems products, including touch screens, touch monitors, and touch sensor components. 5 Table of Contents Other businesses within this segment include major commercial products such as films, inks, and related products used to produce graphics for vehicles, signs and interior surfaces; spill-control sorbents; nonwoven abrasive materials for floor maintenance and commercial cleaning; and floor matting. 3M also develops and produces advanced technical ceramics for demanding applications in the automotive, oil and gas, solar, industrial, electronics and defense industries. Health Care Business: Products and services provided to these and other markets include medical and surgical supplies, skin health and infection prevention products, oral care solutions (dental and orthodontic products), separation and purification sciences, health information systems, inhalation and transdermal drug delivery systems, and food safety products. In medical solutions, 3M is a supplier of medical tapes, dressings, wound closure products, and orthopedic casting materials, in addition to acute wound care, skin integrity and disinfecting port protection products. 3M also markets a variety of surgical drapes, masks and preps, electrodes, stethoscopes, as well as sterilization assurance equipment and patient warming solutions designed to prevent hypothermia in surgical settings. In our drug delivery systems business, our products include metered-dose inhalers and transdermal skin patches and related components. This segment also includes a comprehensive line of filtration products for the separation, clarification and purification of fluids and gases. Oral care solutions include restoratives, adhesives, finishing and polishing products, crowns, impression materials, preventive sealants, professional tooth whiteners, prophylaxis and orthodontic appliances, as well as digital workflow solutions to transform traditional impression and analog processes. In health information systems, 3M develops and markets computer software for hospital coding, recording, and data classification and provides related consulting services. 3M provides food safety products that make it faster and easier for food processors to test the microbiological quality of food. In September 2017, 3M purchased all of the ownership interests of Elution Technologies, LLC, a Vermont-based manufacturer of test kits that help enable food and beverage companies ensure their products are free from certain potentially harmful allergens such as peanuts, soy or milk. In February 2019, 3M completed the acquisition of the technology business of M*Model. M*Model s technology business provides cloud-based, conversational artificial intelligence powered systems that expand 3M s Health Information Systems business. In October, 2019, 3M completed the acquisition of Acelity Inc. and its KCI subsidiaries. Acelity is a leading global medical technology company focused on advanced wound care and specialty surgical applications marketed under the KCI brand that expand 3M s presence in advanced and surgical wound care within 3M s medical solutions division. Consumer Business: This business serves global consumers and consists of home improvement, stationery and office supplies, home care, and consumer health care. This segment also includes, within the Construction and Home Improvement Division, certain retail auto care product lines. Products in this segment include office supply products, stationery products, home improvement products (do-it-yourself), home care products, protective material products, certain consumer retail personal safety products, and consumer health care products. Major consumer products include Scotch brand products, such as Scotch Magic Tape, Scotch Glue Stick and Scotch Cushioned Mailer; Post-it Products, such as Post-it Flags, Post-it Extreme Notes, Post-it Note Pads, Post-it Labeling Cover-up Tape, and Post-it Pop-up Notes and Dispensers; home improvement products, including ScotchBlue painter tapes, surface-preparation and wood-finishing materials, Command Adhesive Products and Filtrete Filters for furnaces and air conditioners and Filtrete Room Air Purifiers; home care products, including Scotch-Brite Scour Pads, Scotch-Brite Scrub Sponges, Scotch-Brite Microfiber Cloth products, O-Cel-O Sponges; protective material products, such as Scotchgard Fabric Protectors; certain maintenance-free respirators; certain consumer retail personal safety products, including safety glasses, hearing protectors, and 3M Thinsulate Insulation, which is used in jackets, pants, gloves, hats and boots to keep people warm; Nexcare Adhesive Bandages; and ACE branded (and related brands) elastic bandage, supports and thermometer product lines. Retail auto care product offerings include paint finishing and detailing products, including a complete system of cleaners, dressings, polishes, waxes and other products. Distribution 3M products are sold through numerous distribution channels, including directly to users and through numerous e-commerce and traditional wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide variety of trades in many countries around the world. Management believes the confidence of wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in 3M and its products a confidence developed through long association with skilled marketing and sales representatives has contributed significantly to 3M s position in the marketplace and to its growth. 6 Table of Contents Research and Patents Research and product development constitutes an important part of 3M s activities and has been a major driver of 3M s sales and profit growth. Research, development and related expenses totaled $1.911 billion in 2019, $1.821 billion in 2018 and $1.870 billion in 2017. Research and development, covering basic scientific research and the application of scientific advances in the development of new and improved products and their uses, totaled $1.253 billion in 2019, $1.253 billion in 2018 and $1.352 billion in 2017. Related expenses primarily include technical support; internally developed patent costs, which include costs and fees incurred to prepare, file, secure and maintain patents; amortization of externally acquired patents and externally acquired in-process research and development; and gains/losses associated with certain corporate approved investments in R D-related ventures, such as equity method effects and impairments. The Company s products are sold around the world under various trademarks. The Company also owns, or holds licenses to use, numerous U.S. and foreign patents. The Company s research and development activities generate a steady stream of inventions that are covered by new patents. Patents applicable to specific products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or patent grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. The Company believes that its patents provide an important competitive advantage in many of its businesses. In general, no single patent or group of related patents is in itself essential to the Company as a whole or to any of the Company s business segments. Raw Materials In 2019, the Company experienced raw material price inflation across many material markets in all geographies. In response, the Company continued to deploy productivity projects to minimize the impact of raw material inflation and market supply challenges, including input management, reformulations, and multi-sourcing activities. These succeeded in partially offsetting the overall raw material headwinds experienced throughout the year. To date, the Company is receiving sufficient quantities of all raw materials to meet its reasonably foreseeable production requirements. It is difficult to predict future shortages of raw materials or the impact any such shortages would have. 3M has avoided disruption to its manufacturing operations through careful management of existing raw material inventories, strategic relationships with key suppliers, and development as well as qualification of additional supply sources. 3M manages spend category price risks through negotiated supply contracts, price protection agreements and commodity price swaps. In addition, 3M evaluates suppliers conformance with environmental and social compliance requirements. Environmental Law Compliance 3M s manufacturing operations are affected by national, state and local environmental laws around the world. 3M has made, and plans to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. 3M is also involved in remediation actions relating to environmental matters from past operations at certain sites (refer to Environmental Matters and Litigation in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies). Environmental expenditures relating to existing conditions caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues are expensed. Reserves for liabilities for anticipated remediation costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when they are probable and reasonably estimable, generally no later than the completion of feasibility studies, the Company s commitment to a plan of action, or approval by regulatory agencies. Environmental expenditures for capital projects that contribute to current or future operations generally are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. In 2019, 3M expended approximately $59 million for capital projects related to protecting the environment. This amount excludes expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing matters caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues, which are expensed. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have included pollution control devices such as wastewater treatment plant improvements, scrubbers, containment structures, solvent recovery units and thermal oxidizers at new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course of business. The Company places consistent emphasis on environmental responsibility. While capital expenditures (other than for remediation projects) for known projects are presently expected to be approximately $150 million to $220 million over the next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions, 3M cannot predict with certainty whether future costs of 7 Table of Contents such cleanup activities, capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance will have a material effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Information about our Executive Officers Following is a list of the executive officers of 3M, and their age, present position, the year elected to their present position and other positions they have held during the past five years. No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers named, nor is there any undisclosed arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. This information is presented in the table below as of the date of the 10-K filing (February 6, 2020). Name Age Present Position Year Elected to Present Position Other Positions Held During 2015-2019 Michael F. Roman 60 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 2019 Chief Executive Officer, 2018-2019 Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President, 2017-2018 Executive Vice President, Industrial Business Group, 2014-2017 John P. Banovetz 52 Senior Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer 2017 Managing Director, DACH Region, 2016-2017 Vice President, Corporate Research Laboratory, Research and Development, 2015-2016 Global Business Director, Industrial Adhesives and Tapes Division, 2012-2015 Julie L. Bushman 58 Executive Vice President, International Operations 2017 Senior Vice President, Business Transformation and Information Technology, 2013-2017 Ivan K. Fong 58 Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel 2012 Nicholas C. Gangestad 55 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2014 Eric D. Hammes 45 Senior Vice President, Enterprise Operations 2019 Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Supply Chain, 2019 Senior Vice President, Business Transformation Information Technology, 2017-2019 Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, 2014-2017 Paul A. Keel 50 Executive Vice President, Consumer Business Group 2019 Senior Vice President, Business Development and Marketing-Sales, 2017-2019 Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, 2014-2017 Ashish K. Khandpur 52 Executive Vice President, Transportation Electronics Business Group 2019 Executive Vice President, Electronics Energy Business Group, 2017-2019 Senior Vice President, Research and Development, and Chief Technology Officer, 2014-2017 Kristen M. Ludgate 57 Senior Vice President, Human Resources 2018 Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and Enterprise Services, 2018 Vice President, Global Human Resources Business Operations, Human Resources, 2017-2018 Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Compliance and Business Conduct, 2015-2017 Associate General Counsel, Labor and Employment, Office of General Counsel, 2013-2015 Mojdeh Poul 57 Executive Vice President, Health Care Business Group 2019 Executive Vice President, Safety and Graphics Business Group, 2018-2019 President and General Manager, 3M Canada, 2016-2018 Vice President and General Manager, Infection Prevention Division, 2014-2016 8 Table of Contents Name Age Present Position Year Elected to Present Position Other Positions Held During 2015-2019 Denise R. Rutherford 57 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs 2019 Vice President, Research Development and Commercialization, Industrial Business Group, 2017-2019 Managing Director, 3M Japan, 2016-2017 Vice President, Greater China Area and Managing Director, 3M China, 2015-2016 Vice President, Latin America, 2013-2015 Stephen M. Shafer 44 Senior Vice President, 3M Strategy Business Development 2019 Senior Vice President, Business Development and Marketing-Sales, 2019 Vice President, Greater China Area and Managing Director, 3M China, 2016-2019 Vice President, Business Transformation, 2014-2016 Ty R. Silberhorn 52 Senior Vice President, Business Transformation and Information Technology 2019 Vice President and General Manager, Industrial Adhesives and Tapes Division, 2015-2019 Michael G. Vale 53 Executive Vice President, Safety and Industrial Business Group 2019 Executive Vice President, Health Care Business Group, 2016-2019 Executive Vice President, Consumer Business Group, 2012-2016 Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to shareholders and in press releases. In addition, the Company s representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to future events and typically address the Company s expected future business and financial performance. Words such as plan, expect, aim, believe, project, target, anticipate, intend, estimate, will, should, could, forecast and other words and terms of similar meaning, typically identify such forward-looking statements. In particular, these include, among others, statements relating to: the Company s strategy for growth, future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance, and market position, worldwide economic, political, regulatory, capital markets and other external conditions, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial conditions of our suppliers and customers, trade restrictions such as tariffs in addition to retaliatory counter measures, and natural and other disasters or climate change affecting the operations of the Company or our suppliers and customers, new business opportunities, product development, and future performance or results of current or anticipated products, the scope, nature or impact of acquisition, strategic alliance and divestiture activities, liabilities related to certain fluorochemicals and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal and regulatory proceedings, future levels of indebtedness, common stock repurchases and capital