ITEM 1. BUSINESS When this report uses the words the Company , we , us and our , these words refer to Monster Beverage Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. Based in Corona, California, Monster Beverage Corporation is a holding company and conducts no operating business, except through its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company s subsidiaries primarily develop and market energy drinks.The Company s subsidiary, CANarchy Craft Brewery Collective LLC ( CANarchy ), was renamed Monster Brewing Company effective January 2024. Overview We develop, market, sell and distribute energy drink beverages and concentrates for energy drink beverages, primarily under the following brand names: Monster Energy Monster Energy Ultra Monster Rehab Monster Energy Nitro Java Monster Punch Monster Juice Monster Reign Total Body Fuel Reign Inferno Thermogenic Fuel Reign Storm Bang Energy NOS Full Throttle Burn Mother Nalu Ultra Energy Play and Power Play (stylized) Relentless BPM BU Gladiator Samurai Live+ Predator Fury We also develop, market, sell and distribute still and sparkling waters under the Monster Tour Water brand name. We also develop, market, sell and distribute craft beers, hard seltzers and flavored malt beverages ( FMBs ) under a number of brands, including Jai Alai IPA, Florida Man TM IPA, Dale s Pale Ale , Wild Basin Hard Seltzers, Dallas Blonde , Deep Ellum TM IPA, Perrin Brewing Company TM Black Ale, Hop Rising Double IPA, Wasatch Apricot Hefeweizen, The Beast Unleashed , Nasty Beast TM Hard Tea and a host of other brands. Industry Overview The alternative beverage category combines non-carbonated, ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single-serve juices and fruit beverages, ready-to-drink dairy and coffee drinks, energy drinks, sports drinks and single-serve still waters (flavored, unflavored and enhanced) with new age beverages, including sodas that are considered natural, sparkling juices and flavored sparkling beverages. According to Beverage Marketing Corporation, domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2023 for the alternative beverage category of the market are estimated at approximately $73.4 billion, representing an increase of approximately 5.9% over estimated domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2022 of approximately $69.3 billion. 3 Table of Contents Reportable Segments We have four operating and reportable segments: (i) Monster Energy Drinks segment ( Monster Energy Drinks ), which is primarily comprised of our Monster Energy drinks, Reign Total Body Fuel high performance energy drinks, Reign Storm total wellness energy drinks, Bang Energy drinks and Monster Tour Water , (ii) Strategic Brands segment ( Strategic Brands ), which is primarily comprised of the various energy drink brands acquired from The Coca-Cola Company ( TCCC ) in 2015 as well as our affordable energy brands, Predator and Fury , (iii) Alcohol Brands segment ( Alcohol Brands ), which is comprised of various craft beers, hard seltzers and FMBs and (iv) Other segment ( Other ), which is comprised of certain products sold by American Fruits and Flavors LLC ( AFF ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, to independent third-party customers (the AFF Third-Party Products ). Our Monster Energy Drinks segment primarily generates net operating revenues by selling ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks primarily to bottlers and full service beverage distributors ( bottlers/distributors ). In some cases, we sell directly to retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, drug stores, foodservice customers, value stores, e-commerce retailers and the military. Our Strategic Brands segment primarily generates net operating revenues by selling concentrates and/or beverage bases to authorized bottling and canning operations. Such bottlers generally combine the concentrates and/or beverage bases with sweeteners, water and other ingredients to produce ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks. The ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks are then sold to other bottlers, full service distributors or retailers, including, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, foodservice customers, drug stores, value stores, e-commerce retailers and the military. To a lesser extent, our Strategic Brands segment generates net operating revenues by selling certain ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks to bottlers/distributors. Generally, the Monster Energy Drinks segment generates higher per case net operating revenues, but lower per case gross profit margin percentages than the Strategic Brands segment. The Company s Alcohol Brands segment primarily generates operating revenues by selling kegged and ready-to-drink canned beers, hard seltzers and FMBs, primarily to beer distributors in the United States. Generally, the Alcohol Brands segment has lower gross profit margin percentages than the Monster Energy Drinks segment. For certain risks with respect to our beverages see Part I,