ITEM 1. BUSINESS When this report uses the words the Company , we , us and our , these words refer to Monster Beverage Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. Based in Corona, California, Monster Beverage Corporation is a holding company and conducts no operating business, except through its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company s subsidiaries primarily develop and market energy drinks. Overview We develop, market, sell and distribute energy drink beverages and concentrates for energy drink beverages, primarily under the following brand names: Monster Energy Monster Energy Ultra Monster Rehab Monster MAXX Java Monster Muscle Monster Espresso Monster Punch Monster Juice Monster Monster Hydro Monster HydroSport Super Fuel Monster Dragon Tea Caff Monster Reign Total Body Fuel TM Reign Inferno TM Thermogenic Fuel NOS Full Throttle Burn Mother Nalu Ultra Energy Play and Power Play (stylized) Relentless BPM BU Gladiator Samurai Live+ Predator Industry Overview The alternative beverage category combines non-carbonated, ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single-serve juices and fruit beverages, ready-to-drink dairy and coffee drinks, energy drinks, sports drinks and single-serve still waters (flavored, unflavored and enhanced) with new age beverages, including sodas that are considered natural, sparkling juices and flavored sparkling beverages. According to Beverage Marketing Corporation, domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2019 for the alternative beverage category of the market are estimated at approximately $58.6 billion, representing an increase of approximately 5.7% over estimated domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2018 of approximately $55.5 billion. Reportable Segments We have three operating and reportable segments; (i) Monster Energy Drinks segment ( Monster Energy Drinks ), which is primarily comprised of our Monster Energy drinks and Reign Total Body Fuel TM high performance energy drinks, (ii) Strategic Brands segment ( Strategic Brands ), which is comprised primarily of the various energy drink brands acquired from The Coca-Cola Company ( TCCC ) in 2015, as well as our affordable energy brands, and (iii) Other segment ( Other ), which is comprised of certain products sold by American Fruits and Flavors, LLC ( AFF ), a wholly-owned subsidiary, to independent third-party customers (the AFF Third-Party Products ). Corporate and unallocated amounts that do not specifically relate to a reportable segment have been allocated to Corporate and unallocated. 3 Table of Contents Our Monster Energy Drinks segment primarily generates net operating revenues by selling ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks primarily to bottlers and full service beverage distributors. In some cases, we sell directly to retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, drug stores, foodservice customers, value stores, e-commerce retailers and the military. Our Strategic Brands segment primarily generates net operating revenues by selling concentrates and/or beverage bases to authorized bottling and canning operations. Such bottlers generally combine the concentrates and/or beverage bases with sweeteners, water and other ingredients to produce ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks. The ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks are then sold to other bottlers, full service distributors or retailers, including, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, foodservice customers, drug stores, value stores, e-commerce retailers and the military. To a lesser extent, our Strategic Brands segment generates net operating revenues by selling certain ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks to bottlers and full service beverage distributors. Generally, the Monster Energy Drinks segment generates higher per case net operating revenues, but lower per case gross profit margin percentages than the Strategic Brands segment. For certain risks with respect to our energy drinks see Part I,