Item 1. Business 1 Overview 1 Business Segment Information 3 Sales and Distribution Activities 22 Competition 23 Factors Affecting Demand 24 Other Matters 25 Executive Officers 25 Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 44 Item 2. Properties 44 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 44 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 45 Part II: Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 46 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 47 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 47 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 47 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B. Other Information 48 Part III: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 49 Item 11. Executive Compensation 49 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 49 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 49 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 49 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 50 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 57 Signatures S-1 Financial Table of Contents F-1 Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business. OVERVIEW The Mosaic Company is the world s leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Through our broad product offering, we are a single source supplier of phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients. We serve customers in approximately 40 countries. We are the second largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in North America and Brazil. Following our January 8, 2018 acquisition (the Acquisition ) of the global phosphate and potash operations of Vale S.A. conducted through Mosaic Fertilizantes P K S.A. (formerly Vale Fertilizantes S.A.), we are the leading fertilizer production and distribution company in Brazil. We mine phosphate rock in Florida and Brazil. We process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida, Louisiana and Brazil. Upon completion of the Acquisition, we became the majority owner of an entity operating a phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region in Peru, in which we previously held a minority equity interest. We are one of the four largest potash producers in the world. We mine potash in Saskatchewan, New Mexico and Brazil. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India and Paraguay, as well as a strategic equity investment in a joint venture that operates a phosphate rock mine and chemical complexes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our distribution operations serve the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world: China, India, the United States and Brazil. The Mosaic Company is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in March 2004 and serves as the parent company of the business that was formed through the October 2004 combination of IMC Global Inc. and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill, Incorporated. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol MOS and are headquartered in Tampa, Florida. We conduct our business through wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling interest. We are organized into three reportable business segments: Phosphates, Potash and Mosaic Fertilizantes. Intersegment eliminations, unrealized mark-to-market gains/losses on derivatives, debt expenses, Streamsong Resort results of operations, and the results of the China and India distribution businesses are included within Corporate, Eliminations and Other. As of January 1, 2019, certain selling, general and administrative costs that are not controllable by the business segments were no longer allocated to segments and are included within Corporate, Eliminations and Other. Our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, have been recast to reflect this change. The following charts show the respective contributions to 2019 sales volumes, net sales and gross margin for each of our business segments in effect at December 31, 2019: We account for approximately 13% of estimated global annual phosphate production. We also account for approximately 11% of estimated global annual potash production. 1 Table of Contents Phosphates Segment We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. We account for approximately 74% of estimated North American annual production of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. Potash Segment We sell potash throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed ingredients. We account for approximately 34% of estimated North American annual potash production. Mosaic Fertilizantes Segment We produce and sell phosphate and potash-based crop nutrients, and animal feed ingredients, in Brazil. In addition to five phosphate rock mines, four chemical plants and a potash mine in Brazil, this segment consists of sales offices, crop nutrient blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and warehouses in Brazil and Paraguay. The Mosaic Fertilizantes segment also serves as a distribution outlet for our Phosphates and Potash segments. We account for approximately 69% of estimated annual production of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in Brazil and 100% of estimated annual potash production in Brazil. As used in this report: Mosaic means The Mosaic Company; we , us , and our refer to Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination; Cargill means Cargill, Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination; Cargill Crop Nutrition means the crop nutrient business we acquired from Cargill in the Combination; Combination means the October 22, 2004 combination of IMC and Cargill Crop Nutrition; and statements as to our industry position reflect information from the most recent period available. Business Developments during 2019 In 2019, we realized approximately $330 million of targeted savings and synergies, net of costs to achieve, related to the Acquisition of Vale Fertilizantes S.A. (now known as Mosaic Fertilizantes P K S.A., which we refer to as Mosaic Fertilizantes) which exceeds our previously announced goal of $275 million by the end of 2019. In addition, we announced that we intend to drive an additional $200 million in annual operating earnings at Mosaic Fertilizantes through ongoing business transformation efforts by the end of 2022. In 2019, we repurchased 7.1 million shares of our Common Stock for approximately $150 million under our existing share repurchase authorization. In October 2019, we announced that we plan to accelerate development of the Esterhazy K3 potash mine shaft by an additional year, with expected completion by mid-2022. As production from the K3 shaft ramps up, we plan to cease underground mining at the K1 and K2 mine shafts. Underground operations will be completely transitioned to K3 in 2022, which is expected to eliminate our brine inflow management costs at the K1 and K2 shafts. A total of 1.4 million tonnes of ore was produced from the K3 shaft in 2019. Early in 2019, Brazil's National Mining Agency implemented new standards regarding tailings dam safety, construction, environmental licenses, and operations. As a result of these new standards, we temporarily idled operations at four tailings dams and the three related phosphate mines at Arax , Tapira, and Catal o while we implemented changes to comply with the new standards. The Catal o mine returned to full production in June 2019 and the Tapira and Arax mines returned to full production in September 2019. Until full operations resumed, we processed available rock inventory and imported rock from our mine in Peru to maintain production, albeit at lower rates. We supplemented with finished phosphates from our Florida operations to meet our Brazilian customers needs. In April 2019, we purchased the Pine Bend distribution facility in Rosemount, Minnesota, near the northern end of the Mississippi River, for $55 million. This large facility significantly improves our ability to serve customers in the U.S., allows us to capture time-place premiums, reduces our logistics risk and allows us to avoid capital investment in our older facilities in the same region. In response to slow market conditions throughout 2019, we took steps to reduce our fertilizer production until market conditions improve. In December, we announced that we plan to decrease phosphate production at our Central Florida facilities by 150,000 tonnes per month, in addition to the 500,000 tonne reduction we implemented 2 Table of Contents in the second half of 2019, primarily at our Louisiana facility. We also plan to continue to operate at lower rates at our Canadian potash mines. On October 10, 2019, we announced that we would temporarily curtail production at our Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine, bringing our total 2019 potash curtailment to approximately 600,000 tonnes, including the previously announced idling of our Colonsay, Saskatchewan potash mine earlier in 2019. The increased curtailment was based on increasing inventories as a result of a short-term slowdown in global potash markets and increased risks of a delay in the Chinese contract settlement. During the second quarter of 2019, we announced the permanent closure of the Plant City, Florida phosphate facility that was previously idled in late 2017, reaffirming our commitment to low-cost operations. For 2019, Plant City closure costs were approximately $341 million. As of October 31, 2019, the date of the annual impairment testing, we concluded that the carrying value of the Phosphates reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value due to a reduction in our long-term forecast. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $589 million. Following the end of our fiscal year, on January 28, 2020, we announced that we intend to keep our Colonsay, Saskatchewan potash mine idled for the foreseeable future. The mine will be placed in care and maintenance mode, employing minimal staff and allowing for resumption of operations when needed to meet customers needs. At December 31, 2019, we have recorded expense of approximately $530 million, pretax, primarily related to noncash fixed asset write-offs, and inclusive of severance expense of approximately $27 million. The write-off is principally the carrying value of the 2013 expansion project, which increased Colonsay s operating capacity to 2.1 million tonnes. Colonsay has been operating with a modified 1.5 million tonnes capacity since 2016, and the company does not expect to use the expansion capacity for the foreseeable future. We have included additional information about these and other developments in our business during 2019 in our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( Management s Analysis ) and in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughout the discussion below, we measure units of production, sales and raw materials in metric tonnes which are the equivalent of 2,205 pounds, unless we specifically state that we mean short or long ton(s), which are the equivalent of 2,000 pounds and 2,240 pounds, respectively. In addition, we measure natural gas, a raw material used in the production of our products, in MMBTU, which stands for one million British Thermal Units (BTU). One BTU is equivalent to 1.06 Joules. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION The discussion below of our business segment operations should be read in conjunction with the following information that we have included in this report: The risk factors discussed in this report in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Our Management s Analysis. The financial statements and supplementary financial information in our Consolidated Financial Statements ( Consolidated Financial Statements ). This information is incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Phosphates Segment Our Phosphates business segment owns and operates mines and production facilities in Florida which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. As part of the Acquisition, we acquired an additional 40% economic interest in the Miski Mayo Phosphate Mine in Peru, which increased our aggregate interest to 75%. The results of the Miski Mayo Mine are now included in our Phosphates segment. On June 18, 2019, we permanently closed our Plant City, Florida production facility. On September 24, 2019, Mosaic entered into a long-term lease agreement with Anuvia Plant Nutrition to lease certain assets at that location. The following map shows the locations of each of our phosphate concentrates plants in the United States and the locations of each of our active, temporarily idled, and planned phosphate mines in Florida. The reserves associated with our Ona location have been allocated to other active mines based on our future mining plans: 3 Table of Contents 4 Table of Contents The following map shows the location of the Miski Mayo phosphate mine in Peru: U.S. Phosphate Crop Nutrients and Animal Feed Ingredients Our U.S. phosphates operations have capacity to produce approximately 4.5 million tonnes of phosphoric acid ( P 2 O 5 ) per year, or about 7% of world annual capacity and about 58% of North American annual capacity. Phosphoric acid is produced by reacting finely ground phosphate rock with sulfuric acid. Phosphoric acid is the key building block for the production of high analysis or concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed products, and is the most comprehensive measure of phosphate capacity and production and a commonly used benchmark in our industry. Our U.S. phosphoric acid production totaled approximately 3.9 million tonnes during 2019 . Our U.S. operations account for approximately 9% of estimated global annual production and 60% of estimated North American annual output. Our phosphate crop nutrient products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors, retailers and farmers. Our principal phosphate crop nutrient products are: Diammonium Phosphate (18-46-0) Diammonium Phosphate ( DAP ) is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia in a reaction vessel. This initial reaction creates a slurry that is then pumped into a granulation plant where it is reacted with additional ammonia to produce DAP. DAP is a solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products such as urea and potash. Monoammonium Phosphate (11-52-0) Monoammonium Phosphate ( MAP ) is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient and the fastest growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia in a reaction vessel. The resulting slurry is then pumped into the granulation plant where it is reacted with additional phosphoric acid to produce MAP. MAP is a solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products. MicroEssentials is a value-added ammoniated phosphate product that is enhanced through a patented process that creates very thin platelets of sulfur and other micronutrients, such as zinc, on the granulated product. The patented process incorporates both the sulfate and elemental forms of sulfur, providing season-long availability to crops. 5 Table of Contents Production of our animal feed ingredients products is located at our New Wales, Florida facility. We market our feed phosphate primarily under the leading brand names of Biofos and Nexfos . Annual capacity by plant as of December 31, 2019 and production volumes by plant for 2019 are listed below: (tonnes in millions) Phosphoric Acid Processed Phosphate (a) /DAP/MAP/ MicroEssentials /Feed Phosphate Operational Capacity (b) Operational Capacity (b) Facility Production (c) Production (c) Florida: Bartow 1.1 1.1 2.5 2.4 New Wales 1.7 1.5 4.0 3.1 Riverview 0.9 0.8 1.8 1.6 3.7 3.4 8.3 7.1 Louisiana: Faustina (d) 1.6 1.0 Uncle Sam 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.5 1.6 1.0 Total 4.5 3.9 9.9 8.1 ______________________________ (a) Our ability to produce processed phosphates has been less than our annual operational capacity stated in the table above, except to the extent we purchase phosphoric acid. Factors affecting actual production are described in note (c) below. (b) Operational capacity is our estimated long-term capacity based on an average amount of scheduled down time, including maintenance and scheduled turnaround time, and product mix, and no significant modifications to operating conditions, equipment or facilities. (c) Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions. (d) On October 1, 2019, we temporarily idled our Louisiana phosphates operations to accelerate the reduction of high phosphate fertilizer inventories. The phosphoric acid produced at Uncle Sam is shipped to Faustina, where it is used to produce DAP, MAP and MicroEssentials . Our Faustina plant also manufactures ammonia that is mostly consumed in our concentrate plants. We produced approximately 7.6 million tonnes of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients during 2019 and accounted for approximately 74% of estimated North American annual production. Phosphate Rock Phosphate rock is the key mineral used to produce phosphate crop nutrients and feed phosphate. Our Florida phosphate rock mines produced approximately 12.2 million tonnes in 2019 and accounted for approximately 54% of estimated North American annual production. We are the world s second largest miner of phosphate rock (excluding China) and currently operate four mines in North America with a combined annual capacity of approximately 16.7 million tonnes. Additionally, we own 75% of the Miski Mayo Mine in Peru which has an annual capacity of 4.0 million tonnes. Production of one tonne of DAP requires between 1.6 and 1.7 tonnes of phosphate rock. All of our wholly owned phosphate mines and related mining operations in North America are located in central Florida. During 2019 , we operated three active mines in Florida: Four Corners, South Fort Meade and Wingate. On August 31, 2018, we temporarily idled our South Pasture, Florida phosphates mine. We plan to develop Ona and DeSoto reserves to replace reserves that will be depleted at various times during the next decade. As part of the Acquisition, we acquired an additional 40% economic interest in the Miski Mayo Mine in Peru, which increased our aggregate interest to 75%. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine allows us to supplement our other produced rock to meet our overall fertilizer production needs. Effective with the closing of the Acquisition, we have the right to use or sell to third parties 75% of Miski Mayo's annual production. 6 Table of Contents The phosphate deposits of Florida are of sedimentary origin and are part of a phosphate-bearing province that extends from southern Florida north along the Atlantic coast into southern Virginia. Our active Florida phosphate mines are primarily located in what is known as the Bone Valley Member of the Peace River Formation in the Central Florida Phosphate District. The southern portions of the Four Corners and Wingate mines are in what is referred to as the Undifferentiated Peace River Formation, in which the Ona and DeSoto reserves we plan to develop are also located. Phosphate mining has been conducted in the Central Florida Phosphate District since the late 1800 s. The potentially mineable portion of the district encompasses an area approximately 80 miles in length in a north-south direction and approximately 40 miles in width. In Florida, we extract phosphate ore using large surface mining machines that we own called draglines. Prior to extracting the ore, the draglines must first remove a 10 to 50 foot layer of sandy overburden. At our Wingate mine, we also utilize dredges to remove the overburden and mine the ore. We then process the ore at beneficiation plants that we own at each active mine where the ore goes through washing, screening, sizing and flotation processes designed to separate the phosphate rock from sands, clays and other foreign materials. Prior to commencing operations at any of our planned future mines, we may need to acquire new draglines or move existing draglines to the mines and, unless the beneficiation plant at an existing mine were used, construct a beneficiation plant. The phosphates deposits of Peru are located within the shallow north-trending Sechura Basin, in the Piura region, hosting successive inter-layered marine sediments of Phosphate. We extract phosphate ore from the Miski Mayo mine using excavators. The ore is then transported by truck to the feeding platform for supply of the feeder-breakers, which feeds the conveyor belt for the beneficiation plant that we own. The ore is then processed with successive stages of washing and gravimetric separations of seawater. The final stage of the process is washing with desalinated water to remove salts from the concentrate. The concentrate is then shipped to North America for use in our own production or sold to third parties. The following table shows, for each of our phosphate mines, annual capacity as of December 31, 2019 and rock production volume and grade for the years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017: (tonnes in millions) Annual Operational Capacity (a)(b) 2019 2018 2017 Facility Production (b) Average BPL (c) % P2O5 (d) Production (b) Average BPL (c) % P2O5 (d) Production (b) Average BPL (c) % P2O5 (d) Four Corners (e) 7.0 6.5 62.8 28.7 6.9 62.2 28.5 6.4 62.4 28.5 South Fort Meade 5.0 4.2 61.6 28.2 4.2 63.1 28.9 4.4 63.6 29.1 South Pasture (f) 3.2 1.5 62.5 28.6 2.8 62.6 28.6 Wingate 1.5 1.5 63.5 29.1 1.6 61.3 28.1 1.4 62.5 28.6 North America 16.7 12.2 62.5 28.6 14.2 62.4 28.6 15.0 62.8 28.7 Miski Mayo (g) (h) 4.0 4.0 64.7 29.6 4.1 64.9 29.7 Total 20.7 16.2 63.0 28.8 18.3 62.9 28.8 15.0 62.8 28.7 ______________________________ (a) Annual operational capacity is the expected average long-term annual capacity considering constraints represented by the grade, quality and quantity of the reserves being mined as well as equipment performance and other operational factors. (b) Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, the quality of the reserves, the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, weather conditions, and other operating conditions, as well as the effect of recent initiatives intended to improve operational excellence. (c) Bone Phosphate of Lime ( BPL ) is a traditional reference to the amount (by weight percentage) of calcium phosphate contained in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher BPL corresponds to a higher percentage of calcium phosphate. (d) The percent of P 2 O 5 in the above table represents a measure of the phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. 7 Table of Contents (e) Production at the Four Corners mine includes rock mined at the South Pasture Extension Mine in Hardee County from September 2018 to December 2018. (f) On August 31, 2018, we temporarily idled our South Pasture, Florida beneficiation plant for an indefinite period of time. (g) With the closing of the Acquisition on January 8, 2018, we acquired an additional 40% economic interest in the Miski Mayo phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region of Peru, bringing our aggregate interest to 75% in 2018. Their results are included in the Phosphates segment from the date of the Acquisition. (h) Annual operational capacity and production tonnes for Miski Mayo are presented on a wet tonne basis based on average moisture levels of 3.5% to 4.5% as it exits the drying process and is prepared for shipping. Operational capacity and production on a dry tonne basis would be 3.8 million tonnes and 3.9 million tonnes respectively. Reserves We estimate our phosphate rock reserves based upon exploration core drilling as well as technical and economic analyses to determine that reserves can be economically mined. Proven (measured) reserves are those resources of sufficient concentration to meet minimum physical, chemical and economic criteria related to our current product standards and mining and production practices. Our estimates of probable (indicated) reserves are based on information similar to that used for proven reserves, but sites for drilling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced than for proven reserves, although the degree of assurance is high enough to assume continuity between such sites. Proven reserves are determined using a minimum drill hole spacing in two locations per 40 acre block. Probable reserves have less than two drill holes per 40 acre block, but geological data provides a high degree of assurance that continuity exists between sites. The following table sets forth our proven and probable phosphate reserves as of December 31, 2019 : (tonnes in millions) Reserve Tonnes (a)(b)(c) Average BPL (d) % P 2 O 5 Active Mines Four Corners (f) 86.6 64.0 29.3 South Fort Meade 7.6 61.4 28.1 Wingate 26.2 62.1 28.4 Miski Mayo (g) 90.4 65.7 30.1 Total Active Mines 210.8 64.4 29.5 Temporarily Idled South Pasture 137.9 63.2 28.9 Planned Mining East Ona (h) 110.9 64.5 29.5 DeSoto 149.2 (e) 63.8 29.2 Total Planned Mining 260.1 64.1 29.3 Total Mining 608.8 64.0 29.3 ______________________________ (a) Reserves are in areas that are fully accessible for mining; free of surface or subsurface encumbrance, legal setbacks, wetland preserves and other legal restrictions that preclude permittable access for mining; believed by us to be permittable; and meet specified minimum physical, economic and chemical criteria related to current mining and production practices. (b) Reserve estimates are generally established by our personnel without a third party review. There has been no third party review of reserve estimates within the last five years. The reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). (c) Of the reserves shown, 498.3 million tonnes are proven reserves, while probable reserves totaled 20.1 million tonnes. (d) Average product BPL ranges from approximately 62% to 66%. (e) In connection with the purchase in 1996 of approximately 111.1 million tonnes of the reported DeSoto reserves, we agreed to (i) pay royalties of between $0.50 and $0.90 per ton of rock mined based on future levels of DAP margins, and (ii) pay to the seller lost income from the loss of surface use to the extent we use the property for mining related purposes before January 1, 2021. (f) The Four Corners reserves include the Ona West reserve tonnes. 8 Table of Contents (g) We pay royalties to the government of Peru based on a percentage of net sales and final determined price. These royalty payments average approximately $7 million annually. (h) The East Ona reserves are expected to be mined through our South Pasture and Four Corners mine locations. We generally own the reserves shown for active mines in the table above, with the only significant exceptions being further described below: We own the above-ground assets of the South Fort Meade mine, including the beneficiation plant, rail track and the initial clay settling areas. A limited partnership, South Ft. Meade Partnership, L.P. ( SFMP ), owns the majority of the mineable acres shown in the table for the South Fort Meade mine. We currently have a 95% economic interest in the profits and losses of SFMP. SFMP is included as a consolidated subsidiary in our financial statements. We have a long-term mineral lease with SFMP. This lease expires on the earlier of December 31, 2025 or on the date that we have completed mining and reclamation obligations associated with the leased property. Lease provisions include royalty payments and a commitment to give mining priority to the South Fort Meade phosphate reserves. We pay the partnership a royalty on each BPL short ton mined and shipped from the areas that we lease from it. Royalty payments to SFMP normally average approximately $11 million annually. Through its arrangements with us, SFMP also earns income from mineral lease payments, agricultural lease payments and interest income, and uses those proceeds primarily to pay dividends to its equity owners. The surface rights to approximately 942 acres for the South Fort Meade Mine are owned by SFMP, while the U.S. government owns the mineral rights beneath. We control the rights to mine these reserves under a mining lease agreement and pay royalties on the tonnage extracted. Under the lease, we paid an immaterial amount of royalties to the U.S. Government in 2019 . In light of the long-term natu