Item 1. Business 1 Overview 1 Business Segment Information 4 Sales and Distribution Activities 14 Competition 15 Factors Affecting Demand 17 Other Matters 17 Executive Officers 19 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 83 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 85 Part II: Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 86 Item 6. Reserved 87 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 87 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 87 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 87 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 87 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 87 Item 9B. Other Information 88 Part III: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11. Executive Compensation 89 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 89 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 Signatures S- 1 Financial Table of Contents F- 1 Table of Content PART I. Item 1. Business. OVERVIEW The Mosaic Company is the world s leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. Through our broad product offering, we are a single source supplier of phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients. We serve customers in approximately 40 countries. We are the second largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in North America and Brazil. We are the leading fertilizer production and distribution company in Brazil. We mine phosphate rock in Florida, Brazil and Peru. We process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida, Louisiana and Brazil. We are one of the four largest potash producers in the world. We mine potash in Saskatchewan, New Mexico and Brazil. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India and Paraguay, as well as a strategic equity investment in a joint venture that operates a phosphate rock mine and chemical complexes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our distribution operations serve the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world: China, India, the United States and Brazil. The Mosaic Company is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in March 2004 and serves as the parent company of the business that was formed through the October 2004 combination of IMC Global Inc. ( IMC ) and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill, Incorporated. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol MOS and are headquartered in Tampa, Florida. We conduct our business through wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling interest. We are organized into three reportable business segments: Phosphates, Potash and Mosaic Fertilizantes. Intersegment eliminations, unrealized mark-to-market gains/losses on derivatives, debt expenses, Streamsong Resort results of operations, and the results of the China and India distribution businesses are included within Corporate, Eliminations and Other. The following charts show the respective contributions to 2021 sales volumes, net sales and gross margin for each of our business segments in effect at December 31, 2021: We account for approximately 12% of estimated global annual phosphate production. We also account for approximately 12% of estimated global annual potash production. Phosphates Segment We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. We account for approximately 70% of estimated North American annual production of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. 1 Table of Content Potash Segment We sell potash throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed ingredients. We account for approximately 33% of estimated North American annual potash production. Mosaic Fertilizantes Segment We produce and sell phosphate and potash-based crop nutrients, and animal feed ingredients, in Brazil. In addition to five phosphate rock mines, four chemical plants and a potash mine in Brazil, this segment consists of sales offices, crop nutrient blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and warehouses in Brazil and Paraguay. The Mosaic Fertilizantes segment also serves as a distribution outlet for our Phosphates and Potash segments. We account for approximately 65% of estimated annual production of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in Brazil and 100% of estimated annual potash production in Brazil. As used in this report: Mosaic or Company means The Mosaic Company; we , us , and our refer to Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination; Cargill means Cargill, Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination; Cargill Crop Nutrition means the crop nutrient business we acquired from Cargill in the Combination; Combination means the October 22, 2004 combination of IMC and Cargill Crop Nutrition; and statements as to our industry position reflect information from the most recent period available. Business Developments during 2021 During the second quarter of 2021, due to increased brine inflows, we made the decision to accelerate the timing of the shutdown of our K1 and K2 mine shafts at our Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mine. Closing the K1 and K2 shafts are key pieces of the transition to the K3 shaft, but the timeline for the closure was accelerated by approximately nine months. We recognized pre-tax costs of $158.1 million related to the permanent closure of these facilities. In the third quarter of 2021, we resumed production at our previously idled Colonsay potash mine to offset a portion of the production lost by the early closure of the K1 and K2 shafts at Esterhazy. In December 2021, the K3 shaft became fully operational and is expected to reach full operating capacity in the first quarter of 2022. The closure of the K1 and K2 shafts will eliminate future brine management expenses at these sites. In August 2021 we entered into a new, unsecured five-year credit facility of up to $2.5 billion, with a maturity date of August 19, 2026, which replaces our prior $2.2 billion line of credit. This increase in size provides additional security and flexibility and reflects the growth in our business. In August 2021 we prepaid the outstanding balance of $450 million on our 3.75% senior notes, due November 15, 2021, without premium or penalty. During the third quarter of 2021, our Board of Directors approved a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization (the 2021 Repurchase Program ), replacing our previous $1.5 billion authorization (the 2015 Repurchase Program ) that had $700 million remaining. This new, expanded authorization reflects our unchanged commitment to a balanced deployment of excess capital that includes returning capital to stockholders. During 2021, we repurchased 11,200,371 shares of Common Stock, including 8,544,144 shares that we purchased in an underwritten secondary offering by Vale S.A., at an average price of $36.69, for a total of approximately $410.9 million. In November 2021, Vale S.A. sold its 34,176,574 shares of common stock of Mosaic in an underwritten secondary offering. Vale S.A. no longer holds any shares of Mosaic common stock. In the fourth quarter of 2021, our Board of Directors approved a 50% increase in our annual dividend, to $0.45 per share, beginning in 2022. In 2020, we filed petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce ( DOC ) and the U.S. International Trade Commission ( ITC ) that requested the initiation of countervailing duty investigations into imports of phosphate fertilizers from Morocco and Russia. The purpose of the petitions was to remedy the distortions that we believe foreign subsidies have caused or are causing in the U.S. market for phosphate fertilizers, and thereby restore fair competition. During the first quarter of 2021, the DOC made final affirmative determinations that countervailable subsidies were being provided by those governments and the ITC made final affirmative determinations that the U.S. 2 Table of Content phosphate fertilizer industry is materially injured by reason of subsidized phosphate fertilizer imports from Morocco and Russia. As a result of these determinations, the DOC issued countervailing duty orders on phosphate fertilizer imports from Russia and Morocco, which are scheduled to remain in place for at least five years. Currently, the cash deposit rates for such imports are approximately 20 percent for Moroccan producer OCP, 9 percent and 47 percent for Russian producers PhosAgro and Eurochem, respectively, and 17 percent for all other Russian producers. The final determinations in the DOC and ITC investigations are subject to possible challenges before U.S. federal courts and the World Trade Organization, and Mosaic has initiated actions at the U.S. Court of International Trade contesting certain aspects of the DOC s final determinations that, we believe, failed to capture the full extent of Moroccan and Russian phosphate fertilizer subsidies. Moroccan and Russian producers have also initiated U.S. Court of International Trade actions, seeking lower cash deposit rates and revocation of the countervailing duty orders. Further, the cash deposit rates and the amount of countervailing duties owed by importers on such imports could change based on the results of the DOC s annual administrative review proceedings. In response to Covid-19, we continued to implement measures in 2021 that were intended to provide for the immediate health and safety of our employees, including working remotely and alternating work schedules, in order to minimize the number of employees at a single location. Businesses have been impacted by short-term labor shortages due to illness, transportation issues such as trucking delays and port congestion which are slowing delivery of inputs to facilities and products to end customers. At this time, we have experienced limited adverse financial or operational impacts related to Covid-19. Subsequent to December 31, 2021, we expect to enter into an accelerated share repurchase ( ASR ) of $400 million, which would be initiated in February 2022. Following the completion of the current authorization, our Board of Directors has approved the establishment of a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization, which will go into effect following completion of this ASR. The Board of Directors has also approved a regular dividend increase to $0.60 per share annually from $0.45, beginning with the second quarter 2022 payment. We have included additional information about these and other developments in our business during 2021 in our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( Management s Analysis ) and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughout the discussion below, we measure units of production, sales and raw materials in metric tonnes, which are the equivalent of 2,205 pounds, or 1.102 tons (U.S. standard), unless we specifically state that we mean short or long ton(s), which are the equivalent of 2,000 pounds and 2,240 pounds, respectively. In addition, we measure natural gas, a raw material used in the production of our products, in MM BTU, which stands for one million British Thermal Units ( BTU ). One BTU is equivalent to 1.06 Joules. This report includes market share and industry data and forecasts that we obtained from publicly available information and industry publications, surveys, market research, internal company surveys and consultant surveys. We believe these sources to be reliable, but there can be no assurance as to the accuracy and completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the data from third-party sources, nor have we ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein. Similarly, internal company surveys, industry forecasts and market research, which we believe to be reliable based upon management s knowledge of the industry, have not been verified by any independent sources. Application of SEC s New Mining Rules Under Regulation S-K 1300 On October 31, 2018, The U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (the SEC ) adopted Subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K ( S-K 1300 ) to modernize the property disclosure requirements for mining registrants. Information concerning our mining properties in this Form 10-K has been prepared in accordance with these requirements. These requirements differ significantly from the previously applicable disclosure requirements of SEC Industry Guide 7. Among other differences, S-K 1300 requires us to disclose our mineral resources, in addition to our mineral reserves, as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year both in the aggregate and for each of our individually material mining properties. The calculation of mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and under S-K 1300 are significantly different which may lead to differences in reserve reporting. We have four material properties: Belle Plaine, Esterhazy, Florida and Tapira. See Item 2. Properties, for further information regarding mineral reserves and resource and discussion of our material mining properties. 3 Table of Content BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION The discussion below of our business segment operations should be read in conjunction with the following information that we have included in this report: The risk factors discussed in this report in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Our Management s Analysis. The financial statements and supplementary financial information in our Consolidated Financial Statements ( Consolidated Financial Statements ). This information is incorporated by reference into this section from Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . Phosphates Segment Our Phosphates business segment owns and operates mines and production facilities in Florida which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. We have a 75% economic interest in the Miski Mayo Phosphate Mine in Peru Miski Mayo Mine ), which is included in the results of our Phosphates segment. O n June 18, 2019, we permanently closed our Plant City, Florida production facility. On September 24, 2019, Mosaic entered into a long-term lease agreement with Anuvia Plant Nutrition to lease certain assets at that location. The following map shows the locations of each of our phosphate concentrates plants in the United States and each of our active, temporarily idled, and planned phosphate mine locations, including beneficiation plants, in Florida. The reserves associated with our Ona location have been allocated to other active mines based on our future mining plans: 4 Table of Content U.S. Phosphate Crop Nutrients and Animal Feed Ingredients Our U.S. phosphates operations have capacity to produce approximately 4.5 million tonnes of phosphoric acid ( P 2 O 5 ) per year, or about 7% of world annual capacity and about 60% of North American annual capacity. P 2 O 5 is produced by reacting finely ground phosphate rock with sulfuric acid. P 2 O 5 is the key building block for the production of high analysis or concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed products, and is the most comprehensive measure of phosphate capacity and production and a commonly used benchmark in our industry. Our U.S. P 2 O 5 production totaled approximately 3.4 million tonnes during 2021. Our U.S. operations account for approximately 7% of estimated global annual production and 51% of estimated North American annual output. Our phosphate crop nutrient products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors, retailers and farmers. Our principal phosphate crop nutrient products are: Diammonium Phosphate (18-46-0) Diammonium Phosphate ( DAP ) is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia in a reaction vessel. This initial reaction creates a slurry that is then pumped into a granulation plant where it is reacted with additional ammonia to produce DAP. DAP is a solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products, such as urea and potash. Monoammonium Phosphate (11-52-0) Monoammonium Phosphate ( MAP ) is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient and the fastest growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia in a reaction vessel. The resulting slurry is then pumped into the granulation plant where it is reacted with additional P 2 O 5 to produce MAP. MAP is a solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products. MicroEssentials is a value-added ammoniated phosphate product that is enhanced through a patented process that creates very thin platelets of sulfur and other micronutrients, such as zinc, on the granulated product. The patented process incorporates both the sulfate and elemental forms of sulfur, providing season-long availability to crops. Production of our animal feed ingredients products is located at our New Wales, Florida facility. We market our feed phosphate primarily under the leading brand names of Biofos and Nexfos . Annual capacity by plant as of December 31, 2021 and production volumes by plant for 2021 are listed below: (tonnes in millions) Phosphoric Acid Processed Phosphate (a) /DAP/MAP/ MicroEssentials /Feed Phosphate Operational Capacity (b) Operational Capacity (b) Facility Production (c) Production (c) Florida: Bartow 1.1 1.0 2.5 2.2 New Wales 1.7 1.2 4.0 2.6 Riverview 0.9 0.8 1.8 1.6 3.7 3.0 8.3 6.4 Louisiana: Faustina (d) 1.6 0.9 Uncle Sam (d) 0.8 0.4 0.8 0.4 1.6 0.9 Total 4.5 3.4 9.9 7.3 ______________________________ (a) Our ability to produce processed phosphates has been less than our annual operational capacity stated in the table above, except to the extent we purchase P 2 O 5 . Factors affecting actual production are described in note (c) below. (b) Operational capacity is our estimated long-term capacity based on an average amount of scheduled down time, including maintenance and scheduled turnaround time, and product mix, and no significant modifications to operating conditions, equipment or facilities. (c) Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include, among others, the level of demand for our products, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions. 5 Table of Content (d) Our Louisiana facilities experienced lower production as a result of downtime from sulfur supply constraints and damage from Hurricane Ida. The P 2 O 5 produced at Uncle Sam is shipped to Faustina, where it is used to produce DAP, MAP and MicroEssentials . Our Faustina plant also manufactures ammonia that is mostly consumed in our concentrate plants. We produced approximately 6.9 million tonnes of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients during 2021 and accounted for approximately 70% of estimated North American annual production. Phosphate Rock Phosphate rock is the key mineral used to produce phosphate crop nutrients and feed phosphate. Our Florida phosphate rock mines produced approximately 12.2 million tonnes in 2021 and accounted for approximately 51% of estimated North American annual production. We are the world s second largest miner of phosphate rock (excluding China) and currently operate four mines in North America with a combined annual capacity of approximately 18.0 million tonnes. Additionally, we own 75% of the Miski Mayo Mine in Peru, which has an annual capacity of 4.0 million tonnes. Production of one tonne of DAP requires between 1.6 and 1.7 tonnes of phosphate rock. All of our wholly owned phosphate mines and related mining operations in North America are located in central Florida. During 2021, we operated three active mines in Florida: Four Corners, South Fort Meade and Wingate. We plan to explore and develop the DeSoto property and the South Pasture property, which was previously idled, to offset future depletion at our Florida properties. We have a 75% economic interest in the Miski Mayo Mine in Peru, which allows us to supplement our other produced rock to meet our overall fertilizer production needs and is the primary source of rock for our Louisiana operations. We have the right to use or sell to third parties 75% of Miski Mayo s annual production. See Item 2. Properties for a discussion of our phosphate mining properties, including processing methods, facilities, production and summaries of our mineral resources and reserves, both in the aggregate and for our individual material phosphate mining properties. Investment in Ma aden Wa ad Al Shamal Phosphate Company ( MWSPC ) We own a 25% interest in MWSPC and, in connection with our equity share, we are entitled to market approximately 25% of MWSPC s production. MWSPC consists of a mine and two chemical complexes (the Project ) that produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream phosphates products in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The greenfield project was built in the northern region of Saudi Arabia at Wa ad Al Shamal Minerals Industrial City, and included further expansion of processing plants in Ras Al Khair Minerals Industrial City, which is located on the east coast of Saudi Arabia. Ammonia operations commenced in late 2016 and on December 1, 2018, MWSPC commenced commercial operations of the phosphate plant, thereby bringing the entire project to the commercial production phase. Phosphate production will gradually ramp-up until it reaches an expected 3.0 million tonnes in annual production capacity. Actual phosphate production was 2.4 million tonnes in 2021. The Project benefits from the availability of key raw nutrients from sources within Saudi Arabia. Our cash investment in the Project was $770 million at December 31, 2021. Our obligation to contribute additional equity was eliminated as part of the Project debt refinancing in 2020. Sulfur We use molten sulfur at our phosphates concentrates plants to produce sulfuric acid, primarily for use in our production of P 2 O 5 . We purchased approximately 3.7 million long tons of sulfur during 2021. We purchase the majority of this sulfur from North American oil and natural gas refiners who are required to remove or recover sulfur during the refining process. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.40 long tons of sulfur. We procure our sulfur from multiple sources and receive it by truck, rail, barge and vessel, either directly at our phosphate plants or have it sent for gathering to terminals that are located on the U.S. gulf coast. In addition, we use formed sulfur received through Tampa, Florida ports, which are delivered by truck to our New Wales facility and melted through our sulfur melter. We own and operate a sulfur terminal in Riverview, Florida. We also lease terminal space in Tampa, Florida and Galveston and Beaumont, Texas. We have long-term time charters on two ocean-going tugs/barges and one ocean-going vessel that transports molten sulfur from the Texas terminals to Tampa. We then further transport by truck to our Florida phosphate plants. In addition, we own a 50% equity interest in Gulf Sulphur Services Ltd., LLLP ( Gulf Sulphur Services ), which is operated by our joint venture partner. Gulf Sulphur Services has a sulfur transportation and terminaling business in the Gulf 6 Table of Content of Mexico, and handles these functions for a substantial portion of our Florida sulfur volume. Our sulfur logistic assets also include a large fleet of leased railcars that supplement our marine sulfur logistic system. Our Louisiana operations are served by truck from nearby refineries. Although sulfur is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphate facilities by a variety of means, sulfur is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been, and may in the future, be the subject of volatile pricing and availability. Alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to current transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of sulfur or disruptions to sulfur transportation or terminaling facilities could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of sulfur prices in our Management s Analysis. Ammonia We use ammonia together with P 2 O 5 to produce DAP, MAP and MicroEssentials . We consumed approximately 1.1 million tonnes of ammonia during 2021. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.23 tonnes of ammonia. We purchase approximately one-third of our ammonia from various suppliers in the spot market with the remaining two-thirds either purchased through our ammonia supply agreement (the CF Ammonia Supply Agreement ) with an affiliate of CF Industries Inc. ( CF ) or produced internally at our Faustina, Louisiana location. Our Florida ammonia needs are currently supplied under multi-year contracts with both domestic and offshore producers. Ammonia for our Bartow and Riverview plants is terminaled through owned ammonia facilities at the Port of Tampa and Port Sutton, Florida. Ammonia for our New Wales plant is terminaled through another ammonia facility owned and operated by a third party at Port Sutton, Florida pursuant to an agreement that provides for service through 2022, with automatic renewal for an additional two-year period unless either party terminates, as provided in the agreement. Ammonia is transported by pipeline from the terminals to our production facilities. We have service agreements with the operators of the pipelines for Bartow, New Wales, and Riverview, which provide service through June 30, 2022 with annual auto-renewal provisions unless either party objects. Under the CF Ammonia Supply Agreement, Mosaic agreed to purchase approximately 523,000 to 725,000 metric tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that commenced in 2017 and may extend until December 31, 2032, at a price tied to the prevailing price of U.S. natural gas. The contract provides for early termination at certain dates. For 2021, our minimum purchase obligation was approximately 523,000 metric tonnes, and actual purchases were 580,000 metric tonnes. A specialized tug and barge unit transports ammonia for Mosaic between a load location at Donaldsonville, Louisiana and a discharge location at Tampa, Florida. Additional information about this chartered unit and its financing is provided in Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We expect a majority of the ammonia purchased under the CF Ammonia Supply Agreement to be received by barge at the Port of Tampa and delivered to our Florida facilities as described in the preceding paragraph. While the market prices of natural gas and ammonia have changed since we executed the CF Ammonia Supply Agreement in 2013 and will continue to change, we expect that the agreement will provide us a competitive advantage over its term, including by providing a reliable long-term ammonia supply. We produce ammonia at Faustina, Louisiana primarily for our own consumption. Our annual capacity is approximately 530,000 tonnes. From time to time, we sell surplus ammonia to unrelated parties and/or may transport surplus ammonia to the Port of Tampa. In addition, under certain circumstances we are permitted to receive ammonia at Faustina under the CF Ammonia Supply Agreement. Although ammonia is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphates facilities by a variety of means, ammonia is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been, and may in the future be, the subject of volatile pricing. In addition, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of ammonia or disruptions to ammonia transportation or terminaling could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of ammonia prices in our Management s Analysis. Natural Gas for Phosphates Natural gas is the primary raw material used to manufacture ammonia. At our Faustina facility, ammonia is manufactured on site. The majority of natural gas is purchased through firm delivery contracts based on published index-based prices and is sourced from Texas and Louisiana via pipelines interconnected to the Henry Hub. We use over-the-counter swap and/or 7 Table of Content option contracts to forward price portions of future natural gas purchases. We typically purchase approximately 11.3 million MM Btu of natural gas per year for use in ammonia production at Faustina. Our ammonia requirements for our Florida operations are purchased rather than manufactured on site. Therefore, while we typically purchase approximately 2.5 million MM Btu of natural gas per year in Florida, it is only used as a thermal fuel for various phosphate