Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results 41 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 43 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 43 Executive Officers of the Registrant 44 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 48 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 78 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 79 (a) Financial Statements 79 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 83 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 140 (b) Supplementary Data 142 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 143 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 143 Management s Report 143 Item 9B. Other Information 144 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 144 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 145 Item 11. Executive Compensation 145 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 146 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 146 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 146 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 147 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 151 Signatures 152 Table o f Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Merck Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products. The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and include two operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health segments, both of which are reportable segments. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceutical and vaccine products, as well as health management solutions and services, for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock and companion animal species. The Company also offers an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. The Company sells its products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. The Company previously had a Healthcare Services segment that provided services and solutions focused on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. The Company divested the remaining businesses in this segment in the first quarter of 2020. All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners. Spin-Off of Organon Co. On June 2, 2021, Merck completed the spin-off (the Spin-Off) of products from its women s health, biosimilars and established brands businesses into a new, independent, publicly traded company named Organon Co. (Organon) through a distribution of Organon s publicly traded stock to Company shareholders. The established brands included in the transaction consisted of dermatology, non-opioid pain management, respiratory, select cardiovascular products, as well as the rest of Merck s diversified brands franchise. Merck s existing research pipeline programs continue to be owned and developed within Merck as planned. 1 Table o f Contents Product Sales Total Company sales, including sales of the Company s top pharmaceutical products, as well as sales of animal health products, were as follows: ($ in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Total Sales $ 48,704 $ 41,518 $ 39,121 Pharmaceutical 42,754 36,610 34,100 Keytruda 17,186 14,380 11,084 Gardasil/Gardasil 9 5,673 3,938 3,737 Januvia/Janumet 5,288 5,276 5,524 ProQuad/M-M-R II /Varivax 2,135 1,878 2,275 Bridion 1,532 1,198 1,131 Alliance revenue - Lynparza (1) 989 725 444 Molnupiravir 952 Pneumovax 23 893 1,087 926 Simponi 825 838 830 RotaTeq 807 797 791 Isentress/Isentress HD 769 857 975 Alliance revenue - Lenvima (1) 704 580 404 Animal Health 5,568 4,703 4,393 Livestock 3,295 2,939 2,784 Companion Animals 2,273 1,764 1,609 Other Revenues (2) 382 205 628 (1) Alliance revenue represents Merck s share of profits, which are product sales net of cost of sales and commercialization costs. (2) Other revenues are primarily comprised of third-party manufacturing sales and miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities. Pharmaceutical The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines. Certain of the products within the Company s franchises are as follows: Oncology Keytruda (pembrolizumab), the Company s anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy, as monotherapy for the treatment of certain patients with cervical cancer, classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL), cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC), esophageal or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) carcinoma, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), melanoma, Merkel cell carcinoma, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) cancer (solid tumors), including MSI-H/dMMR colorectal cancer (CRC), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) cancer (solid tumors), and urothelial carcinoma, including non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. Keytruda is also approved for the treatment of certain patients in combination with chemotherapy for metastatic squamous and non-squamous NSCLC, in combination with chemotherapy for HNSCC, in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy for human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma, in combination with platinum-and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy for esophageal or GEJ carcinoma, in combination with chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, for cervical cancer, in combination with chemotherapy for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), in combination with axitinib for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and in combination with lenvatinib for endometrial carcinoma or RCC. Keytruda is also approved for certain patients with high-risk early-stage TNBC in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. Keytruda is also approved as a monotherapy for the adjuvant treatment of certain patients with RCC. In addition, the Company recognizes alliance revenue related to sales of Lynparza (olaparib), an oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, for certain types of advanced ovarian, breast, pancreatic, and prostate cancers; and Lenvima (lenvatinib) for certain types of 2 Table o f Contents thyroid cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, in combination with everolimus for certain patients with RCC, and in combination with Keytruda for certain patients with endometrial carcinoma or RCC. Vaccines Gardasil (Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant)/ Gardasil 9 (Human Papillomavirus 9-valent Vaccine, Recombinant), vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV); ProQuad (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M M R II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella; Varivax (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella); Pneumovax 23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease; RotaTeq (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and Vaqta (hepatitis A vaccine, inactivated) indicated for the prevention of disease caused by hepatitis A virus in persons 12 months of age and older. Hospital Acute Care Bridion (sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery; Prevymis (letermovir) for the prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation and disease in adult CMV-seropositive recipients [R+] of an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant; Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin) for injection, an antibiotic for the treatment of certain bacterial infections; Noxafil (posaconazole), an antifungal agent for the prevention of certain invasive fungal infections; Cancidas (caspofungin acetate) for injection, an anti-fungal agent for the treatment of certain fungal infections; Invanz (ertapenem) for injection, an antibiotic for the treatment of certain bacterial infections; and Zerbaxa (ceftolozane and tazobactam) for injection, a combination antibacterial and beta-lactamase inhibitor for the treatment of certain bacterial infections. Immunology Simponi (golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases; and Remicade (infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, both of which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Turkey. Neuroscience Belsomra (suvorexant), an orexin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of insomnia, characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. Virology Molnupiravir, an investigational oral antiviral COVID-19 medicine; Isentress/Isentress HD (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. Cardiovascular Adempas (riociguat), a cardiovascular drug for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension; Verquvo (vericiguat), a medicine to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and heart failure hospitalization following a hospitalization for heart failure or need for outpatient intravenous diuretics in certain adults with symptomatic chronic heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. Diabetes Januvia (sitagliptin) and Janumet (sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Animal Health The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceuticals, vaccines and health management solutions and services, as well as an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. Principal products in this segment include: Livestock Products Nuflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine; Bovilis / Vista vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle; Banamine (Flunixin meglumine) bovine and swine anti-inflammatory; Estrumate (cloprostenol sodium) for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle; Matrix (altrenogest) fertility management for swine; Resflor (florfenicol and flunixin meglumine) , a combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 3 Table o f Contents drug for bovine respiratory disease; Zuprevo (Tildipirosin) for bovine respiratory disease; Zilmax (zilpaterol hydrochloride) and Revalor (trenbolone acetate and estradiol) to improve production efficiencies in beef cattle; Safe-Guard (fenbendazole) de-wormer for cattle; M+Pac (Mycoplasma Hyopneumoniae Bacterin) swine pneumonia vaccine; Porcilis (Lawsonia intracellularis baterin) and Circumvent (Porcine Circovirus Vaccine, Type 2, Killed Baculovirus Vector) vaccine lines for infectious diseases in swine; Nobilis / Innovax (Live Marek s Disease Vector) , vaccine lines for poultry; Paracox and Coccivac coccidiosis vaccines; Exzolt , a systemic treatment for poultry red mite infestations; Slice (Emamectin benzoate) parasiticide for sea lice in salmon; Aquavac (Avirulent Live Culture)/ Norvax vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish; Compact PD vaccine for salmon; Aquaflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic for farm-raised fish; and Allflex Livestock Intelligence solutions for animal identification, monitoring and traceability. Companion Animal Products Bravecto , a line of oral and topical parasitic control products, including the original Bravecto (fluralaner) products for dogs and cats that last up to 12 weeks; Bravecto (fluralaner) One-Month , a monthly product for dogs, and Bravecto Plus (fluralaner/moxidectin), a two-month product for cats; Sentinel, a line of oral parasitic products for dogs including Sentinel Spectrum (milbemycin oxime, lufenuron, and praziquantel) and Sentinel Flavor Tabs (milbemycin oxime, lufenuron); Optimmune (cyclosporine), an ophthalmic ointment; Nobivac vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination; Otomax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP; Betamethasone valerate USP; and Clotrimazole USP ointment)/ Mometamax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Clotrimazole, USP, Otic Suspension)/ Posatex (Orbifloxacin, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Posaconazole, Suspension) ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis; Caninsulin / Vetsulin (porcine insulin zinc suspension) diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats; Panacur (fenbendazole)/ Safeguard (fenbendazole) broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; Regumate (altrenogest) fertility management for horses; Prestige vaccine line for horses; Scalibor (Deltamethrin) /Exspot for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies; and Sure Petcare products for companion animal identification and well-being, including the microchip and pet recovery system Home Again . For a further discussion of sales of the Company s products, see Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. 2021 Product Approvals and Authorizations Set forth below is a summary of significant product approvals and authorizations received by the Company in 2021. Product Date Approval Keytruda January 2021 European Commission (EC) approved Keytruda as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with MSI-H or dMMR CRC. March 2021 EC approved Keytruda as monotherapy for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 3 years and older with relapsed or refractory cHL who have failed autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) or following at least two prior therapies when ASCT is not a treatment option. March 2021 U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Keytruda in combination with platinum- and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic esophageal or GEJ (tumors with epicenter 1 to 5 centimeters above the GEJ) carcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation. May 2021 FDA approved Keytruda , in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma. June 2021 China s National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approved Keytruda as a monotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic MSI-H or dMMR CRC that is KRAS, NRAS and BRAF all wild-type. 4 Table o f Contents Keytruda June 2021 EC approved Keytruda in combination with platinum- and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic carcinoma of the esophagus or HER2-negative GEJ adenocarcinoma in adults whose tumors express PD-L1 (Combined Positive Score [CPS] 10). July 2021 FDA approved Keytruda as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced cSCC that is not curable by surgery or radiation. July 2021 FDA approved Keytruda plus Lenvima for the treatment of patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma that is not MSI-H or dMMR, who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy in any setting and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation. July 2021 FDA approved Keytruda for the treatment of patients with high-risk, early-stage TNBC in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, then continued as single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. August 2021 FDA approved Keytruda for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who are not eligible for any platinum-containing chemotherapy. August 2021 Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) approved Keytruda for the treatment of patients with PD-L1-positive, hormone receptor-negative and HER2-negative, inoperable or recurrent breast cancer. August 2021 PMDA approved Keytruda for the treatment of patients with unresectable, advanced or recurrent MSI-H CRC. August 2021 FDA approved Keytruda plus Lenvima for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC. September 2021 NMPA approved Keytruda in combination with platinum- and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy for first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic carcinoma of the esophageal or GEJ. October 2021 FDA approved Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, for the treatment of patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS 1) as determined by an FDA-approved test. October 2021 EC approved Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of locally recurrent unresectable or metastatic TNBC in adults whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS 1) and who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. November 2021 FDA approved Keytruda for the adjuvant treatment of patients with RCC at intermediate-high or high risk of recurrence following nephrectomy, or following nephrectomy and resection of metastatic lesions. November 2021 EC approved Keytruda plus Lenvima as a first-line treatment for adult patients with advanced RCC. 5 Table o f Contents Keytruda November 2021 EC approved Keytruda plus Lenvima for the treatment of advanced or recurrent endometrial carcinoma in adults who have disease progression on or following prior treatment with a platinum containing therapy in any setting and who are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation. November 2021 PMDA approved Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy (5-fluorouracil plus cisplatin) for the first-line treatment of patients with radically unresectable, advanced or recurrent esophageal carcinoma. December 2021 FDA approved Keytruda as a monotherapy for the adjuvant treatment of adult and pediatric (12 years and older) patients with stage IIB or IIC melanoma following complete resection. The FDA also expanded the indication for Keytruda as adjuvant treatment for stage III melanoma following complete resection to include pediatric patients (12 years and older). December 2021 Japan s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) approved Keytruda in combination with Lenvima for the treatment of patients with unresectable, advanced or recurrent endometrial carcinoma that progressed after cancer chemotherapy. Lynparza (1) June 2021 NMPA approved Lynparza as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with germline or somatic BRCA -mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who have progressed following prior treatment that included a new hormonal agent (abiraterone, enzalutamide). molnupiravir (2) December 2021 FDA granted Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for molnupiravir to treat mild to moderate COVID-19 in adults with positive results of direct SARS-CoV-2 viral testing, and who are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death, and for whom alternative COVID-19 treatment options authorized by the FDA are not accessible or clinically appropriate. December 2021 MHLW granted molnupiravir Special Approval for Emergency for the treatment of infectious disease caused by SARS-CoV-2. Vaxneuvance July 2021 FDA approved Vaxneuvance for active immunization for the prevention of invasive disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 22F, 23F and 33F in adults 18 years of age and older. December 2021 EC approved Vaxneuvance for active immunization for the prevention of invasive disease and pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in individuals 18 years of age and older. Verquvo (3) January 2021 FDA approved Verquvo to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and heart failure (HF) hospitalization following a hospitalization for heart failure or need for outpatient intravenous (IV) diuretics in adults with symptomatic chronic HF and ejection fraction less than 45%. July 2021 EC approved Verquvo for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure in adult patients with reduced ejection fraction who are stabilized after a recent decompensation event requiring IV therapy. Welireg August 2021 FDA approved Welireg for adult patients with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease who require therapy for associated RCC, central nervous system hemangioblastomas, or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, not requiring immediate surgery. (1) Being jointly developed and commercialized in a worldwide collaboration with AstraZeneca . (2) Being jointly developed and commercialized in a worldwide collaboration with Ridgeback Biopharmaceuticals LP. Molnupiravir has not been approved by the FDA but has been authorized for emergency use. (3) Being jointly developed and commercialized in a worldwide collaboration with Bayer AG. 6 Table o f Contents Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers, and animal health care companies. The Company s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the payment of royalties or in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well-positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements and collaborations and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company s products in that therapeutic category. The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s products as well as competitors products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. Health Care Environment and Government Regulation Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. Changes to the U.S. health care system as part of health care reform enacted in prior years, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, have contributed to pricing pressure. In several international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, the Company s revenue performance in 2021 was negatively affected by other cost-reduction measures taken by governments and other third parties to lower health care costs. In the U.S., the Biden Administration and Congress continue to discuss legislation designed to control health care costs, including the cost of drugs. The Company anticipates all of these actions and additional actions in the future will continue to negatively affect revenue performance. United States The Company faces increasing pricing pressure from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins, including, through (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). In the U.S., federal and state governments for many years have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal and state laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for medicines purchased by certain state and federal entities such as the Department of Defense, Veterans Affairs, Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. 7 Table o f Contents Additionally in the U.S., consolidation and integration among health care providers is a major factor in the competitive marketplace for pharmaceutical products. Health plans and pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for Merck s products or obtaining such placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely affect revenue. In addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been increasing the cost-sharing required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. Private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. These same management tools are also used in treatment areas in which the payor has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. As the U.S. payor market concentrates further, pharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payors. In order to provide information about the Company s pricing practices, the Company annually posts on its website its Pricing Transparency Report for the U.S. The report provides the Company s average annual list price, net price increases, and average discounts across the Company s U.S. portfolio dating back to 2010. In 2021, the Company s gross U.S. sales were reduced by 43.5% as a result of rebates, discounts and returns. Legislative Changes In 2021, Congress actively considered multiple versions of drug pricing legislation that could significantly impact branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. This legislation would implement a government negotiation plan for certain products covered by Medicare Parts B and D, institute financial penalties for price increases above inflation, and redesign the Medicare Part D program to include a cap on patients out of pocket costs and realign the liability for costs of the benefit among manufacturers, health plans, and the government. It is unclear when or if this legislation will be passed by Congress, and it remains very uncertain as to what other proposals, if any,