Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 160 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 209 Item 2. Properties 209 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 209 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 209 PART II . Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 210 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 211 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 213 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 228 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 229 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 287 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 287 Item 9B. Other Information 289 PART III . Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 290 Item 11. Executive Compensation 290 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 290 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 290 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 290 PART IV . Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 291 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 293 Signatures SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains express or implied forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We intend these forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are including this statement for purposes of complying with those safe harbor provisions. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our management s belief and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements relate to future events or our future operational or financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: the initiation, timing, progress, results, and cost of our research and development programs and our current and future preclinical studies and clinical trials, including statements regarding the timing of initiation and completion of studies or trials and related preparatory work, the period during which the results of the trials will become available, and our research and development programs; our anticipated next steps for our development candidates and investigational medicines; our ability to identify research priorities and apply a risk-mitigated strategy to efficiently discover and develop development candidates and investigational medicines, including by applying learnings from one program to our other programs and from one modality to our other modalities; our ability and the potential to successfully manufacture our drug substances, delivery vehicles, development candidates, and investigational medicines for preclinical use, for clinical trials and on a larger scale for commercial use, if approved; the ability and willingness of our third-party strategic collaborators to continue research and development activities relating to our development candidates and investigational medicines; our ability to obtain funding for our operations necessary to complete further development and commercialization of our investigational medicines; our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of our investigational medicines; our ability to commercialize our products, if approved; the pricing and reimbursement of our investigational medicines, if approved; the implementation of our business model, and strategic plans for our business, investigational medicines, and technology; the scope of protection we are able to establish and maintain for intellectual property rights covering our investigational medicines and technology; estimates of our future expenses, revenues, capital requirements, and our needs for additional financing; the potential benefits of strategic collaboration agreements, our ability to enter into strategic collaborations or arrangements, and our ability to attract collaborators with development, regulatory, and commercialization expertise; future agreements with third parties in connection with the commercialization of our investigational medicines, if approved; the size and growth potential of the markets for our investigational medicines, and our ability to serve those markets; our financial performance; the rate and degree of market acceptance of our investigational medicines; regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; our ability to contract with third-party suppliers and manufacturers and their ability to perform adequately; our ability to produce our products or investigational medicines with advantages in turnaround times or manufacturing cost; the success of competing therapies that are or may become available; our ability to attract and retain key scientific or management personnel; the impact of laws and regulations; developments relating to our competitors and our industry; and other risks and uncertainties, including those listed under the caption Risk Factors. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, should, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The risks set forth above are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which are, in some cases, beyond our control and which could materially affect results. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, among other things, those listed under the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual events or results may vary significantly from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. No forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent our views as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should therefore not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes statistical and other industry and market data that we obtained from industry publications and research, surveys, and studies conducted by third parties. Industry publications and third-party research, surveys, and studies generally indicate that their information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, although they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the information contained in such sources. NOTE REGARDING COMPANY REFERENCES Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Moderna, the Company, we, us, and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Moderna, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business THE mRNA OPPORTUNITY mRNA, the software of life Messenger RNA, or mRNA, transfers the information stored in our genes to the cellular machinery that makes all the proteins required for life. Our genes are stored as sequences of DNA which contain the instructions to make specific proteins. DNA serves as a hard drive, safely storing these instructions in the nucleus until they are needed by the cell. When a cell needs to produce a protein, the instructions to make that protein are copied from the DNA to mRNA, which serves as the template for protein production. Each mRNA molecule contains the instructions to produce a specific protein with a distinct function in the body. mRNA transmits those instructions to cellular machinery, called ribosomes, that make copies of the required protein. We see mRNA functioning as the software of life. Every cell uses mRNA to provide real time instructions to make the proteins necessary to drive all aspects of biology, including in human health and disease. This was codified as the central dogma of molecular biology over 50 years ago, and is exemplified in the schematic below. mRNA is used to make every type of protein, including secreted, membrane, and intracellular proteins, in varying quantities over time, in different locations, and in various combinations. This is shown in the figure below. 5 Table of Contents Given its essential role, we believe mRNA could be used to create a new class of medicines with significant potential to improve the lives of patients. Over the last 40 years, the biotechnology industry has created a new category of drugs based on recombinant protein technology. These drugs rely on secreted proteins, including antibodies and protein replacements, to treat a wide range of diseases. This category of drugs accounts for over $200 billion in annual worldwide sales. However, intracellular and membrane proteins represent as much as two-thirds of the proteins in humans, and are largely beyond the reach of recombinant protein technology. Based on the ability of mRNA to produce these proteins directly in cells, we believe that mRNA-based medicines have the potential to help patients in ways that could equal or exceed the impact of recombinant protein-based drugs. The structure of mRNA Messenger RNA is a linear polymer comprising four monomers called nucleotides: adenosine (A), guanosine (G), cytosine (C), and uridine (U). Within the region of the molecule that codes for a protein, or the coding region, the sequence of these four nucleotides forms a language made up of three-letter words called codons. The first codon, or start codon (AUG), signals where the ribosome should start protein synthesis. To know what protein to make, the ribosome then progresses along the mRNA one codon at a time, appending the appropriate amino acid to the growing protein. To end protein synthesis, three different codons (UAA, UAG, and UGA) serve as stop signals, telling the ribosome where to terminate protein synthesis. In total, there are 64 potential codons, but only 20 amino acids that are used to build proteins; therefore multiple codons can encode for the same amino acid. The process of protein production is called translation because the ribosome is reading in one language (a sequence of codons) and outputting in another language (a sequence of amino acids). As shown in the figure below, the coding region is analogous to a sentence in English. Much like a start codon, a capitalized word can indicate the start of a sentence. Codons within the coding region resemble groups of letters representing words. The end of the sentence is signaled by a period in English, or a stop codon for mRNA. 6 Table of Contents The intrinsic advantages of using mRNA as a medicine We believe mRNA possesses inherent characteristics that could serve as the foundation for a new class of medicines. These characteristics include: 1. mRNA is used by every cell to produce all proteins: Cells in the human body use mRNA to make all types of proteins, including secreted, membrane, and intracellular proteins. mRNA is used by cells to vary the quantities of protein produced over time, in different locations, and in various combinations. Given the universal role of mRNA in protein production, we believe that mRNA medicines could have broad applicability across human disease. 2. Making proteins inside one s own cells mimics human biology: Using a person s own cells to produce protein therapeutics or vaccine antigens could create advantages over existing technologies such as recombinant proteins, which are manufactured using processes that are foreign to the human body. These advantages include the ability to: use multiple mRNAs to produce multiple proteins; reduce or eliminate immunogenicity; create multi-protein complexes; produce therapeutic or vaccine proteins locally; harness native protein folding and glycosylation; and make proteins that are unstable outside the body. 3. mRNA has a simple and flexible chemical structure: Each mRNA molecule comprises four chemically similar nucleotides to encode proteins made from up to 20 chemically different amino acids. To make the full diversity of possible proteins, only simple sequence changes are required in mRNA. A vast number of potential mRNA medicines can be developed, therefore, with only minor changes to the underlying chemical structure of the molecule or manufacturing processes, a significant advantage over small molecule or protein therapeutics. 4. mRNA has the potential for classic pharmacologic features: The intrinsic properties of mRNA translate into attractive pharmacologic features, including: each mRNA encodes for a specific protein and no other protein; each mRNA molecule can produce many copies of a protein in the cell before being degraded; increasing mRNA levels in a cell generally leads to increasing protein levels; and the effects of mRNA in a cell can be transient and limits risk of irreversible changes to the cell s DNA. As a result, mRNA could have many of the attractive pharmacologic features of most modern medicines, including reproducible activity, predictable potency, and well-behaved dose dependency; and the ability to adjust dosing based on an individual patient s needs, including stopping or lowering the dose, to seek to ensure safety and tolerability. mRNA as a new class of medicines Based on these and other features, we have developed four core beliefs about the value drivers of mRNA as a new class of medicines: 1. mRNA has the potential to create an unprecedented abundance and diversity of medicines. mRNA medicines could be used to provide patients or healthy individuals with any therapeutic protein or vaccine, including those targeting intracellular and membrane proteins. This breadth of applicability has the potential to create an extraordinary number of new mRNA-based medicines that are currently beyond the reach of recombinant protein technology. 2. Advances in the development of our mRNA medicines can reduce risks across our portfolio. mRNA medicines share fundamental features that can be used to learn quickly across a portfolio. We believe that once safety and proof of protein production has been established in one program, the technology and biology risks of related programs that use similar mRNA technologies, delivery technologies, and manufacturing processes will decrease significantly. 3. mRNA technology can accelerate discovery and development. The software-like features of mRNA enable rapid in silico design and the use of automated high-throughput synthesis processes that permit discovery to proceed in parallel rather than sequentially. We believe these mRNA features can also accelerate drug development by allowing the use of shared manufacturing processes and infrastructure. 7 Table of Contents 4. The ability to leverage shared processes and infrastructure can drive significant capital efficiency over time. We believe the manufacturing requirements of different mRNA medicines are dramatically more similar than traditional recombinant protein-based drugs across a similarly diverse pipeline. When manufacturing at commercial scale, we believe mRNA medicines will benefit from shared capital expenditures, resulting in lower program-specific capital needs and an advantageous variable cost profile. Recombinant protein-based drugs significantly advanced patient care and transformed the biopharmaceutical industry. We believe that the development of mRNA as a new class of medicines could represent another breakthrough for patients and our industry. 8 Table of Contents OUR STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES AND APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK Our strategy is designed to deliver on the full scope of the mRNA opportunity over the long-term. Reaching patients with mRNA medicines requires us to make complex choices, including: how much capital we devote to technology creation, drug discovery, drug development, and infrastructure; which programs we advance and how; whether we advance programs alone or with strategic collaborators; and which capabilities we build internally versus outsource. To navigate these choices, we established five strategic principles that guide our approach to creating long-term value for patients and investors. No single strategic principle dominates our choices. Embedded in every decision we make is also our assessment of the most important risks inherent in our business. We believe these risks fall into four categories: technology, biology, execution, and financing. To increase our chances of success, we often find it necessary to balance our near-to-mid-term risks against the strategic principles that guide our approach to long-term value creation. Our strategic principles 1. We seek to discover and develop a large pipeline in parallel. Our goal is to address or prevent as many human diseases as our technology, talent, capital, and other resources permit. We do so as rapidly as we can, understanding both the urgency for patients and the need to be disciplined in our approach. We have a diverse pipeline of 24 development candidates, 12 of which are currently in clinical trials, and many of which have the potential to be first-in-class or best-in-class medicines. 2. We undertake sustained, long-term investment in technology creation. We aim to improve the performance of mRNA medicines in our current modalities, and to unlock new modalities, through investments within basic and applied science. We are committed to remaining at the forefront of mRNA science, which we believe will take many more years to fully mature. 3. We focus on the pace and scale of our learning. We believe that time is a critical resource. We seek to accelerate our progress by solving numerous technical problems in parallel rather than in sequence. Our scientists pursue experiments based on how much we can learn from the results, not just the probability of a positive outcome. We believe negative information is valuable and we can learn from our setbacks. We make significant investments in digital assets and research infrastructure to accelerate the pace and scale of our learning. 4. We integrate across the most critical parts of our value chain. mRNA is a complex multicomponent system and we believe it demands integration. We believe that we must be directly engaged in research, drug discovery, drug development, process and analytical development, and manufacturing to accelerate our learning, reduce our risk, and protect our critical know-how. Where appropriate, we seek out strategic collaborators that can augment our capabilities or expand our capacity in specific therapeutic areas, while being careful to resist the fragmentation of our core technology. 5. We forward invest in core enabling capabilities and infrastructure. To execute across a broad pipeline, we need to invest at risk before we have all the answers. Our forward investments focus on areas where lead times are long and where early investments can reduce execution risk and accelerate future progress. We proactively decided to invest in a dedicated manufacturing facility, Moderna Technology Center ( MTC ), in Norwood, MA, to support the anticipated growth of our pipeline. Our approach to managing risk In conjunction with the strategic principles that guide our approach to long-term value creation, we actively manage the risks inherent in our business. At present, these categories of risk include: technology, biology, execution, and financing. We summarize our approach to managing these risks below: 1. Technology risk encompasses the challenges of developing the product features of mRNA medicines, including delivery, controlling interactions with the immune system, optimizing therapeutic index, and manufacturing. We believe the best way to mitigate technology risk is to sustain long-term investments in our platform. In addition, we diversify our technology risk by compartmentalizing our pipeline into groups of programs with shared product features, which we call modalities. Lastly, we stage program development within a modality, leveraging the first program, whether successful or not, to generate insights that accelerate and reduce the risk of subsequent programs within the modality. 2. Biology risk entails the risk unique to each program based on its mechanism of action and of clinical development in the target patient population. We believe the best way to manage biology risk is to diversify it by pursuing multiple programs in parallel. In addition, within a modality we seek to initially pursue programs with well-understood biology. Lastly, we may seek strategic collaborators to share risk and upside in disease areas with high inherent biology risk, such as cancer and heart disease. 9 Table of Contents 3. Execution risk refers to the challenge of executing against the scale of our mission. We solve for this risk by seeking to hire the right people, the best talent in the industry. We seek to foster a culture of execution with a focus on quick review cycles and high velocity decision-making. We make forward investments in infrastructure, including manufacturing. Lastly, we have created a digital backbone to track all aspects of our programs and anticipate challenges before they arise. 4. Financing risk refers to our ability to access the capital required to fund the current breadth of our endeavor, as well as new opportunities. We manage this risk by attempting to maintain a strong balance sheet with several years of cash runway. As of December 31, 2019 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $1.3 billion . During 2019, cash used in operations and for purchases of property and equipment was $459.0 million and $31.6 million in 2019 , respectively. Lastly, we may continue to pursue strategic alliances, which provide resources and another source of funding. There is no single strategic principle nor single category of risk that dominates our decision-making, and universal rules do not exist across our portfolio. Our trade-offs generally involve balancing near-term risks and long-term value creation. Because development cycles are long, our choices are complex. We expect the weighting and types of risk we face will evolve as our business matures. We believe that disciplined capital allocation across near- and long-term choices must be a core competency if we are to maximize the opportunity for patient impact and shareholder value creation. Our progress We are encouraged by our results to date. Across the six modalities that we have established, we have 23 programs in development, and manufactured dozens of drug substance lots for use in IND-enabling Good Laboratory Practice, or GLP, toxicology studies. IND-enabling refers to studies required for Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, or equivalent non-U.S. regulatory filings, such as a Clinical Trial Application, or CTA. We and our strategic collaborators have completed IND-enabling GLP toxicology programs to support our open INDs and/or CTAs for our development candidates, manufactured dozens of current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, batches of clinical trial materials, and have 12 programs in clinical trials and another one with an open IND. Over 1,500 subjects have been enrolled in our clinical trials. To fund these activities, we have raised over $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2019 , including $2.4 billion from equity issuances and $0.8 billion in upfront payments, milestone payments, and option exercise fees from strategic collaborators. 10 Table of Contents OUR PLATFORM Overview of our platform Our platform refers to our accumulated knowledge and capabilities in basic and applied sciences across mRNA, the delivery of mRNA to target tissues, and the manufacturing processes for making potential mRNA medicines. We invest in basic science to discover foundational mechanistic insights, and we invest in applied sciences to invent technology that harnesses those insights. We use our platform to identify and develop new mRNA medicines. When we identify a combination of platform technologies or programs across mRNA technologies, delivery technologies, and manufacturing processes that can enable shared product features across multiple potential mRNA medicines, we group those programs as a modality. The primary goal of our platform is to identify new modalities and to expand the utility of our existing modalities. We are committed to advancing the technological frontier of mRNA medicines over the long term. We define success in our platform as achieving the following pharmacologic properties: predictable dose response; reproducible pharmacology, including upon repeat dosing; therapeutic potency, through achieving the intended pharmacologic activity in the target tissue; safety and tolerability; and scalability for development. Achieving any of these pharmacologic properties requires many, often interdependent, technological solutions. We organize our efforts into three core scientific areas: mRNA, delivery, and manufacturing process as shown in the figure below: We pursue mRNA science both to minimize undesirable activation of the immune system by mRNA and to maximize the mRNA potency of mRNA once inside target cells. We pursue delivery science to protect mRNA from extracellular enzymes that would degrade it, to avoid counterproductive interactions of our delivery vehicles with the immune system, deliver mRNA to desired tissues, and facilitate mRNA transport across cell membranes to the translational machinery within cells. Finally, we have learned that the methods for producing mRNA and lipid nanoparticle, or LNP, delivery systems can have profound positive and negative effects on pharmacology. We pursue process science to optimize these features for our future medicines and to develop technical capabilities to scale our potential mRNA medicines for clinical development. We have incurred over $500.0 million of expense to advance our platform technology and our intellectual property. This investment has underpinned the creation of all six of our existing modalities and helped us to establish fundamental intellectual property. We intend to sustain our investment in our platform in the future because we believe we can establish new modalities and continue to make meaningful improvements in the performance of our current modalities. The success of our current platform and the current pipeline of over 20 programs that it underpins depends on hundreds of small advances in our three core scientific areas. Examples of many critical advances that we have made are described below. These advances demonstrate our significant progress to date, and exemplify our approach to tackling hundreds of smaller scientific problems and organizing them into technological solutions. Our platform: mRNA science An overview of mRNA biology Messenger RNA is a linear polymer comprised of four monomers called nucleotides: adenosine (A), guanosine (G), cytosine (C), and uridine (U). Within the region of the mRNA molecule that serves as instructions for protein synthesis, the coding region, the exact sequence of these four nucleotides forms a language made up of three-letter words called codons. One codon, the start codon (AUG), serves to signal where the ribosome should start protein synthesis. To know what protein to make, the ribosome then progresses along the mRNA one codon at a time, appending the appropriate amino acid to the growing protein chain. Because the ribosome is reading in one language (a sequence of codons) and outputting in another language (a sequence of amino acids), this process is called translation. Finally, three different codons (UAA, UAG, and UGA) can serve as stop signals, telling the ribosome where to terminate protein synthesis. The production of proteins from mRNA sequences is called translation and is used to make all human proteins. The production of mRNA from DNA is called transcription. 11 Table of Contents As shown in the figure below, the coding region in an mRNA mo