Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 46 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 79 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 79 Item 2. Properties 80 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 80 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 81 PART II . Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 82 Item 6. [Reserved] 83 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 84 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 99 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 101 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 140 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 141 Item 9B. Other Information 143 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 143 PART III . Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 144 Item 11. Executive Compensation 144 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 144 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 144 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 144 PART IV . Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 145 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 148 Signatures 149 SUMMARY OF THE MATERIAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should be aware of before making an investment decision, including those highlighted in the section entitled Risk Factors. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Evolving dynamics in the market for COVID-19 vaccines are likely to impact our financial results, which are likely to result in lower product revenues in 2024 than we have experienced in recent years; We may encounter difficulties producing or shipping our products consistent with our projections or future contractual commitments; We have limited sales, distribution and marketing experience and may be unable to effectively establish such capabilities or supplement our capabilities by entering into agreements with third parties; The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive, and we may not compete effectively in the market for existing products, new treatment methods and new technologies; We may be unsuccessful or delayed in updating our COVID-19 vaccine to protect against future variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and updated versions of our COVID-19 vaccine may not protect against such variants; The commercial success of our products will depend on the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community; Sales of pharmaceutical products depend on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, and we may be adversely impacted by changes to such reimbursement policies or rules; Preclinical development is lengthy and uncertain, especially for mRNA medicines, and our preclinical programs or product candidates may be delayed or terminated; Clinical development is lengthy and uncertain, and our clinical programs may be delayed or terminated, or may be more costly to conduct than we anticipate; If we cannot obtain, or are delayed in obtaining, required regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize, or will be delayed in commercializing, product candidates we may develop; Our mRNA products and product candidates are based on novel technologies and are complex and difficult to manufacture. We or our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties in manufacturing, product release, shelf life, testing, storage, supply chain management or shipping for any of our products; As we grow as a commercial company and our drug development pipeline increases and matures, the increased demand for clinical and commercial supplies from our facilities and third parties may impact our ability to operate. We rely on third-party service providers, all of whom have inherent risks in their operations; We are subject to operational risks associated with the physical and digital infrastructure at our manufacturing facilities and those of our external service providers; Our individualized neoantigen therapy (INT) product candidates are uniquely manufactured for each patient using a novel, complex manufacturing process and we may encounter difficulties in producing INT; We are dependent on single-source suppliers for some of the components and materials used in, and the processes required to develop, our products and product candidates; We have entered into, and in the future may enter into, strategic alliances with third parties for the development and commercialization of products and product candidates. If these strategic alliances are not successful, our business could be adversely affected; We may seek to establish additional strategic alliances and, if we are unable to establish them on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans. Certain of our strategic alliance agreements may restrict our ability to develop certain products; We may be unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries and the intellectual property rights therein, or protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets; Uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable and can have adverse financial and freedom-to-operate consequences; We incurred net losses in 2023 and we are likely to incur losses again in the future; we have a limited history of recognizing revenue from product sales and may be unable to achieve long-term sustainable profitability; We may encounter difficulties in managing the development and expansion of our company; Our internal computer systems and physical premises, or those of third parties with which we share sensitive data or information, may fail or suffer security breaches, including from cybersecurity incidents, which could materially disrupt our product development programs and manufacturing operations; and The price of our common stock has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in the section entitled Risk Factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. The risks described above are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains express or implied forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our expectations regarding the future profitability of our COVID-19 vaccine franchise, as well as our ability to grow and maintain market share; our expectations regarding the evolution of the endemic, commercial COVID-19 vaccine market and future demand for COVID-19 vaccines; our expectations regarding sales of our COVID-19 vaccine in 2024 and beyond; our ability to continue to develop variant-specific versions of our COVID-19 vaccine that are able to effectively combat COVID-19 as the SARS-CoV-2 virus continues to evolve; the potential launch, following regulatory approvals, of our respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine for adults in the first half of 2024, as well as additional respiratory product launches in 2024 and 2025; the durability of our individualized neoantigen therapy (INT) candidate, the ability of our INT candidate to address different types of cancer, our Phase 3 clinical trials in adjuvant melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and our plans to rapidly expand to additional tumor types; our goal to launch up to 15 new products over the next five years; our discussions with regulators regarding our first-generation seasonal influenza vaccine candidate (mRNA-1010), and our intent to file for regulatory approval in 2024; the potential of our platform to address rare genetic diseases, and our plans to advance propionic acidemia (PA) and methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) programs into pivotal studies in 2024; our ability to deliver on the next-generation pipeline and platform, including the commencement of additional clinical trials; our ability to successfully contract with third-party suppliers, distributors and manufacturers; our ability and the ability of third parties with whom we contract to successfully manufacture, supply and distribute our products, at scale, as well as drug substances, delivery vehicles and product candidates for preclinical and clinical use; the scope of protection we are able to establish and maintain for intellectual property rights covering our commercial products, product candidates and technology, including our ability to enter into license agreements, and our expectations regarding pending legal proceedings related to our intellectual property; the timing of initiation, progress, completion, results (including interim data) and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and research and development programs, as well as those of our collaborators; participant enrollment in our clinical trials, including enrollment demographics and timing; potential advantages of mRNA as compared to traditional medicine; our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products; our ability to successfully commercialize our products, if approved, including in light of the size and growth potential of the markets for our products and the degree of market acceptance of our products; the pricing and reimbursement of our medicines, if approved; the buildout of our manufacturing and commercial operations, including our partnerships with various governments to establish mRNA vaccine manufacturing facilities; our financial performance and estimates of our future expenses, revenues and capital requirements; the potential benefits of strategic collaboration agreements and our ability to enter into strategic collaborations or other agreements with collaborators with development, regulatory and commercialization expertise; legal and regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; our ability to produce our products or product candidates with advantages in turnaround times or manufacturing cost; our ability to attract and retain key scientific, manufacturing, regulatory, commercial and management personnel; and developments relating to our competitors and our industry. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, should, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Forward-looking statements are based on our management s belief and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements relate to future events or our future operational or financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from current expectations include, among other things, those listed under the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual events or results may vary significantly from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. No forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent our views as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should therefore not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes statistical and other industry and market data that we obtained from industry publications and research, surveys, and studies conducted by third parties. Industry publications and third-party research, surveys, and studies generally indicate that their information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, although they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the information contained in such sources. NOTE REGARDING COMPANY REFERENCES Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Moderna, the Company, we, us and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Moderna, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. TRADEMARKS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains references to our trademarks and to trademarks belonging to other entities. Solely for convenience, trademarks and trade names referred to, including logos, artwork and other visual displays, may appear without the or TM symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names or trademarks to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, any other companies. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Moderna is a leader in the creation of the field of messenger RNA (mRNA) medicine. By working at the intersection of science, technology and health for more than a decade, we have developed medicines at unprecedented speed and efficiency, including one of the earliest and most effective COVID-19 vaccines. Our mRNA platform has enabled the development of therapeutics and vaccines for infectious diseases, immuno-oncology, rare diseases and autoimmune diseases. With a unique culture and a global team driven by the Moderna values and mindsets to responsibly change the future of human health, we strive to deliver the greatest possible impact to people through mRNA medicines. Our first commercial product, Spikevax (our COVID-19 vaccine), has helped hundreds of millions of people worldwide combat COVID-19. SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, continues to evolve and in 2023, the COVID-19 vaccine market transitioned to an endemic, seasonal commercial market. To adapt to the evolving market, we significantly resized our manufacturing infrastructure to help position our COVID-19 franchise for future profitability. We achieved 2023 net product sales of $6.7 billion, with $6.1 billion of COVID-19 vaccine sales, and recognition of approximately $0.6 billion of deferred revenue related to our efforts with Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance. In the United States, we achieved 48% market share in the retail market for the 2023 fall season, compared to 37% in the 2022 fall season. Beyond COVID-19, in 2023, we prepared for the potential 2024 launch of our investigational respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine for adults, which we expect to further demonstrate the commercial potential of our mRNA platform. In cancer, we reported additional data from our Phase 2b trial evaluating our individualized neoantigen therapy (INT) in combination with Merck s KEYTRUDA in melanoma patients compared to KEYTRUDA alone. The treatment continued to show significant and clinically meaningful improvement in recurrence-free survival and reduced the risk of recurrence or death by 49%. We believe that these data, with a median follow-up of approximately three years, demonstrate the durability of the therapy, and we have initiated Phase 3 studies in the adjuvant setting in patients with high-risk melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer. We and Merck plan to rapidly expand our clinical trials to additional tumor types. Having demonstrated clinical benefit in multiple infectious disease areas and skin cancer, as well as potential clinical benefit for several rare genetic diseases, we continue to advance a broad and diverse pipeline and are focused on execution to deliver for patients. Our pipeline includes 45 therapeutic and vaccine programs, nine of which are in late-stage development. THE mRNA OPPORTUNITY mRNA, the software of life mRNA transfers the information stored in our genes to the cellular machinery that makes all the proteins required for life. Our genes are stored as sequences of DNA which contain the instructions to make specific proteins. DNA serves as a hard drive, safely storing these instructions in the cell s nucleus until they are needed by the cell. When a cell needs to produce a protein, the instructions to make that protein are copied from the DNA to mRNA, which serves as the template for protein production. Each mRNA molecule contains the instructions to produce a specific protein with a distinct function in the body. mRNA transmits those instructions to cellular machinery, called ribosomes, that make copies of the required protein. We see mRNA functioning as the software of life. Every cell uses mRNA to provide real time instructions to make the proteins necessary to drive all aspects of biology, including in human health and disease. This was codified as the central dogma of molecular biology over 60 years ago, and is exemplified in the schematic below. 6 Table of Contents The structure of mRNA mRNA is a linear polymer comprising four monomers called nucleotides: adenosine (A), guanosine (G), cytosine (C) and uridine (U). Within the region of the molecule that codes for a protein (the coding region), the sequence of these four nucleotides forms a language made up of three-letter words called codons. The first codon, or start codon (AUG), signals where the ribosome should start protein synthesis. To know what protein to make, the ribosome then progresses along the mRNA one codon at a time, appending the appropriate amino acid to the growing protein. To end protein synthesis, three different codons (UAA, UAG, and UGA) serve as stop signals, telling the ribosome where to terminate protein synthesis. In total, there are 64 potential codons, but only 20 amino acids that are used to build proteins; therefore, multiple codons can encode for the same amino acid. The process of protein production is called translation because the ribosome is reading in one language (a sequence of codons) and outputting in another language (a sequence of amino acids). The coding region is analogous to a sentence in English. Much like a start codon, a capitalized word can indicate the start of a sentence. Codons within the coding region resemble groups of letters representing words. The end of the sentence is signaled by a period in English, or a stop codon for mRNA. In every cell, hundreds of thousands of mRNAs make hundreds of millions of proteins every day. A typical protein contains 200-600 amino acids; therefore, a typical mRNA coding region ranges from 600-1,800 nucleotides. In addition to the coding region, mRNAs contain four other key features: (1) the 5 untranslated region (5 -UTR); (2) the 3 untranslated region (3 -UTR); (3) the 5 cap; and (4) a 3 polyadenosine (poly-A) tail. The sequence of nucleotides in the 5 -UTR influences how efficiently the ribosome initiates protein synthesis, whereas the sequence of nucleotides in the 3 -UTR contains information about which cell types should translate that mRNA and how long the mRNA should last. The 5 cap and 3 poly-A tail enhance ribosome engagement and protect the mRNA from attack by intracellular enzymes that digest mRNA from its ends. 7 Table of Contents The intrinsic advantages of using mRNA as a medicine mRNA possesses inherent characteristics that we believe position it to have a profound impact on human health: mRNA is used by every cell to produce all proteins: mRNA is used to make every type of protein, including secreted, membrane and intracellular proteins, in varying quantities over time, in different locations and in various combinations. Given the universal role of mRNA in protein production, we believe that mRNA medicines could have broad applicability across human disease. Making proteins inside one s own cells mimics human biology: Tailored mRNA can be sent into cells to instruct them to produce specific protein therapeutics or vaccine antigens and provides certain advantages over traditional approaches to medicine, where a protein or chemical is introduced to the body. mRNA has a simple and flexible chemical structure: Each mRNA molecule comprises four chemically similar nucleotides to encode proteins made from up to 20 chemically different amino acids. To make the full diversity of possible proteins, only simple sequence changes are required in mRNA, instead of starting from scratch for each new vaccine or therapy. mRNA has classic pharmacologic features: mRNA possesses many of the attractive pharmacologic features of most modern medicines, including reproducible activity, predictable potency and well-behaved dose dependency; mRNA also provides the ability to adjust dosing based on an individual patient s needs, including stopping or lowering the dose, to seek to promote safety and tolerability. Our ability to rapidly develop, manufacture and commercialize vaccines against COVID-19 demonstrates the potential mRNA medicines have to help people and patients in far-reaching ways that could exceed the impact of traditional approaches to medicine. We believe that the main advantages of mRNA as compared to traditional medicine are: 1. mRNA could create an unprecedented abundance and diversity of medicines. mRNA s breadth of applicability has the potential to create an extraordinary number of new mRNA medicines that are currently beyond the reach of recombinant protein technology. 2. Advances in the development of our mRNA medicines reduce risks across our portfolio. mRNA medicines share fundamental features that can be leveraged across our portfolio. We believe that once safety and proof of protein production has been established in one program, the technology and biology risks of related programs that use similar mRNA technologies, delivery technologies and manufacturing processes will decrease significantly. 3. mRNA technology can accelerate discovery and development. The software-like features of mRNA enable rapid in silico design and the use of automated high-throughput synthesis processes that permit discovery to proceed in parallel rather than sequentially. We believe these mRNA features can also accelerate drug development by allowing the use of shared manufacturing processes and infrastructure. 4. The ability to leverage shared processes and infrastructure can drive significant capital efficiency over time. We believe the manufacturing requirements of different mRNA medicines are similar and that at commercial scale, a portfolio of mRNA medicines will benefit from shared capital expenditures. OUR STRATEGY We believe that the development of mRNA medicines represents a significant breakthrough for patients, our industry and human health globally. Our success in developing one of the earliest and most effective COVID-19 vaccines, at unprecedented speed and efficiency, demonstrates the promise of mRNA medicine. Our COVID-19 vaccine has helped hundreds of millions of people worldwide combat COVID-19. Beyond COVID-19, our platform continues to be highly productive, with 45 programs currently in development, spanning infectious diseases, immuno-oncology, rare diseases and autoimmune diseases. Across our respiratory vaccines, latent and other vaccines, oncology and rare disease franchises, we are aiming to launch up to 15 new products over the next five years. We have formulated strategic objectives to help enable our near- and long-term goals: 1. Deliver an unrivalled respiratory vaccine franchise. We are developing vaccines against COVID-19, seasonal flu and RSV individually, while pursuing parallel development of combination vaccines. Recognizing that COVID-19 is likely to pose an ongoing health burden, we are making it an important piece of our business with our vaccines against COVID-19 and our investigational combination vaccine against flu and COVID-19. In parallel, we are preparing for the potential 2024 launch of our investigational RSV vaccine for older adults, which is expected to further demonstrate the commercial potential of our mRNA platform. We expect that our anticipated respiratory product launches in 2024 and 2025 will allow us to recognize efficiencies from our growing pipeline. 8 Table of Contents 2. Advance multiple latent virus and other vaccines. We are developing vaccines against latent and other viruses with unmet or underserved needs, including cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), norovirus, HIV and Lyme disease. We anticipate potential efficacy data from the pivotal Phase 3 study of our CMV vaccine candidate in 2024. CMV is the most common infectious cause of birth defects in the United States and has been designated as a top priority in new vaccine development by the U.S. National Academy of Medicine for more than two decades. 3. Accelerate a large portfolio of late-stage clinical trials in INT to deliver a transformative impact in cancer treatments. In 2023, we reported data from our Phase 2b trial evaluating our INT in combination with Merck s KEYTRUDA in melanoma patients compared to KEYTRUDA alone, which we believe demonstrates the durability of the therapy. We have launched Phase 3 trials for both adjuvant melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and plan to expand the development program to additional tumor types. 4. Accelerate investment in three rare disease programs to pursue potential launches. We have demonstrated the potential for clinical benefit in three different rare genetic diseases (propionic acidemia (PA), methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) and glycogen storage disease type 1a (GSD1a)), and expect to advance our PA and MMA programs into pivotal studies in 2024. 5. Deliver the next-generation pipeline and platform. We have demonstrated clinical benefit in multiple infectious disease vaccines and in skin cancer, as well as potential clinical benefit in three different rare genetic diseases. Based on these clinical successes, we continue to advance a broad and diverse pipeline and are focused on execution to deliver for patients. We plan to continue to invest in our science and our platform to expand mRNA applications and advance new programs into clinical studies. OUR PLATFORM Overview of our platform Our mRNA platform refers to our accumulated knowledge and capabilities in basic and applied sciences. Our platform incorporates advances across three key components mRNA, delivery and the manufacturing process to advance our medicines. We integrate these components and combine different versions of mRNA delivery and process into each of our medicines. Our platform: mRNA science advancements We continue to invest in both basic and applied research, seeking to advance both the state of our technology and the state of the scientific community s understanding of mRNA. Examples of advances in mRNA science that combine nucleotide chemistry, sequence engineering and targeting elements are described below. mRNA chemistry: Modified nucleotides to mitigate immune system activation: The innate immune system has evolved to protect cells from foreign RNA, such as viral RNA, by inducing inflammation and suppressing mRNA translation once detected. Many cells surveil their environment through sensors called toll-like-receptors (TLRs). These include types that are activated by the presence of double-stranded RNA (TLR3) or uridine containing RNA fragments (TLR7, TLR8). Additionally, all cells have cytosolic double-stranded RNA, sensors, including retinoic acid inducible gene-I (RIG-I) that are sensitive to foreign RNA inside the cell. The immune and cellular response to mRNA is complex, context specific, and often linked to the sensing of uridine. To minimize undesired immune responses to our potential mRNA medicines, our platform employs chemically-modified uridine nucleotides to minimize recognition by both immune cell sensors such as TLR3/7/8, and broadly-distributed cytosolic receptors such as RIG-I. mRNA sequence engineering: Maximizing protein expression: mRNA exists transiently in the cytoplasm, during which time it can be translated into thousands of prote