Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 58 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 95 Item 2. Properties 95 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 95 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 95 PART II . Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 96 Item 6. [Reserved] 97 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 98 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 111 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 113 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 151 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 151 Item 9B. Other Information 153 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 153 PART III . Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 154 Item 11. Executive Compensation 154 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 154 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 154 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 154 PART IV . Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 155 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 158 Signatures 159 SUMMARY OF THE MATERIAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should be aware of before making an investment decision, including those highlighted in the section entitled Risk Factors. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: We may encounter difficulties producing, shipping or successfully commercializing our COVID-19 vaccine consistent with our existing or potential contractual obligations, including due to delays or difficulties experienced by our commercial partners; The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively in the market for existing products, new treatment methods, and new technologies, including for COVID-19 vaccines; We may be delayed or prevented from receiving full regulatory approval of our COVID-19 vaccine in certain jurisdictions or for certain demographics; We may be unsuccessful in developing future versions of our COVID-19 vaccine to protect against variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, or booster doses of our vaccine may not protect against such variants, and a market for vaccines and boosters against these variants may not develop; Preclinical development is lengthy and uncertain, especially for a new class of medicines such as mRNA, and therefore our preclinical programs or development candidates may be delayed, terminated, or may never advance to the clinic, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our platform or our business; Clinical development is lengthy and uncertain, especially with a new class of medicines such as mRNA medicines. Clinical trials of our investigational medicines may be delayed and certain programs may never advance in the clinic or may be more costly to conduct than we anticipate, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our platform or our business; mRNA drug development has substantial clinical development and regulatory risks due to the novel nature of this new class of medicines, and the negative perception of the efficacy, safety, or tolerability profile of any investigational medicines that we or others develop could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, advance our investigational medicines, or obtain regulatory approvals; Our mRNA products, including our COVID-19 vaccine, development candidates and investigational medicines are based on novel technologies and are complex and difficult to manufacture. We or our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties in manufacturing, product release, shelf life, testing, storage, supply chain management, or shipping for any of our medicines; As our drug development pipeline increases and matures, the increased demand for clinical and commercial supplies from our facilities and third parties may impact our ability to operate. We rely on many service providers, all of whom have inherent risks in their operations that may adversely impact our operations; We are subject to significant regulatory oversight with respect to manufacturing our COVID-19 vaccine and our mRNA investigational medicines. Our manufacturing facilities or the manufacturing facilities of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers may not meet regulatory requirements. Failure to meet cGMP requirements set forth in regulations promulgated by the FDA, EMA, and other global health authorities could result in significant delays in any approval of and costs of our products; We have in the past entered into, and in the future may enter into, strategic alliances with third parties for the development and commercialization of our and their products, development candidates and investigational medicines. If these strategic alliances are not successful, our business could be adversely affected; We may seek to establish additional strategic alliances and, if we are not able to establish them on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans. Certain of our strategic alliance agreements may restrict our ability to develop certain products; If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, or protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our ability to effectively compete using our development candidates will be harmed; Our reliance on government funding and collaboration from governmental and quasi-governmental entities for certain of our programs adds uncertainty to our research and development efforts with respect to those programs and may impose requirements that increase the costs of development, commercialization and production of any programs developed under those government-funded programs; We have limited sales, distribution, and marketing experience, and have only recently invested significant financial and management resources to establish these capabilities. If we cannot effectively establish such capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our products or to help ensure compliance with local regulatory requirements, our ability to generate revenues may be adversely affected; Certain of our customers for our COVID-19 vaccine prepay us for a portion of the product payment for the vaccine doses that they expect to receive from us, and under the terms of certain of our supply agreements, we may be required to refund some or all of those prepayments if a customer reduces its purchase commitment or if we fail to deliver the purchased volume; We have a limited history of recognizing revenue from product sales and may not be able to achieve or maintain long-term sustainable profitability; We may encounter difficulties in managing the development and expansion of our company, which could disrupt our operations; Our internal computer systems and physical premises, or those of third parties with which we share sensitive data or information, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could materially disrupt our product development programs and manufacturing operations; We are subject to various and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and security of personal data, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business, result in fines and/or criminal penalties, and damage our reputation; The price of our common stock has been volatile and fluctuates substantially, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders; and Unfavorable U.S. or global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in the section entitled Risk Factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. The risks described above are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains express or implied forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our activities with respect to our COVID-19 vaccine, and our plans and expectations regarding future generations of our COVID-19 vaccine that we may develop in response to variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, ongoing clinical development, manufacturing and supply, pricing, commercialization, if approved, regulatory matters and third-party and governmental arrangements and potential arrangements; our ability to contract with third-party suppliers, distributors and manufacturers and their ability to perform adequately, particularly with respect to the timely production and delivery of our COVID-19 vaccine, including any variant booster vaccine candidates, if authorized; our ability and the ability of third parties with whom we contract to successfully manufacture our commercial products at scale, as well as drug substances, delivery vehicles, development candidates, and investigational medicines for preclinical and clinical use; the scope of protection we are able to establish and maintain for intellectual property rights covering our commercial products, investigational medicines and technology; the initiation, timing, progress, results, and cost of our research and development programs and our current and future preclinical studies and clinical trials, including statements regarding the timing of initiation and completion of studies or trials and related preparatory work, the period during which the results of the trials will become available, and our research and development programs; risks related to the direct or indirect impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or any future large-scale adverse health event, such as the scope and duration of the outbreak, government actions and restrictive measures implemented in response, material delays in diagnoses, initiation or continuation of treatment for diseases that may be addressed by our development candidates and investigational medicines, or in patient enrollment in clinical trials, potential clinical trials, regulatory review or supply chain disruptions, and other potential impacts to our business, the effectiveness or timeliness of steps taken by us to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, and our ability to execute business continuity plans to address disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic or future large-scale adverse health event; our anticipated next steps for our development candidates and investigational medicines that may be slowed down due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including our resources being significantly diverted towards our COVID-19 vaccine efforts, particularly if the federal government seeks to require us to divert such resources; our ability to identify research priorities and apply a risk-mitigated strategy to efficiently discover and develop development candidates and investigational medicines, including by applying learnings from one program to our other programs and from one modality to our other modalities; our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of our investigational medicines; our ability to commercialize our products, if approved; the pricing and reimbursement of our medicines, if approved; the implementation of our business model, and strategic plans for our business, investigational medicines, and technology; the scope of protection we are able to establish and maintain for intellectual property rights covering our investigational medicines and technology; estimates of our future expenses, revenues, capital requirements, and our needs for additional financing; the potential benefits of strategic collaboration agreements, our ability to enter into strategic collaborations or arrangements, and our ability to attract collaborators with development, regulatory, and commercialization expertise; future agreements with third parties in connection with the commercialization of our investigational medicines, if approved; the size and growth potential of the markets for our investigational medicines, and our ability to serve those markets; our financial performance; the rate and degree of market acceptance of our investigational medicines; legal and regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; our ability to produce our products or investigational medicines with advantages in turnaround times or manufacturing cost; the success of competing therapies that are or may become available; our ability to attract and retain key scientific or management personnel; and developments relating to our competitors and our industry. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, should, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Forward-looking statements are based on our management s belief and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements relate to future events or our future operational or financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from current expectations include, among other things, those listed under the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual events or results may vary significantly from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. No forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent our views as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should therefore not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes statistical and other industry and market data that we obtained from industry publications and research, surveys, and studies conducted by third parties. Industry publications and third-party research, surveys, and studies generally indicate that their information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, although they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the information contained in such sources. NOTE REGARDING COMPANY REFERENCES Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Moderna, the Company, we, us, and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Moderna, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. TRADEMARKS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains references to our trademarks and to trademarks belonging to other entities. Solely for convenience, trademarks and trade names referred to, including logos, artwork and other visual displays, may appear without the or TM symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names or trademarks to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, any other companies. Table of Content PART I Item 1. Business Moderna is pioneering a new class of medicines made of messenger RNA, or mRNA. The potential implications of using mRNA as a drug are significant and far-reaching and could meaningfully improve how medicines are discovered, developed, manufactured and administered. Since our founding in 2010, we have transformed from a research-stage company advancing programs in the field of mRNA to a commercial enterprise with a diverse clinical portfolio of vaccines and therapeutics across seven modalities, a broad intellectual property portfolio in areas including mRNA and lipid nanoparticle (LNP) formulation, and an integrated manufacturing plant that allows for rapid clinical and commercial production at scale. Moderna has established relationships with a broad range of domestic and overseas government and commercial collaborators, which has allowed for the pursuit of both groundbreaking science and rapid scaling of our manufacturing capabilities. Most recently, Moderna s capabilities have come together to allow the authorization and approval of one of the earliest and most-effective vaccines against the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, mRNA technology emerged as a new class of medicine. In under a year, we designed our vaccine against COVID-19 (mRNA-1273) using mRNA-based technology, conducted clinical trials, which demonstrated that the vaccine was highly effective at preventing COVID-19, and obtained an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and authorizations from other regulators around the world. During 2021, we shipped more than 800 million doses of our COVID-19 vaccine to countries around the globe to help fight the pandemic, with approximately 25% of those doses going to low- and middle-income countries. In January 2022, the FDA approved the Biologics License Application (BLA) for our COVID-19 vaccine, Spikevax , for individuals 18 years of age and older in the United States. THE mRNA OPPORTUNITY mRNA, the software of life mRNA transfers the information stored in our genes to the cellular machinery that makes all the proteins required for life. Our genes are stored as sequences of DNA which contain the instructions to make specific proteins. DNA serves as a hard drive, safely storing these instructions in the nucleus until they are needed by the cell. When a cell needs to produce a protein, the instructions to make that protein are copied from the DNA to mRNA, which serves as the template for protein production. Each mRNA molecule contains the instructions to produce a specific protein with a distinct function in the body. mRNA transmits those instructions to cellular machinery, called ribosomes, that make copies of the required protein. We see mRNA functioning as the software of life. Every cell uses mRNA to provide real time instructions to make the proteins necessary to drive all aspects of biology, including in human health and disease. This was codified as the central dogma of molecular biology over 50 years ago, and is exemplified in the schematic below. The structure of mRNA Messenger RNA is a linear polymer comprising four monomers called nucleotides: adenosine (A), guanosine (G), cytosine (C), and uridine (U). Within the region of the molecule that codes for a protein, or the coding region, the sequence of these four nucleotides forms a language made up of three-letter words called codons. The first codon, or start codon (AUG), signals where the ribosome should start protein synthesis. To know what protein to make, the ribosome then progresses along the mRNA one codon at a time, appending the appropriate amino acid to the growing protein. To end protein synthesis, three different codons (UAA, UAG, and UGA) 7 Table of Content serve as stop signals, telling the ribosome where to terminate protein synthesis. In total, there are 64 potential codons, but only 20 amino acids that are used to build proteins; therefore, multiple codons can encode for the same amino acid. The process of protein production is called translation because the ribosome is reading in one language (a sequence of codons) and outputting in another language (a sequence of amino acids). The coding region is analogous to a sentence in English. Much like a start codon, a capitalized word can indicate the start of a sentence. Codons within the coding region resemble groups of letters representing words. The end of the sentence is signaled by a period in English, or a stop codon for mRNA. In every cell, hundreds of thousands of mRNAs make hundreds of millions of proteins every day. A typical protein contains 200-600 amino acids; therefore, a typical mRNA coding region ranges from 600-1,800 nucleotides. In addition to the coding region, mRNAs contain four other key features: (1) the 5 untranslated region or 5 -UTR; (2) the 3 untranslated region or 3 -UTR; (3) the 5 cap; and (4) a 3 polyadenosine, or poly-A, tail. The sequence of nucleotides in the 5 -UTR influences how efficiently the ribosome initiates protein synthesis, whereas the sequence of nucleotides in the 3 -UTR contains information about which cell types should translate that mRNA and how long the mRNA should last. The 5 cap and 3 poly-A tail enhance ribosome engagement and protect the mRNA from attack by intracellular enzymes that digest mRNA from its ends. The intrinsic advantages of using mRNA as a medicine mRNA possesses inherent characteristics that we believe provide it with a strong foundation as a new class of medicines. These characteristics include: mRNA is used by every cell to produce all proteins: mRNA is used to make every type of protein, including secreted, membrane, and intracellular proteins, in varying quantities over time, in different locations, and in various combinations. Given the universal role of mRNA in protein production, we believe that mRNA medicines could have broad applicability across human disease. Making proteins inside one s own cells mimics human biology: Using a person s own cells to produce protein therapeutics or vaccine antigens provides certain advantages over existing technologies such as recombinant proteins, which are manufactured using processes that are foreign to the human body. mRNA has a simple and flexible chemical structure: Each mRNA molecule comprises four chemically similar nucleotides to encode proteins made from up to 20 chemically different amino acids. To make the full diversity of possible proteins, only simple sequence changes are required in mRNA. mRNA has classic pharmacologic features: mRNA possesses many of the attractive pharmacologic features of most modern medicines, including reproducible activity, predictable potency, and well-behaved dose dependency; mRNA also provides the ability to adjust dosing based on an individual patient s needs, including stopping or lowering the dose, to seek to ensure safety and tolerability. mRNA as a new class of medicines Unlike traditional approaches to medicine, where a protein or chemical is introduced to the body, we send tailored mRNA into cells to instruct them to produce specific proteins. Instead of starting from scratch for each new vaccine or therapy, our mRNA approach 8 Table of Content leverages the technology and fundamental components that we have been researching and developing since our founding. Our success in developing, manufacturing and commercializing the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine further supports our belief that mRNA-based medicines as a class have the potential to help patients in far-reaching ways that could exceed the impact of traditional approaches to medicine. We have developed four core beliefs about the value drivers of mRNA as a new class of medicines: 1. mRNA has the potential to create an unprecedented abundance and diversity of medicines. mRNA s breadth of applicability has the potential to create an extraordinary number of new mRNA-based medicines that are currently beyond the reach of recombinant protein technology. 2. Advances in the development of our mRNA medicines reduce risks across our portfolio. mRNA medicines share fundamental features that can be used to learn quickly across a portfolio. We believe that once safety and proof of protein production has been established in one program, the technology and biology risks of related programs that use similar mRNA technologies, delivery technologies, and manufacturing processes will decrease significantly. 3. mRNA technology can accelerate discovery and development. The software-like features of mRNA enable rapid in silico design and the use of automated high-throughput synthesis processes that permit discovery to proceed in parallel rather than sequentially. We believe these mRNA features can also accelerate drug development by allowing the use of shared manufacturing processes and infrastructure. 4. The ability to leverage shared processes and infrastructure can drive significant capital efficiency over time. We believe the manufacturing requirements of different mRNA medicines are similar and that at commercial scale, a portfolio of mRNA medicines will benefit from shared capital expenditures. OUR STRATEGY We believe that the development of mRNA as a new class of medicines, as evidenced by the development of mRNA-based vaccines during 2020, represents a significant breakthrough for patients and our industry. Our success in developing a highly effective vaccine against COVID-19, going from sequence selection, conducting clinical trials and to receipt of regulatory authorization for emergency use, all in less than a year, provides a visible example of the promise of mRNA-based medicine. The Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine/Spikevax has been authorized for use or approved in over 70 countries. In January 2022, the FDA approved the BLA for Spikevax for individuals 18 years of age and older in the United States. From the beginning of the pandemic through December 31, 2021, we delivered 824 million doses of our vaccine, helping to vaccinate millions of people worldwide and combat the pandemic. We believe our success in developing this vaccine has positive implications beyond infectious disease vaccines and across our entire pipeline. We currently have 44 programs in development, and our pipeline spans five therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, immuno-oncology, rare diseases, cardiovascular diseases and autoimmune diseases. In order to deliver on the full scope of the mRNA opportunity and maximize long-term value for patients and investors, we have developed four pillars underlying our product strategy that guide our near-term and long-term goals: 1. Continue to advance our COVID-19 program and bring to market a pan-respiratory annual booster vaccine. Our long-term vision is to develop, and seek regulatory approval for, a convenient, annual, single-dose booster against as many respiratory viruses as possible. mRNA vaccines have the ability to combine multiple different antigens into one vaccine. We believe a single-dose booster would provide significant value to patients and healthcare systems, as compliance and convenience would increase and there would be a reduction in vaccine administration costs. This vision includes a single-dose booster vaccine against COVID-19, seasonal flu and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). We are developing vaccines against each of these diseases individually, while also pursuing parallel development of combination vaccines. We are committed to bringing COVID-19 booster shots (variant-specific, if needed) to the market until the pandemic is under control. We have announced positive Phase 1 data for both our flu vaccine (mRNA-1010) and RSV vaccine (mRNA-1345). mRNA-1010 is preparing for a Phase 3 trial to start in 2022 and mRNA-1345 has started the Phase 3 portion of a pivotal Phase 2/3 study. We are also exploring agreements with governments around the world to establish local manufacturing capabilities in their countries, which would provide those governments with access to these annual vaccines, as well as future pandemic preparedness capabilities. 2. Bring to market first-in-class vaccines against latent viruses. Latent viruses, such as cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), cause acute infections and significant long-term effects, or sequelae. CMV infection is the leading infectious cause of birth defects in children in the U.S. and is a major driver of immune dysfunction with aging, including cardiovascular diseases, cancer and cognitive impairment. EBV infection is a 9 Table of Content major cause of infectious mononucleosis (IM), has been tied to increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis, and is associated with certain lymphoproliferative disorders, higher risk of developing cancer/autoimmune diseases and long-COVID. Untreated HIV infection caus