Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1C Cybersecurity 32 Item 2 Properties 34 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5 Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6 [Reserved] 35 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 113 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B Other Information 115 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 116 Item 11 Executive Compensation 116 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 116 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 116 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 116 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 117 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 129 Signatures 130 ii PART I Item 1. Business. References in this report to "we", "us" and "our" are to Marsh McLennan Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Marsh McLennan"), unless the context otherwise requires. GENERAL Marsh McLennan is the world's leading professional services firm in the areas of risk, strategy and people. We help clients build the confidence to thrive through the power of perspective of our four market-leading businesses. With annual revenue of $23 billion, we have more than 85,000 colleagues advising clients in over 130 countries. Marsh provides data-driven risk advisory services and insurance solutions to commercial and consumer clients. Guy Carpenter develops advanced risk, reinsurance and capital strategies that help clients grow profitably and pursue emerging opportunities. Mercer delivers advice and technology-driven solutions that help organizations redefine the world of work, reshape retirement and investment outcomes, and unlock health and well-being for a changing workforce. Oliver Wyman Group serves as a critical strategic, economic and brand advisor to private sector and governmental clients. Our four businesses also collaborate together to deliver new solutions to help clients manage complex and interconnected risks. The Company conducts business through two segments: Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter. Consulting includes health, wealth and career advice, solutions and products, and specialized management, strategic, economic and brand consulting services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group. We describe our current segments in further detail below. We provide financial information about our segments in our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report. OUR BUSINESSES RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES The Risk and Insurance Services segment generated approximately 62% of the Company's total revenue in 2023 and employs approxi mately 49,300 co lleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter. MARSH Marsh is the world's leading insurance broker and risk advisor, serving companies, institutions and individuals. From its founding in 1871 to the present day, Marsh has demonstrated a commitment to thought leadership, innovation and insurance expertise to meet its clients needs. Marsh s pioneering contributions include introducing the practice of client representation through brokerage, the discipline of risk management, the globalization of risk management services and the development of service platforms that identify, quantify, mitigate and transfer risk. Currently, approxima tely 45,800 Marsh colleagues provide risk management, insurance broking, insurance program management, risk consulting, analytical modeling and alternative risk financing services to a wide range of businesses, government entities, professional service organizations and individuals in over 130 countries. Marsh generated approximately 51% of the Company's total revenue in 2023 . Insurance Broking and Risk Advisory In its core insurance broking and risk advisory business, Marsh employs a team approach to identify, quantify and address clients' risk management and insurance needs. Marsh s product and service offerings include risk analysis, insurance program design and placement, insurance program support and administration, claims support and advocacy, alternative risk strategies and a wide array of risk analysis and risk management consulting services. Clients benefit from Marsh s advanced analytics, deep technical expertise, specialty and industry knowledge, collaborative global culture and the ability to develop innovative solutions and products. The firm s resources also include nearly three dozen specialty and industry practices, including cyber, construction, renewable energy, healthcare, and financial and professional service practices, along with ESG products such as 1 a D O insurance initiative recognizing U.S. based clients with superior ESG frameworks, and an established employee health benefits business. Marsh provides services to clients of all sizes, including large multinational companies ("Risk Management"), high growth middle-market businesses ("Corporate"), small commercial enterprises and high net-worth private clients, and affinity group members ("Commercial Consumer"). Marsh's segments are designed to build stronger value propositions and operating models to optimize solutions and services for clients depending on their needs. Risk Management. Marsh has an extensive global footprint and market-leading advisory and placement services that benefit large domestic and international companies and institutions facing complex risk exposures. These clients are also supported by Marsh s robust analytics and a growing digital experience. In addition, Marsh s largest global clients are serviced by Marsh Multinational, a dedicated team of colleagues from around the world focused on delivering service excellence and insurance solutions to clients wherever they are located. Marsh is digitizing the client experience through tools such as LINQ, Marsh s account and service application; Blue[i], a suite of analytics tools for clients; and Bluestream, a digital brokerage platform that enables clients to provide insurance to their customers or suppliers in a B2B2C distribution model. Marsh provides global expertise and an intimate knowledge of local markets, helping clients navigate local regulatory environments to address the worldwide risk issues that confront them. Marsh Specialty is an integrated and globally coordinated team of experts who provides clients in highly specialized industry and product areas with data driven insights, service, advice and access to global insurance markets. These specialists support clients who require advice and support across aviation space, credit specialties, construction, energy power, financial professional services (FINPRO), marine cargo, and private equity, mergers acquisitions (PEMA). Corporate. Middle market clients are served by Marsh s brokerage operations globally; this segment is also serviced by Marsh McLennan Agency (MMA) in the United States (U.S.). Marsh McLennan Agency (MMA) provides business insurance, employee health and benefits, retirement and wealth management, and private client insurance solutions to individuals and mid-market organizations. MMA advises on insurance program structure and market dynamics, along with industry expertise and transactional capability. Since its first acquisition in 2009, MMA has acquired more than 100 agencies. Commercial Consumer. Clients in this market segment typically face less complex risks and are served by Marsh s innovative product and placement offerings and growing capabilities in digitally enabled distribution and administration. Victor Insurance Managers (Victor ) is one of the largest underwriting managers of professional liability, catastrophe, and other specialty insurance programs worldwide. In the U.S., Victor Insurance Managers (US) and ICAT Managers underwrites, solicits, sells and services coverages through a national third-party distribution network of licensed brokers and agents. Through its Victor Small Business platform, Victor deploys cloud-based technology to enable independent insurance agents, on behalf of their small business clients, to obtain online quotes from multiple insurance providers and bind property and casualty and workers compensation insurance policies in real time. Victor also manages Torrent Technologies, the nation s largest service provider to the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), serving the NFIP both directly and through the NFIP s Write Your Own (WYO) program. Victor Insurance Managers (Canada), a leading managing general agent in Canada, delivers professional liability and construction insurance and other P C programs and administers group and retiree benefits programs and claims handling operations for individuals, organizations and businesses. Victor also has a business in the UK, the Netherlands, Italy, Germany and Australia. Marsh Affinity focuses on insurance programs sold to insureds or vendors through a corporate sponsor using an affinity distribution model. High Net Worth (HNW). Individual high net worth clients and family offices are serviced by MMA in the U.S. and other Marsh personal lines businesses globally. These businesses provide a single-source solution for high net worth clients and are dedicated to sourcing protections across a broad spectrum of risk. Using a consultative approach, Marsh's HNW practices analyze exposures and customize programs to cover individual clients with complex asset portfolios. 2 Additional Services and Adjacent Businesses In addition to insurance broking, Marsh provides certain other specialist advisory or placement services: Marsh Advisory is a global practice comprising specialists who use data and analytics, including through Marsh s Blue[i] digital analytics platform. Marsh Advisory s three main service areas (Consulting, Claims, and Analytics) advise clients on existing and emerging risk exposures, protecting critical business activities and developing strategies to optimize total cost of risk. Marsh Captive Solutions , a prominent part of the Marsh Specialty and Global Placement practice, helps organizations of all sizes retain risks through comprehensive and innovative captive solutions. This team is comprised of captive consultants, actuaries and captive management professionals which offer complete, end-to-end captive management services. Bowring Marsh is an international placement broker. This unit s core strategy is to modernize risk transfer advice and solutions for clients. This is executed through a combination of data solutions, capacity creation vehicles, segmentation, placement platforms (on-shoring solutions within the network), and improved operational efficiency all designed to yield a better client outcome and experience. The products Bowring Marsh places include property, casualty, terrorism, product recall, and special risks. Mercer Marsh Benefits provides health benefits brokerage and consulting services to clients of all sizes in numerous countries across the globe, outside of the U.S. As described below, Mercer and Marsh go to market together to provide strategic advice and services to help clients minimize risk, optimize benefits structure, drive efficiencies and maximize employee engagement. Services for Insurers Marsh's Insurer Consulting Group (ICG) provides services to insurance carriers. Through Marsh's patented electronic platform, MarketConnect, and sophisticated data analysis, ICG provides insurers with individualized preference setting and risk identification capabilities, as well as detailed performance data and metrics. Insurer consulting teams review performance metrics and preferences with insurers and provide customized consulting services to insurers designed to improve business planning and strategy implementation. ICG services are designed to improve the product offerings available to clients, assist insurers in identifying new opportunities and enhance insurers operational efficiency. The scope and nature of the services vary by insurer and by geography. GUY CARPENTER Guy Carpenter, the Company s reinsurance intermediary and advisor, generated approximately 11% of the Company's total revenue in 2023. Currently, approxi mately 3,500 Guy C arpenter colleagues provide clients with a combination of specialized reinsurance broking expertise, strategic advisory services and analytics solutions. Guy Carpenter creates and executes reinsurance and risk management solutions for clients worldwide through risk assessment analytics, actuarial services, highly-specialized product knowledge and trading relationships with reinsurance markets. Client services also include contract and claims management, reinsurance accounting and fiduciary services. Acting as a broker or intermediary on all classes of reinsurance, Guy Carpenter places two main types of property casualty and life / health reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks; and facultative reinsurance, which involves the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy. Guy Carpenter provides reinsurance services in a broad range of centers of excellence, segments and specialties including: Automobile / Motor, Aviation, Captives, Crop/Agriculture, Cyber, Engineering / Construction, Financial Lines, InsurTech, Life / Accident / Health, Marine and Energy, Medical Professional, Personal Lines, Mortgage, Political Risk Trade Credit, Primary Excess Casualty, Managing General Agents and Program Manager Solutions, Property, Public Sector, Regional / Mutual, Retrocessional Reinsurance, Surety, Terror, and Workers Compensation / Employer Liability. Guy Carpenter also offers clients alternatives to traditional reinsurance, including industry loss warranties and, through its licensed affiliates, capital markets alternatives such as transferring catastrophe risk through the issuance of insurance-linked securities. GC Securities, the Guy Carpenter division of MMC Securities LLC and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, offer corporate finance solutions, including mergers acquisitions advice and private debt and equity capital raising, and capital markets-based risk transfer solutions that complement Guy Carpenter's strong industry relationships, analytical capabilities and reinsurance expertise. 3 Guy Carpenter also provides its clients with reinsurance-related services, including actuarial, enterprise risk management, financial and regulatory consulting, portfolio analysis and advice on the efficient use of capital. Guy Carpenter's Global Strategic Advisory ("GSA") unit helps clients better understand and quantify the uncertainties inherent in their businesses. Working in close partnership with Guy Carpenter account executives, GSA specialists help support clients' critical decisions in numerous areas, including reinsurance utilization, catastrophe exposure portfolio management, new product and market development, rating agency, regulatory and account impacts, loss reserve risk, capital adequacy and return on capital. Compensation for Services in Risk and Insurance Services Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services through commissions and fees. Commission rates and fees vary in amount and can depend on a number of factors, including the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer selected, and the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiates with clients. In addition to compensation from its clients, Marsh also receives other compensation, separate from retail fees and commissions, from insurance companies. This other compensation includes, among other things, payments for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; compensation for administrative and other services (including fees for underwriting services and services provided to or on behalf of insurers relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions, which are paid by insurers based on factors such as volume or profitability of Marsh's placements, primarily driven by MMA and parts of Marsh's international operations. Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, refer to Part II, Item 7 ("Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") of this report. CONSULTING The Company's Consulting segment generated approximately 38% of the Company's total revenue in 2023 and employs approxima tely 31,300 c olleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group . MERCER Mercer is a leading provider in delivering advice, solutions and products that help organizations meet the health, wealth and career needs of a changing workforce. Mercer has approximate ly 24,500 colleagues based in 48 countries. Clients include a majority of the companies in the Fortune 1000 and FTSE 100, as well as medium- and small-market organizations, public sector entities and individual customers. Mercer generated approximately 24% of the Company's total revenue in 2023. Mercer operates in the following areas: Health. Mercer helps public and private sector employers design and manage employee health and welfare programs; administer health benefits and flexible benefits programs, including benefits outsourcing; engage employees with their health benefits through a digital experience; and comply with local benefits-related regulations. Mercer provides a range of advice and solutions to clients, which, depending on the engagement, may include: total health and wellness management strategies; global health brokerage solutions; vendor performance and audit; life and disability management; and measurement of healthcare provider performance. These services are provided through fee-based consulting as well as commission-based brokerage services in connection with the selection of insurance companies and healthcare providers. Mercer also provides consulting and actuarial services to U.S. state governments to support the purchase of healthcare through state Medicaid programs. Mercer offers clients tools to enhance employee engagement with their health benefits through its Darwin SM platform. Outside of the U.S., Mercer and Marsh go to market together for Health benefits brokerage and consulting under the Mercer Marsh Benefits SM (MMB) brand, as described above. Wealth. Through its Wealth business, Mercer assists clients worldwide in the design, governance and risk management of defined benefit, defined contribution, hybrid retirement plans and other pools of assets, and with investment of those assets. 4 Mercer provides actuarial consulting, investment consulting, investment management and related services to the sponsors and trustees of pension plans, master trusts, foundations, endowments, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and family offices. Mercer also provides investment consulting and investment management services to U.S. public sector clients, financial intermediaries and individuals. Mercer provides retirement plan outsourcing, including administration and delivery of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement benefits. Mercer's investment consulting and investment management services (investment management services may also be referred to as "investment solutions," "delegated solutions," "fiduciary management" or "outsourced Chief Investment Officer (OCIO) services") cover a range of stages of the investment process, from investment research (through its Mercer-Insight service), asset allocation and implementation of investment strategies to ongoing portfolio management services. Mercer provides these services primarily to institutional and other sophisticated investors including retirement plans (e.g., defined benefit and defined contribution), master trusts, endowments and foundations, sovereign wealth funds, U.S. public sector clients, insurance companies and family offices, as well as wealth managers and other financial intermediaries, primarily through manager of manager strategies and funds sponsored and managed by Mercer. Mercer s clients invest in both traditional asset classes (e.g., equities, fixed income and cash equivalents) and alternative or private market strategies (e.g., private equity, private debt, real estate, other real assets and hedge funds). As of December 31, 2023, Mercer and its global affiliates had assets under management of approximately $420 billion worldwide. Mercer also provides services to individual retail clients, including financial planning, high net worth risk solutions and other discretionary investment services. Career. Mercer advises organizations on the engagement, skill assessment, management and reward of employees; the design of executive remuneration programs; people and workforce strategies during business transformation; improvement of human resource (HR) effectiveness; and the implementation of digital and cloud-based Human Resource Information Systems. In addition, through proprietary survey data and decision support tools, Mercer provides clients with human capital information and analytical capabilities to improve strategic human capital decision making. Mercer s Career products include solutions relating to rewards, mobility, engagement, workforce analytics and assessments. Mercer helps clients plan and implement HR programs and other organizational changes designed to maximize employee engagement. Mercer also provides advice relating to people and benefits-related issues to buyers and sellers in a variety of types of M A transactions. OLIVER WYMAN GROUP With more tha n 6,800 professionals and offices in over 30 countries, Oliver Wyman Group delivers advisory services to clients through three operating units, each of which is a leader in its field: Oliver Wyman, Lippincott and NERA Economic Consulting. Oliver Wyman Group generated approximately 14% of the Company's total revenue in 2023. Oliver Wyman is a global leader in management consulting and combines deep industry knowledge with specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management and organization transformation. The firm works with clients around the world to help optimize their business, improve their operations and risk profile, and accelerate their organizational performance to seize attractive opportunities. Industry groups include: Automotive and Manufacturing Industries Communications, Media Technology Energy and Natural Resources Financial Services (including corporate and institutional banking, public policy, and retail and business banking) Insurance and Asset Management Health and Life Sciences Public Sector Private Capital Retail Consumer Goods 5 Transportation Services (including aviation; aerospace and defense; rail; express, postal and third party logistics; services, including travel and leisure, environmental and facility management, and business and tech services; and CAVOK, which provides technical consulting and market forecasting services) Oliver Wyman overlays its industry knowledge with expertise in the following functional specializations: Actuarial . Oliver Wyman s Actuarial Practice uses mathematical and statistical modeling skills and qualitative assessment methodologies to assist clients in evaluating and addressing risk. Climate and Sustainability . Oliver Wyman assists clients in cutting through complex climate systems and solving for operational efficiencies. Oliver Wyman helps clients discover new business opportunities, create new pathways, and respond to climate risk, to make needed changes commercially compelling. Finance and Risk . Oliver Wyman provides leading financial institutions with custom solutions and insights covering all aspects of risk and finance functions, including credit risk, market risks, asset and liability management and liquidity risks, and non-financial risks, together with integrated risk management topics, such as aggregated risk analyses, business applications and culture and organization. Restructuring. Oliver Wyman offers a complete management solution and "one-stop-shop" approach to turning around companies, providing strategic, operational, and financial restructuring advice. Digital . Oliver Wyman partners with clients to address their digital challenges, blending the power of digital with deep industry expertise. By building strong capabilities and culture, Oliver Wyman accelerates and embeds digital transformation, working collaboratively with clients leaders, employees, stakeholders, and customers to jointly define, design, and achieve lasting results. Operations. Oliver Wyman helps organizations leverage their operations for a competitive advantage using a comprehensive set of capabilities, including performance improvement, digital operations strategy, and risk management. People and Organizational Performance. Oliver Wyman's People and Organizational Performance capability brings together deep functional expertise and industry knowledge to enable the whole organization to work in service of its strategic vision and to address the most pressing organizational, people, and change issues. Payments. Oliver Wyman draws on years of industry-shaping work in the Financial Services and Retail industries, deep digital expertise, and renowned research partners in its Celent business, to help clients - from banks/issuers, to payments providers, to retailers - to build growth strategies, form effective partnerships, optimize costs, and manage risk. Pricing, Sales, and Marketing. Oliver Wyman helps organizations drive top-line and margin growth through outstanding strategy and decision making on pricing, marketing optimization, and best practices on sales effectiveness. Customer First . Oliver Wyman helps bring together capabilities required to identify customer and business growth, conduct detailed business design, build and launch a business, and maintain a focus on realizing growth while de-risking delivery. Performance Transformation . Oliver Wyman helps clients to design, realize and sustain value growth via large-scale transformations. Lippincott is a creative consultancy specializing in brand and innovation that shapes recognized brands and experiences for clients globally. Lippincott's designers have helped create some of the world's most recognized brands. NERA Economic Consulting provides economic analysis and advice to public and private entities to achieve practical solutions to highly complex business and legal issues arising from competition, regulation, public policy, strategy, finance and litigation. NERA professionals operate worldwide assisting clients including corporations, governments, law firms, regulatory agencies, trade associations, and international agencies. NERA's specialized practice areas include: antitrust; securities; complex commercial litigation; energy; environmental economics; network industries; intellectual property; product liability and mass torts; and transfer pricing. 6 Compensation for Services in Consulting Oliver Wyman Group is compensated for advice and services primarily through fees paid by clients. Mercer is compensated for advice and services through fees paid by clients, commissions and fees based on assets or members. In the majority of cases, Mercer's Health business is compensated through commissions for the placement of insurance contracts and supplemental compensation from insurers based on such factors as volume, growth of accounts, and total retention of accounts placed by Mercer. Mercer may receive commissions in other parts of its business, such as its Private Client Services business and certain financial advice businesses. Mercer's investments business and certain of Mercer's administration services are compensated typically through fees based on assets under administration or management or fee per member. For a majority of the Mercer-managed investment funds, revenue received from Mercer's investment management clients as sub-advisor fees is reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP, on a gross basis rather than a net basis. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in the Consulting segment, refer to Part II, Item 7 ("Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") of this report. REGULATION The Company's activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as laws of other countries in which the Company operates. Across most jurisdictions, we are also subject to various data privacy and data protection laws and regulations that apply to personal information, as well as, in certain jurisdictions, cybersecurity laws and regulations and emerging laws and regulations related to artificial intelligence ("AI"). In addition, we are subject to various financial crime laws and regulations through our activities, activities of associated persons, the products and serv