Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 14 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2 Properties 33 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5 Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 117 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 117 Item 9B Other Information 119 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 120 Item 11 Executive Compensation 120 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 120 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 120 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 120 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 121 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 134 Signatures 135 ii PART I Item 1. Business. References in this report to "we", "us" and "our" are to Marsh McLennan Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Marsh McLennan"), unless the context otherwise requires. GENERAL Marsh McLennan is the world's leading professional services firm in the areas of risk, strategy and people. The Company's 83,000 colleagues advise clients in over 130 countries. With annual revenue of nearly $20 billion, Marsh McLennan helps clients navigate an increasingly dynamic and complex environment through four market-leading businesses. Marsh provides data-driven risk advisory services and insurance solutions to commercial and consumer clients. Guy Carpenter develops advanced risk, reinsurance and capital strategies that help clients grow profitably and identify and capitalize on emerging opportunities. Mercer delivers advice and technology-driven solutions that help organizations redefine the world of work, reshape retirement and investment outcomes, and unlock health and well being for a changing workforce. Oliver Wyman serves as a critical strategic, economic and brand advisor to private sector and governmental clients. The Company conducts business through two segments: Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter. Consulting includes health, wealth and career services and products, and specialized management, economic and brand consulting services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group. We describe our current segments in further detail below. We provide financial information about our segments in our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report. OUR BUSINESSES RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES The Risk and Insurance Services segment generated approximately 61% of the Company's total revenue in 2021 and employs approximately 48,800 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter. MARSH Marsh is the world's leading insurance broker and risk advisor, serving companies, institutions and individuals. From its founding in 1871 to the present day, Marsh has demonstrated a commitment to thought leadership, innovation and insurance expertise to meet its clients needs. Marsh s pioneering contributions include introducing the practice of client representation through brokerage, the discipline of risk management, the globalization of risk management services and the development of service platforms that identify, quantify, mitigate and transfer risk. Currently, approximately 45,400 Marsh colleagues provide risk management, insurance broking, insurance program management, risk consulting, analytical modeling and alternative risk financing services to a wide range of businesses, government entities, professional service organizations and individuals in more than 130 countries. Marsh generated approximately 52% of the Company's total revenue in 2021 . Insurance Broking and Risk Advisory In its core insurance broking and risk advisory business, Marsh employs a team approach to identify, quantify and address clients' risk management and insurance needs. Marsh s product and service offerings include risk analysis, insurance program design and placement, insurance program support and administration, claims support and advocacy, alternative risk strategies and a wide array of risk analysis and risk management consulting services. Clients benefit from Marsh s advanced analytics, deep technical expertise, specialty and industry knowledge, collaborative global culture and the ability to 1 develop innovative solutions and products. The firm s resources also include nearly three dozen specialty and industry practices, including cyber, marine, renewable energy, healthcare, and financial and professional service practices, along with ESG products such as our D O insurance initiative recognizing U.S. based clients with superior ESG frameworks, and an established employee health benefits business. Marsh provides services to clients of all sizes, including large multinational companies ("Risk Management"), high growth middle-market businesses ("Corporate"), small commercial enterprises and high net-worth private clients, and affinity group members ("Commercial Consumer"). Marsh's segments are designed to build stronger value propositions and operating models to optimize solutions and services for clients depending on their needs. Risk Management. Marsh has an extensive global footprint and market-leading advisory and placement services that benefit large domestic and international companies and institutions facing complex risk exposures. These clients are also supported by Marsh s robust analytics and a growing digital experience. In addition, Marsh s largest global clients are serviced by Marsh Multinational, a dedicated team of colleagues from around the world focused on delivering service excellence and insurance solutions to clients wherever they are located. Marsh is digitizing the client experience through tools such as LINQ, Marsh s account and service application; Blue[i], a suite of analytics tools for clients; and Bluestream, a digital brokerage platform that enables clients to provide insurance to their customers or suppliers in a B2B2C distribution model. Marsh provides global expertise and an intimate knowledge of local markets, helping clients navigate local regulatory environments to address the worldwide risk issues that confront them. Marsh Specialty . Marsh Specialty is a leading global specialty broker. This unit offers leading expertise, global service and data-driven insights to clients across seven global specialties: aviation; credit specialties; financial professional services; private equity mergers acquisitions; construction; energy power; and marine cargo. These teams of specialist experts are globally committed to delivering consulting, placement, account management and claims solutions to clients who require specialist advice and support. Corporate. Middle market clients are served by Marsh s brokerage operations globally; the Corporate segment constitutes a substantial majority of clients served by Marsh McLennan Agency (MMA) in the United States, and a large portion of Marsh s international business. MMA offers a broad range of commercial property and casualty products and services, as well as solutions for employee health and benefits, retirement and administration needs and a growing personal lines business in the United States and Canada. Since its first acquisition in 2009, MMA has acquired 94 agencies. MMA provides advice on insurance program structure and market dynamics, along with industry expertise and transactional capability. Commercial Consumer. Clients in this market segment typically face less complex risks and are served by Marsh s innovative product and placement offerings and growing capabilities in digitally enabled distribution. Victor Insurance Holdings (Victor ) is one of the largest underwriting managers of professional liability and specialty insurance programs worldwide. In the United States, Victor Insurance Managers (US) and ICAT Managers deliver risk management and insurance solutions to insureds through a national third-party distribution network of licensed brokers. Through Dovetail Managing General Agency, a small business platform, Victor deploys cloud-based technology to enable independent insurance agents, on behalf of their small business clients, to obtain online quotes from multiple insurance providers and bind property and casualty and workers compensation insurance policies in real time. Victor Insurance Managers (Canada), a leading managing general agent in Canada, delivers professional liability and construction insurance and administers group and retiree benefits programs and claims handling operations for individuals, organizations and businesses. Victor also has a business in the UK and in Europe, where businesses have been launched in the Netherlands, Italy and Germany. In addition, Victor manages Torrent Technologies, a service provider to Write Your Own (WYO) insurers participating in the National 2 Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in the United States. Torrent offers both NFIP and private and excess flood insurance products and services to WYO companies and agents. Marsh Affinity focuses on insurance programs sold to insureds or vendors through a corporate sponsor using an affinity distribution model. High Net Worth (HNW). Individual high net worth clients and family offices are serviced by MMA and other Marsh personal lines businesses globally. These businesses provide a single-source solution for high net worth clients and are dedicated to sourcing protections across a broad spectrum of risk. Using a consultative approach, Marsh's HNW practices analyze exposures and customize programs to cover individual clients with complex asset portfolios. Additional Services and Adjacent Businesses In addition to insurance broking, Marsh provides certain other specialist advisory or placement services: Marsh Advisory is a global practice comprising specialists who use data and analytics, including through Marsh s Blue[i] digital analytics platform, to advise clients about exposures, critical business activities, and risk practices and strategies. Marsh Advisory provides client services in four main areas: Consulting Solutions, Analytics Solutions, Claims Solutions, and Captive Solutions. Marsh Captive Solutions , a prominent part of the Marsh Advisory practice, provides services to captive facilities, including single-parent captives, reinsurance pools and risk retention groups. The Captive Solutions practice operates in captive domiciles across the globe and leverages the consulting expertise within Marsh s brokerage offices worldwide. The practice includes the Captive Advisory Group, a consulting arm that performs captive feasibility studies and helps to structure and implement captive solutions; the Captive Management Group, an industry leader in managing captive facilities and in providing administrative, consultative and insurance-related services; and the Actuarial Services Group, which is comprised of credentialed actuaries and supporting actuarial analysts. Bowring Marsh is an international placement broker primarily for property and casualty risks. Bowring Marsh uses placement expertise in major international insurance market hubs, including Bermuda, China, United Arab Emirates, Ireland, Spain, United Kingdom, the United States, Singapore, Japan and Switzerland, and an integrated global network to secure advantageous terms and conditions for its clients throughout the world. Mercer Marsh Benefits provides health benefits brokerage services and consulting to clients of all sizes in numerous countries across the globe, outside of the United States. As described below, Mercer and Marsh go to market together to provide strategic advice and services to minimize risk, optimize benefits structure, and maximize employee engagement. Services for Insurers Insurer Consulting Group provides services to insurance carriers. Through Marsh's patented electronic platform, MarketConnect, and sophisticated data analysis, Marsh provides insurers with individualized preference setting and risk identification capabilities, as well as detailed performance data and metrics. Insurer consulting teams review performance metrics and preferences with insurers and provide customized consulting services to insurers designed to improve business planning and strategy implementation. Marsh's Insurer Consulting services are designed to improve the product offerings available to clients, assist insurers in identifying new opportunities and enhance insurers operational efficiency. The scope and nature of the services vary by insurer and by geography. 3 GUY CARPENTER Guy Carpenter, the Company s reinsurance intermediary and advisor, generated approximately 9% of the Company's total revenue in 2021. Currently, approximately 3,400 Guy Carpenter colleagues provide clients with a combination of specialized reinsurance broking expertise, strategic advisory services and analytics solutions. Guy Carpenter creates and executes reinsurance and risk management solutions for clients worldwide through risk assessment analytics, actuarial services, highly-specialized product knowledge and trading relationships with reinsurance markets. Client services also include contract and claims management and fiduciary accounting. Acting as a broker or intermediary on all classes of reinsurance, Guy Carpenter places two main types of property casualty and life / health reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks; and facultative reinsurance, which involves the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy. Guy Carpenter provides reinsurance services in a broad range of centers of excellence and segments, including: Automobile / Motor, Aviation, Captives, Crop/Agriculture, Cyber, D O/Non-Medical Professional, Engineering / Construction, Environmental, Financial Lines, Health, InsurTech, Life, Marine and Energy, Medical Professional, Personal Lines, Mortgage, Political Risk Trade Credit, Primary Excess Casualty, Program Manager Solutions, Property, Public Sector, Regional / Mutual, Retrocessional Reinsurance, Surety, Terror, and Workers Compensation / Employer Liability. Guy Carpenter also offers clients alternatives to traditional reinsurance, including industry loss warranties and, through its licensed affiliates, capital markets alternatives such as transferring catastrophe risk through the issuance of risk-linked securities. GC Securities, the Guy Carpenter division of MMC Securities LLC and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, offers corporate finance solutions, including mergers acquisitions advice and private debt and equity capital raising, and capital markets-based risk transfer solutions that complement Guy Carpenter's strong industry relationships, analytical capabilities and reinsurance expertise. Guy Carpenter also provides its clients with reinsurance-related services, including actuarial, enterprise risk management, financial and regulatory consulting, portfolio analysis and advice on the efficient use of capital. Guy Carpenter's Global Strategic Advisory ("GSA") unit helps clients better understand and quantify the uncertainties inherent in their businesses. Working in close partnership with Guy Carpenter account executives, GSA specialists help support clients' critical decisions in numerous areas, including reinsurance utilization, catastrophe exposure portfolio management, new product and market development, rating agency, regulatory and account impacts, loss reserve risk, capital adequacy and return on capital. Compensation for Services in Risk and Insurance Services Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services through commissions and fees. Commission rates and fees vary in amount and can depend on a number of factors, including the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer selected, and the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiates with clients. In addition to compensation from its clients, Marsh also receives other compensation, separate from retail fees and commissions, from insurance companies. This other compensation includes, among other things, payments for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; compensation for administrative and other services (including fees for underwriting services and services provided to or on behalf of insurers relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions, which are paid by insurers based on factors such as volume or profitability of Marsh's placements, primarily driven by MMA and parts of Marsh's international operations. Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, see Part II, Item 7 ("Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") of this report. 4 CONSULTING The Company's Consulting segment generated approximately 39% of the Company's total revenue in 2021 and employs approximately 31,200 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group . MERCER Mercer delivers advice and solutions that help organizations meet the health, wealth and career needs of a changing workforce. Mercer has approximately 25,700 colleagues based in 48 countries. Clients include a majority of the companies in the Fortune 1000 and FTSE 100, as well as medium- and small-market organizations, public sector entities and individual customers. Mercer generated approximately 26% of the Company's total revenue in 2021. Mercer operates in the following areas: Health. Mercer assists public and private sector employers in the design and management of employee health care and welfare programs; administer health benefits and flexible benefits programs, including benefits outsourcing; engage employees with their health benefits through a digital experience; and comply with local benefits-related regulations. Mercer provides a range of advice and solutions to clients, which, depending on the engagement, may include: total health and wellness management strategies; global health brokerage solutions; vendor performance and audit; life and disability management; and measurement of healthcare provider performance. These services are provided through traditional fee-based consulting as well as commission-based brokerage services in connection with the selection of insurance companies and healthcare providers. Mercer provides solutions for private active and retiree exchanges in the United States. Mercer also provides consulting and actuarial services to U.S. state governments to support the purchase of healthcare through state Medicaid programs. Outside of the U.S., Mercer and Marsh go to market together for Health benefits brokerage and consulting under the Mercer Marsh Benefits SM (MMB) brand. Among other services, Mercer provides consulting services to insurance carriers through the MMB brand to assist them with improving product offerings available to clients, identifying new opportunities and enhancing insurers operational efficiency. The scope and nature of the services vary by insurer and geography. Mercer offers clients tools to enhance employee engagement with their health benefits through its Darwin SM platform. Wealth. Through its Wealth business, Mercer assists clients worldwide in the design, governance and risk management of defined benefit, defined contribution and hybrid retirement plans and with investment of those assets. Mercer provides actuarial consulting, investment consulting, investment management and related services to the sponsors and trustees of pension plans, master trusts, foundations, endowments, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and family offices. Mercer also provides wealth management services to financial intermediary firms and individuals. Mercer provides retirement plan outsourcing, including administration and delivery of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement benefits. Mercer's investment consulting and investment management services (investment management services may also be referred to as investment solutions, delegated solutions, fiduciary management or outsourced Chief Investment Officer (OCIO) services ) cover a range of stages of the investment process, from strategy, asset allocation and implementation of investment strategies to ongoing portfolio management services. Mercer provides these services primarily to institutional and other sophisticated investors including retirement plans (e.g., defined benefit and defined contribution), master trusts, endowments and foundations sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and family offices, as well as wealth managers and other financial intermediary firms, primarily through manager of manager funds sponsored and managed by Mercer. Mercer s clients invest in both traditional asset classes (e.g., equities, fixed income and cash equivalents) and alternative or private market strategies (e.g., private equity, private debt, real estate, other real assets and hedge funds). As of December 31, 2021, Mercer and its global affiliates had assets under management of approximately $415 billion worldwide. Mercer also provides services to individual retail clients, including financial planning, high net worth risk solutions and other discretionary investment services. 5 Career. Mercer advises organizations on the engagement, skill assessment, management and reward of employees; the design of executive remuneration programs; people strategies during business transformation; improvement of human resource (HR) effectiveness; and the implementation of digital and cloud-based Human Resource Information Systems. In addition, through proprietary survey data and decision support tools, Mercer provides clients with human capital information and analytical capabilities to improve strategic human capital decision making. Mercer helps clients plan and implement HR programs and other organizational changes designed to maximize employee engagement. Mercer also provides advice relating to people and benefits-related issues to buyers and sellers in a variety of types of M A transactions. OLIVER WYMAN GROUP With more than 5,500 professionals and offices in 32 countries, Oliver Wyman Group delivers advisory services to clients through three operating units, each of which is a leader in its field: Oliver Wyman, Lippincott and NERA Economic Consulting. Oliver Wyman Group generated approximately 13% of the Company's total revenue in 2021. Oliver Wyman is a global leader in management consulting. Oliver Wyman combines deep industry knowledge with specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management and organization transformation. Industry groups include: Automotive Aviation, Aerospace Defense Business Services Communications, Media Technology Distribution Wholesale Education Energy Financial Services (including corporate and institutional banking, insurance, wealth and asset management, public policy, and retail and business banking) Health Life Sciences Industrial Products Public Sector Retail Consumer Products Surface Transportation Travel Leisure Oliver Wyman overlays its industry knowledge with expertise in the following functional specializations: Actuarial . Oliver Wyman s Actuarial Practice uses mathematical and statistical modeling skills and qualitative assessment methodologies to assist clients in evaluating and addressing risk. Climate and Sustainability . Oliver Wyman assists clients in cutting through complex climate systems and solving for operational efficiencies. Oliver Wyman helps clients discover new business opportunities, create new pathways, and respond to climate risk, to make needed changes commercially compelling. Corporate Finance Restructuring. Oliver Wyman provides an array of capabilities to support investment decision making by private equity funds, hedge funds, sovereign wealth funds, investment banks, commercial banks, arrangers, strategic investors and insurers. Digital . Oliver Wyman partners with clients to address their digital challenges, blending the power of digital with deep industry expertise. By building strong capabilities and culture, Oliver Wyman accelerates and embeds digital transformation, working collaboratively with clients leaders, employees, stakeholders, and customers to jointly define, design, and achieve lasting results. 6 Operations. Oliver Wyman helps organizations leverage their operations for a competitive advantage using a comprehensive set of capabilities, including performance improvement, digital operations strategy, and risk management. Organizational Effectiveness. Oliver Wyman's Organizational Effectiveness capability brings together deep functional expertise and industry knowledge to enable the whole organization to work in service of its strategic vision and to address the most pressing organizational, people, and change issues. Payments. Oliver Wyman draws on years of industry-shaping work in the Financial Services and Retail industries, deep digital expertise, and renowned research partners in its Celent business, to help clients - from banks/issuers, to payments providers, to retailers - to build growth strategies, form effective partnerships, optimize costs, and manage risk. Pricing, Sales, and Marketing. Oliver Wyman helps organizations drive top-line and margin growth through outstanding strategy and decision making on pricing, marketing optimization, and best practices on sales effectiveness. Risk Management. Oliver Wyman works with chief financial officers, chief risk officers, and other senior finance and risk management executives of corporations and financial institutions on risk management solutions. Oliver Wyman provides effective, customized solutions to the challenges presented by the evolving roles, needs and priorities of these individuals and organizations. Strategy . Oliver Wyman is a leading provider of corporate strategy advice and solutions in the areas of growth strategy and corporate portfolio; non-organic growth and M A; performance improvement; business design and innovation; corporate center and shared services; and strategic planning. Lippincott is a creative consultancy specializing in brand and innovation that shapes recognized brands and experiences for clients globally. Lippincott's designers have helped create some of the world's most recognized brands. NERA Economic Consulting provides economic analysis and advice to public and private entities to achieve practical solutions to highly complex business and legal issues arising from competition, regulation, public policy, strategy, finance and litigation. NERA professionals operate worldwide assisting clients including corporations, governments, law firms, regulatory agencies, trade associations, and international agencies. NERA's specialized practice areas include: antitrust; securities; complex commercial litigation; energy; environmental economics; network industries; intellectual property; product liability and mass torts; and transfer pricing. Compensation for Services in Consulting Oliver Wyman Group is compensated for advice and services primarily through fees paid by clients. Mercer is compensated for advice and services through fees paid by clients, commissions and fees based on assets or members. In the majority of cases, Mercer's Health business is compensated through commissions for the placement of insurance contracts and supplemental compensation from insurers based on such factors as volume, growth of accounts, and total retention of accounts placed by Mercer. Mercer may receive commissions in other parts of its business, such as its Private Client Services business and certain financial advice businesses. Mercer's investments business and certain of Mercer's administration services are compensated typically through fees based on assets under administration or management or fee per member. For a majority of the Mercer-managed investment funds, revenue received from Mercer's investment management clients as sub-advisor fees is reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP, on a gross basis rather than a net basis. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in the Consulting segment, see Part II, Item 7 ("Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") of this report. REGULATION The Company's activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as laws of other countries in which the Company's subsidiaries operate. Across most jurisdictions, we are also subject to various data privacy laws and regulations that apply to personal information belonging to our clients, their employees and third parties, as well as our own 7 colleagues. In addition, we are subject to various financial crime laws and regulations through our activities, activities of associated persons, the products and services we provide and our business and clie