Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 1 C . C ybersecurity 31 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. [Reserved] 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdiction that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 95 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 95 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 96 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 99 Except as the context otherwise indicates, the terms MSCI, the Company, we, our and us refer to MSCI Inc. together with its subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us, as well as those owned by others. MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics, Real Capital Analytics and other MSCI brands and product names are the trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks of MSCI, its subsidiaries or licensors in the United States and other jurisdictions. Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and from time to time may make in our public filings, press releases or other public statements, certain statements that constitute forward-looking statements. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and represent only MSCI s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as may, could, expect, intend, plan, seek, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Statements concerning our financial position, business strategy and plans or objectives for future operations are forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are, in some cases, beyond our control and that could materially affect our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if MSCI s underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from what MSCI projected. Any forward-looking statement reflects our current views with respect to future events levels of activity, performance or achievements and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in time. MSCI assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Therefore, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leading provider of critical decision support tools and solutions for the global investment community. Our mission-critical offerings help investors address the challenges of a transforming investment landscape and power better investment decisions. Leveraging our knowledge of the global investment process and our expertise in research, data and technology, we enable our clients to understand and analyze key drivers of risk and return and confidently and efficiently build more effective portfolios. Investors all over the world use our research-driven and technology-enabled tools and solutions to gain insights and improve transparency throughout their investment processes. Our tools and solutions help investors define their investment universe; inform and analyze their asset allocation and portfolio construction decisions; measure and manage portfolio performance and risk; implement sustainable, climate-focused and other investment strategies; conduct performance attribution; construct and manage exchange traded funds ( ETFs ) and other indexed financial products; and facilitate reporting to stakeholders. Our products and services include indexes; portfolio construction and risk management tools; environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) and climate solutions; and private asset data and analysis. We are increasingly focused on open and flexible technology, and our content and capabilities can be accessed by our clients through multiple channels and platforms. We aim to anticipate the needs of the investment industry with our client-centric focus and our deep understanding of our clients needs, challenges and goals. We are focused on product innovation and data collection to address the evolving needs of an increasingly complex industry. In order to most effectively serve our clients, we are committed to advancing an integrated approach to our offerings, achieving service excellence, enhancing our differentiated research and content, and delivering our solutions via flexible, cutting-edge technology. Clients Our clients comprise a wide spectrum of the global investment industry and include the following key client types: Asset owners (including pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, sovereign wealth funds, family offices and insurance companies) Asset managers (including managers of institutional funds and accounts, mutual funds, hedge funds, ETFs, insurance products, private banking products and real estate investment trusts) Financial intermediaries (including banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians, trust companies, fund administrators and investment consultants) Wealth managers (including large wealth management organizations, robo-advisors and self-directed brokerages) Real Estate Professionals (including real estate brokers, agents, developers, lenders and appraisers) Corporates (including public and private companies and their advisors) As of December 31, 2023 we served approximately 7,000 clients 1 in more than 95 countries. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our largest client organization by revenue, BlackRock, accounted for 9.8% of our consolidated operating revenues, with 95.4% of the operating revenues from BlackRock coming from fees based on the assets in BlackRock s ETFs and non-ETF products that are based on our indexes. Industry Trends and Competitive Advantages We believe we are uniquely positioned to benefit from emerging trends and to help our clients adapt to a large and rapidly expanding and evolving investment industry. Investing has grown in complexity, with more choices across asset classes, security types and geographies, and more consideration of a wider array of risks and opportunities, including those related to sustainable investing. In addition, the construction and management of investment portfolios are becoming increasingly outcome-oriented, rules-based and 1 Reflects the aggregation of all related client entities under their respective parent client entity. At acquisition, we align an acquired Company s client count to our methodology. As of December 31, 2023, recent acquisitions brought approximately 1,000 clients of which approximately 600 clients were not previous clients of MSCI. 2 Table of Contents technology-driven. As a result, the investment process is transforming, which is reflected in several trends we have observed, including: Changing client operating models and business strategies, driven in part by fee compression, changing demographics, the regulatory environment and shifting economic outlooks; Use of global, multi-asset-class and other complex investment strategies, including strategies incorporating private asset investments and factor objectives, as investors seek specific and unique outcomes; The need for high-quality data, insightful models and timely research during times of volatility and high uncertainty; Integration of ESG and climate considerations into investment processes, reporting and products, as investors focus on companies with strong sustainability practices as an indicator of long-term resilience; Growth of indexed investing through indexed investment products such as ETFs, mutual/UCITS funds and annuities, as well as indexed derivatives such as futures, options, structured products and over-the-counter swaps, and other vehicles that seek to track an index, as investors seek lower-cost investment strategies or seek to incorporate complex investment strategies across geographies, sectors, factors, trends and other considerations; Allocation of capital to private assets and desire for greater transparency into the performance of private assets; Interest in high-quality data and greater disclosure, leading to increased demand for streamlined reporting solutions; Demand for data and tools that clients can integrate to support customized portfolio construction and highly specialized preferences and objectives; and Use of advanced technologies to enhance investment analytics, collect and evaluate data, improve client experiences, streamline operations, create efficiencies and gain competitive advantages. We believe the following competitive advantages position us well to meet client demands in light of these trends: Differentiated research-enhanced content provides our clients with insights to better understand and adapt to a complex and fast-changing marketplace. We are continually developing a wide range of differentiated content and have amassed an extensive database of historical global market data; proprietary equity index data; ESG and climate data and metrics; factor models; private asset performance, transaction and benchmark data, including fund- and asset-level data; and risk algorithms, all of which can be critical components of our clients investment processes. This content is grounded in our deep knowledge of the global investment process and fueled by experienced research and product development and data management teams. Client-centricity allows us to build strong client relationships globally and better understand and service our clients needs in the markets in which they operate. Our client coverage team develops and maintains strong and trusted relationships with senior executives and investment professionals, and we regularly consult with clients and other market participants to discuss their needs, investment trends and implications for our research, product development and client servicing goals. Strong product innovation, supported by flexible, scalable, cutting-edge technology developed by our global team of sophisticated technology and data professionals, enables clients to use MSCI, third-party and their own content efficiently and cost-effectively. Our commitment to open and flexible technology allows us to process data more efficiently for distribution and deliver advanced platform flexibility for easy integration into our clients workflows. We are also partnering with global technology companies to accelerate the development of generative artificial intelligence ( AI ) solutions for the investment industry to help clients build better portfolios with deeper, data-driven insights. Strategy We provide critical tools and solutions that enable investors to manage the transformations taking place in the investment industry, better understand the drivers of performance and risk, and build portfolios more effectively and efficiently to achieve their investment objectives. We are focused on the following key initiatives to deliver actionable and integrated client solutions: Extend leadership in research-enhanced content across asset classes. We continue to develop and deliver innovative solutions that incorporate proprietary and highly differentiated content based on rich insights from our research and product development teams. In addition to enhancing our position as a leading provider of tools and solutions for equity investors globally, our strategic priorities also include enhancing our content relating to other asset classes 3 Table of Contents and strategies, including ESG and climate, thematics, factors, fixed income, liquidity and private assets, all of which we believe represent significant growth opportunities. Lead the enablement of ESG and climate investment integration by delivering the data, information and applications necessary to identify, assess and incorporate material ESG and climate risks and opportunities. MSCI s research, tools and solutions will aim to provide the transparency our clients need to better integrate ESG and climate risks and opportunities into their investment processes. Our ESG ratings and climate data and research are also utilized in our index, analytics and private asset tools and solutions from ESG and climate indexes to incorporation of ESG and climate data in risk analysis to climate and emissions assessments specific to real estate assets and private equity portfolios. We are focused on being an influential thought leader on these considerations for the investment industry. Enhance distribution and content-enabling technology. We are deploying and developing advanced technology to drive integration and efficiencies, accelerate the pace of innovation and enhance distribution and the client experience. We increasingly utilize proprietary and third-party technologies, including AI, to enhance our ability to gather and analyze data, create content and automate and enhance the efficiency of many of our data processes. Our open-architecture Investment Solutions as a Service ( ISaaS ) offerings include MSCI ONE, an integrated platform that provides access to investment content across a number of our products and solutions. These offerings help us deliver MSCI content and solutions to our clients at scale. Expand solutions that empower client customization . We aim to further enhance how we support our clients investment objectives by embedding our highly differentiated research, data and methodologies into solutions that allow clients to incorporate their custom preferences. For example, we will leverage existing capabilities and applications to deliver solutions that will allow clients to reflect their unique risk and return, ESG and climate and thematic preferences, as well as tax optimization strategies in a scalable way. In addition, we aim to meet client demand for flexible tools and data needed to construct and manage portfolios. Strengthen client relationships and grow into strategic partnerships with clients. We aim to be a strategic partner to members of the investment community by anticipating their needs, promoting the full breadth of our tools, data and solutions, and building a seamless experience across our offerings. The depth of knowledge of our client coverage team, including dedicated account managers, ensures that we are engaging with our clients in a holistic and integrated manner. In particular, we are leveraging our existing offerings to serve new and developing client use cases. Through innovation, we aim to enhance the effectiveness and ease of use of our products as we further demonstrate the value of our content, applications and services. Execute strategic relationships and acquisitions with complementary data, content and technology companies. We regularly evaluate and selectively pursue strategic relationships with, and acquisitions of, providers of unique and differentiated data, content, products and technologies that we believe have the potential to complement, enhance or expand our offerings and client base. In order to drive value, we target acquisitions and strategic relationships that can be efficiently integrated into our existing operational structure and global sales network. For example, we recently completed the acquisition of The Burgiss Group, LLC ( Burgiss ), a global provider of investment decision support tools relating to private capital. The acquisition provides us with comprehensive data and deep expertise in private assets, enabling investors to evaluate fundamental information, measure and compare performance, understand exposures, manage risk and conduct robust analytics. Financial Model We have an attractive financial model due to our recurring revenue and strong cash generation. Clients purchase our products and services primarily through recurring fixed and variable fee arrangements, a business model which has historically delivered stable revenue and predictable cash flows. Finally, our disciplined capital-allocation policy provides us with flexibility to balance internal resources and investment needs, acquisitions and shareholder returns through dividends and opportunistic share repurchases. See Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 1, Introduction and Basis of Presentation Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for information on how we generate revenue and our revenue recognition policy. Segments For the year ended December 31, 2023, we had the following five operating segments: Index, Analytics, ESG and Climate, Real Assets and Private Capital Solutions, which are presented as the following four reportable segments: Index, Analytics, ESG and Climate, and All Other Private Assets . For reporting purposes, the Real Assets and Private Capital Solutions operating segments are 4 Table of Contents combined and presented as All Other Private Assets, as they did not meet the thresholds for separate presentation. On October 2, 2023, the Company acquired the remaining 66.4% interest in Burgiss. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we renamed the Burgiss operating segment to Private Capital Solutions. Prior to the acquisition, the Private Capital Solutions operating segment represented the Company s 33.6% equity method investment in Burgiss. Following the acquisition, Burgiss consolidated results are included in the Private Capital Solutions operating segment. See Note 5, Acquisitions, and Note 13, Segment Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for additional information on the acquisition of Burgiss. Index Clients use our indexes in many areas of the investment process, including for developing indexed financial products ( e.g. , ETFs, mutual funds, annuities, futures, options, structured products, over-the-counter derivatives), performance benchmarking, portfolio construction and rebalancing, and asset allocation. We currently calculate more than 290,000 2 end-of-day indexes daily and more than 16,000 indexes in real time. Clients access our index data directly from MSCI or from third-party vendors worldwide. Our index product offerings include: MSCI Global Equity Indexes. MSCI Global Equity Indexes are designed to measure returns across a wide variety of equity markets, size segments, sectors and industries. As of December 31, 2023, we calculated indexes that covered more than 80 developed, emerging, frontier and standalone equity markets, as well as various regional indexes built from the component indexes. ESG and Climate Indexes. ESG and Climate Indexes are constructed from an underlying index by applying data from our ESG and Climate segment to additional screening or other criteria. Factor Indexes. Factor Indexes seek to reflect the performance characteristics of a range of investment styles and strategies, such as momentum or value. These indexes include stocks that demonstrate high exposure to the target factor. In addition to single factor indexes, we offer multiple-factor indexes for investors with diversified multi-factor strategies. Thematic Indexes. Thematic Indexes are designed to measure the performance of companies associated with shifts in macroeconomic, geopolitical and technological trends. These indexes can target areas of interest under megatrend categories such as the environment, healthcare and lifestyle. Examples of our Thematic Indexes include digital economy, efficient energy, genomic innovation and smart cities. Client-Designed Indexes. Client-Designed Indexes are calculated by applying additional criteria supplied by a client such as stock exclusion lists, currency hedging rules, tax rates or special weighting to an MSCI index. Investors with unique index requirements can build an index to meet their specific needs and better update index design over time to support their evolving investment strategies. Fixed Income Indexes . Fixed Income Indexes include both investment grade and high-yield securities across a number of currencies that reflect the performance of credit markets generally, or specific investment strategies, including climate-focused or factor strategies. Real Assets Indexes . Real Assets Indexes provide transparency and insight into real asset strategies, including performance of portfolios across private real estate investments, REITs and others. Our Private Real Assets Index products are reported under our All Other Private Assets reportable segment. In 2023, we launched a number of new indexes and data products, including the following: MSCI Float Data Product. The MSCI Float Data Product is a new offering created to provide additional transparency related to free float market capitalization at a security level. The MSCI Float Data Product offers greater visibility into a security s investability metrics. This extensive data set includes all securities within the MSCI equity universe and is updated on a monthly basis. MSCI Biotech Advance Indexes. Part of our suite of MSCI Life Sciences Indexes, the MSCI Biotech Advance Indexes aim to measure the performance of a set of companies that are associated with research, development and commercialization of products for treating a broad range of diseases and disorders. MSCI MarketAxess Tradable Corporate Bond Indexes. The MSCI MarketAxess Tradable Corporate Bond Indexes incorporate MarketAxess liquidity data and make use of the MarketAxess Relative Liquidity Score to capture more liquid fixed income securities. 2 The number of indexes includes different return versions (e.g., price, net and gross returns) but does not include different currency versions. 5 Table of Contents MSCI Global Thematic Rotation Index. The MSCI Global Thematic Rotation Index aims to represent the performance of the highest-ranked thematic megatrends, selected from a larger subset and rotated regularly based on media sentiment tied to MediaStats Megatrend Scores. MSCI Climate Action Corporate Bond Indexes . The MSCI Climate Action Corporate Bond Indexes are designed to measure the performance of the fixed-income securities of companies that have been assessed to have favorable characteristics relating to climate transition actions relative to sector peers. Our Index segment also includes revenues from licenses of GICS and GICS Direct , the global industry classification standard jointly developed and maintained by MSCI and S P Dow Jones Indices, a division of S P Global Inc. This classification system was developed in response to investors need for a comprehensive and consistent framework for classifying companies into industries. GICS is widely accepted as an industry analysis framework for investment research, portfolio management and asset allocation. GICS Direct is a dataset comprised of active companies and securities classified by sector, industry group, industry and sub-industry in accordance with the proprietary GICS methodology. The MSCI Sector Indexes are comprised of GICS sector, industry group, and industry indexes across countries and regions in Developed, Emerging and select Frontier markets. For the year ended December 31, 2023, 57.4% of our revenues were attributable to our Index segment. A majority of those revenues were attributable to annual, recurring subscriptions. A portion of our revenues comes from clients who use our indexes as the basis for indexed investment products. Such fees are primarily based on a client s assets under management ( AUM ) or trading volumes and are referred to herein as asset-based fees. Since market movement and investment trends impact our asset-based fees, our revenues from asset-based fees are subject to volatility. For the year ended December 31, 2023, asset-based fees accounted for 38.4% of the total revenues for our Index segment. Analytics Our Analytics segment offers risk management, performance attribution and portfolio management content, applications and services that provide clients with an integrated view of risk and return and tools for analyzing market, credit, liquidity, counterparty and climate risk across all major asset classes, spanning short-, medium- and long-term time horizons. Our offerings also support clients various regulatory reporting needs. Our Analytics tools and capabilities include the following: models to support factor-based analytics ( e.g. , Barra equity models and fixed income and multi-asset class ( MAC ) models), pricing models and single security analytics, time series-based analytics, stress testing, performance attribution, portfolio optimization and liquidity risk analytics, as well as underlying inputs such as interest rate and credit curves. We continue to develop new and improved tools and capabilities in response to the evolving needs of our clients. In addition, our analytics capabilities are helping to fuel growth in key areas across our business, such as our factor indexes and many of our climate risk and reporting offerings. Our clients access our Analytics tools and content through our proprietary applications and application programming interfaces ( APIs ), third-party applications or directly through their own platforms. Our Analytics solutions provide clients with tools to construct and manage portfolios, including integrated market data from multiple third parties as well as content from MSCI s other segments, which significantly reduces the operational burden on clients to independently source this information and populate it in our Analytics products. Our key Analytics products include: RiskMetrics RiskManager . RiskMetrics RiskManager provides risk analytics across a broad range of publicly traded instruments and private assets. Clients use RiskManager for daily analysis, including: Value-at-Risk ( VaR ) simulation; measuring and monitoring market and liquidity risk at position, fund and firm levels; sensitivity analysis and stress testing; interactive what-if analysis; counterparty credit exposure; and regulatory risk reporting. BarraOne . Powered by our MAC Barra factor model, BarraOne provides clients with MAC risk and performance analytics. BarraOne allows clients to build equity, fixed income, and MAC portfolios with specific risk, ESG and climate exposures. Barra Portfolio Manager. Barra Portfolio Manager is an integrated risk, performance and portfolio-construction interactive platform with a flexible user interface that enables our clients to design investment strategies and build portfolios, and to share analytics and reports across their organizations. It is used by equity fund managers and their teams to gain additional portfolio insight and manage their investment processes more systematically. RiskMetrics WealthBench and RiskMetrics CreditManager . RiskMetrics WealthBench is a web-based platform used by private banks, financial advisers, brokerages and trust companies to help wealth managers assess portfolio risk, construct asset allocation policies and create comprehensive client proposals. RiskMetrics CreditManager is a portfolio credit risk management system used primarily by banks to quantify portfolio credit risk by capturing market exposure, rating changes and default risk. 6 Table of Contents Climate Lab Enterprise . Powered by MSCI s climate data integrated with MSCI s enterprise analytics infrastructure, Climate Lab Enterprise enables our clients to measure, manage and monitor net-zero commitments and climate exposure and risks. Climate Lab Enterprise is able to aggregate climate data across multiple portfolios and asset classes, providing clients the ability to understand alignment with their climate goals from the enterprise level down through portfolios to individual positions and issuers. Insights . Our Insights offering calculates, stores and delivers a broad range of risk, performance, climate and sustainability measur