Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 97 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 97 Item 9B. Other Information 98 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdiction that Prevent Inspections 98 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 99 Item 11. Executive Compensation 99 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 99 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 100 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 100 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 101 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117 Except as the context otherwise indicates, the terms MSCI, the Company, we, our and us refer to MSCI Inc. together with its subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us, as well as those owned by others. MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics, IPD, Real Capital Analytics, Datscha and other MSCI brands and product names are the trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks of MSCI, its subsidiaries or licensors in the United States and other jurisdictions. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and from time to time may make in our public filings, press releases or other public statements, certain statements that constitute forward-looking statements. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and represent only MSCI s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as may, could, expect, intend, plan, seek, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Statements concerning our financial position, business strategy and plans or objectives for future operations are forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are, in some cases, beyond our control and that could materially affect our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or for any other reason. Therefore, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). 1 PART I Item 1. Business Mission MSCI s mission is to enable investors to build better portfolios for a better world. Overview We are a leading provider of critical decision support tools and solutions for the global investment community. Our mission-critical offerings help investors address the challenges of a transforming investment landscape and power better investment decisions. Leveraging our knowledge of the global investment process and our expertise in research, data and technology, we enable our clients to understand and analyze key drivers of risk and return and confidently and efficiently build more effective portfolios. Investors all over the world use our research-driven and technology-enabled tools and solutions to gain insights and improve transparency throughout their investment processes. Our tools and solutions help investors define their investment universe inform and analyze their asset allocation and portfolio construction decisions measure and manage portfolio performance and risk implement sustainable, climate-focused and other investment strategies conduct performance attribution construct and manage exchange traded funds ( ETFs ) and other indexed financial products and facilitate reporting to stakeholders. Our products and services include indexes portfolio construction and risk management tools environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) and climate solutions and real estate market and transaction data and analysis. We are increasingly focused on open and flexible technology, and our content and capabilities can be accessed by our clients through multiple channels and platforms. We aim to anticipate the needs of the investment industry with our client-centric focus and our deep understanding of our clients workflows, challenges and goals. We are focused on product innovation and data collection to address the evolving needs of an increasingly complex industry. In order to most effectively serve our clients, we are committed to advancing an integrated approach to our offerings, achieving service excellence, enhancing our differentiated research and content, and delivering flexible, cutting-edge technology. Clients Our clients comprise a wide spectrum of the global investment industry and include the following key client types: Asset owners (including pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, sovereign wealth funds, family offices and insurance companies) Asset managers (including managers of institutional funds and accounts, mutual funds, hedge funds, ETFs, insurance products, private banking products and real estate investment trusts) Financial intermediaries (including banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians, trust companies, fund administrators and investment consultants) Wealth managers (including robo-advisors and self-directed brokerages) Real Estate Professionals (including real estate brokers, agents, developers, lenders and appraisers) Corporates (including public and private companies and their advisors) As of December 31, 2021, we served over 6,300 clients 1 in more than 95 countries. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our largest client organization by revenue, BlackRock, accounted for 12.7% of our total revenues, with 93.6% of the revenue from BlackRock coming from fees based on the assets in BlackRock s ETFs that are based on our indexes. 1 Represents the aggregate of all related clients under their respective parent entity. As of December 31, 2021, we served over 1,600 clients which were related to RCA (as defined below). 2 Industry Trends and Competitive Advantages We believe we are uniquely positioned to benefit from emerging trends and to help our clients adapt to a large and rapidly expanding and evolving investment industry. Investing has grown in complexity, with more choices across asset classes, security types and geographies, and more consideration of a wider array of risks, including those related to ESG and climate. In addition, the construction and management of investment portfolios are becoming increasingly outcome-oriented, rules-based and technology-driven. As a result, the investment process is transforming, reflected in several trends we have observed, including: Changing client operating models and business strategies, driven in part by fee compression, changing demographics, the regulatory environment and shifting economic outlooks Increasing use of global, multi-asset-class and other complex investment strategies, including strategies incorporating private asset investments and factor objectives, as investors seek specific and unique outcomes Accelerating integration of ESG and climate considerations into investment processes, reporting and products, as sustainable investing becomes more prominent and investors increasingly focus on companies with strong sustainability practices as an indicator of long-term resilience, as seen in the current investment focus on considerations such as the COVID-19 pandemic, extreme weather events and diversity and inclusion initiatives Continuing growth of indexed investing through indexed investment products such as ETFs, mutual/UCITS funds and annuities, as well as indexed derivatives such as futures, options, structured products and over-the-counter swaps, and other vehicles that seek to track an index as investors increasingly seek lower-cost investment strategies Increasing allocation of capital to real estate and other private assets and desire for greater transparency into the performance of private assets, with an increased focus on climate and income risk Increasing demand for data and tools that clients can integrate to support their unique portfolio construction needs and to provide transparency into their investment objectives and Growing use of advanced technologies to enhance investment analytics, streamline operations, create efficiencies and gain competitive advantages. We believe the following competitive advantages position us well to meet client demands in light of these trends: Differentiated research-enhanced content provides our clients with insights to better understand and adapt to a complex and fast-changing marketplace. We are continually developing a wide range of differentiated content and have amassed an extensive database of historical global market data, proprietary equity index data, ESG and climate data, factor models, private assets benchmark data and risk algorithms, all of which can be critical components of our clients investment processes. This content is grounded in our deep knowledge of the global investment process and fueled by experienced research and product development and data management teams. Client-centricity allows us to build strong client relationships globally and better understand and service our clients unique needs in the markets in which they operate. Our client coverage team develops and maintains strong and trusted relationships with senior executives and investment professionals, and we regularly consult with clients and other market participants to discuss their needs, investment trends and implications for our research, product development and client servicing goals. Strong product innovation, supported by flexible, scalable, cutting-edge technology developed by our global team of sophisticated technology and data professionals, enables clients to use MSCI, third-party and their proprietary content efficiently and cost-effectively. Our commitment to open and flexible technology allows us to continually improve our overall products and services by more efficiently processing data for distribution and ensuring advanced platform flexibility that provides for easy integration into our clients workflows. 3 Strategy We provide critical tools and solutions that enable investors to manage the transformations taking place in the investment industry, better understand performance and risk, and build portfolios more effectively and efficiently to achieve their investment objectives. We are focused on the following key initiatives to deliver actionable and integrated client solutions: Extend leadership in research-enhanced content across asset classes. We continue to develop and deliver innovative solutions that incorporate proprietary and highly differentiated content based on rich insights from our research and product development teams. In addition to continuing to enhance our position as a leader with respect to tools and solutions for equity investors globally, our strategic priorities also include content for ESG and climate, thematics, factors, fixed income, liquidity and private assets, all of which we believe represent significant growth opportunities. For example, in September 2021, we completed our acquisition of Real Capital Analytics, Inc. ( RCA ), a provider of data and analytics for the properties and transactions that drive the global commercial real estate capital markets. This transaction significantly expanded our data capabilities with respect to private assets. Lead the enablement of ESG and climate investment integration by delivering the data, information and applications necessary to identify, assess and incorporate material ESG and climate risks and opportunities. The global adoption of ESG and climate-focused investment considerations is rapidly accelerating. As demand from our clients for ESG and climate solutions increases, MSCI s research, tools and solutions will aim to provide the transparency our clients need to better integrate ESG and climate risks and opportunities into their investment processes. Our ESG ratings and climate data and research are also utilized in our index, analytics and private asset tools and solutions from ESG and climate indexes to incorporation of ESG and climate data in risk analysis to climate and emissions assessments specific to real estate assets and private equity portfolios. We are focused on being an influential thought leader on these climate-related considerations for the investment industry. Enhance distribution and content-enabling technology. We are deploying and developing advanced technology to drive integration and efficiencies, accelerate the pace of innovation and enhance distribution and the client experience. We increasingly utilize proprietary and third-party technologies, including artificial intelligence, machine learning and natural language processing tools, to enhance our ability to gather and analyze data, create content and automate and enhance the efficiency of many of our data processes . In 2021, in response to evolving client needs and the changing technology landscape, we launched our new open-architecture Investment Solutions as a Service ( ISaaS ) offerings. These offerings include Climate Lab Enterprise, a first-in-kind visualization dashboard that combines our climate data with our analytical risk and portfolio management capabilities. Expand solutions that empower client customization . We will further enhance how we support our clients investment objectives by embedding our highly differentiated research into solutions that allow clients to incorporate their custom preferences. For example, we will leverage existing capabilities and applications to deliver solutions that will allow clients to reflect their unique risk and return, ESG and climate and thematic preferences, as well as tax optimization strategies in a scalable way. Strengthen client relationships and grow into strategic partnerships with clients. We aim to serve as a strategic partner to members of the investment community by anticipating their needs, by promoting the full breadth of our tools and solutions and by building a seamless experience across our offerings. The depth of knowledge of our client coverage teams, including dedicated account managers, ensures that we are engaging with our clients in a holistic and integrated manner. In particular, we are leveraging our existing offerings to serve new and developing client use cases. Through constant innovation, we enhance the efficiency and ease of use of our products as we further demonstrate the value of our content, applications and services. Execute strategic relationships and acquisitions with complementary content and technology companies. We regularly evaluate and selectively pursue strategic relationships with, and acquisitions of, providers of unique and differentiated content, products and technologies that we believe have the potential to complement, enhance or expand our offerings and client base. In order to drive value, we target acquisitions and strategic relationships that can be efficiently integrated into our existing operational structure and global sales network. For example, through our acquisition of RCA, we expanded MSCI s robust suite of real estate solutions, by allowing us to provide real estate industry professionals with more data, analytics and support tools to manage investments and understand performance and risk, including climate risks, within their portfolios. 4 Financial Model We have an attractive financial model due to our recurring revenue and strong cash generation. Clients purchase our products and services primarily through recurring fixed and variable fee arrangements, a business model which has historically delivered stable revenue and predictable cash flows. Finally, our disciplined capital-allocation policy provides us with flexibility to balance internal resources and investment needs, acquisitions and shareholder returns through dividends and opportunistic share repurchases. See Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 1, Introduction and Basis of Presentation Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for information on how we generate revenue and our revenue recognition policy. Segments For the year ended December 31, 2021, we had the following five operating segments: Index, Analytics, ESG and Climate, Real Estate and The Burgiss Group, LLC ( Burgiss ), which are presented as the following four reportable segments: Index, Analytics, ESG and Climate, and All Other Private Assets. For reporting purposes, the Real Estate and Burgiss operating segments are combined and presented as All Other Private Assets, as they did not meet the thresholds for separate presentation. The Burgiss operating segment represents the Company s equity method investment in Burgiss. Financial results related to MSCI s acquisition of RCA have been included prospectively as a component of the Real Estate operating segment and presented as a component of the All Other Private Assets reportable segment, commencing as of September 13, 2021 (the date we completed the acquisition). Index Clients use our indexes in many areas of the investment process, including for indexed product creation ( e.g. , ETFs, mutual funds, annuities, futures, options, structured products, over-the-counter derivatives), performance benchmarking, portfolio construction and rebalancing, and asset allocation. We currently calculate more than 267,000 2 end-of-day indexes daily and more than 15,000 indexes in real time . Clients receive index data directly from us or from third-party vendors worldwide. Our index product offerings include: MSCI Global Equity Indexes. MSCI Global Equity Indexes are designed to measure returns across a wide variety of equity markets, size segments, sectors and industries. As of December 31, 2021, we calculated indexes that covered more than 80 developed, emerging, frontier and standalone equity markets, as well as various regional indexes built from the component indexes. ESG and Climate Indexes. ESG and Climate Indexes are constructed using data from our ESG and Climate segment to meet the growing demand for indexes that integrate ESG and climate criteria to facilitate sustainable investing strategies. Factor Indexes. Factor Indexes seek to reflect the performance characteristics of a range of investment styles and strategies, such as momentum or value. These indexes include stocks that demonstrate high exposure to the target factor. In addition to single factor indexes, we offer multiple-factor indexes, which aim to support investors with diversified multi-factor strategies. Thematic Indexes. Thematic Indexes are designed to measure the performance of companies affected by shifts in macroeconomic, geopolitical and technological trends. These indexes can target areas of interest under megatrend categories such as the environment, healthcare and lifestyle. Examples of our Thematic Indexes include digital economy, efficient energy, genomic innovation and smart cities. Custom Indexes. Custom Indexes are calculated by applying a client s criteria such as stock exclusion lists, currency hedging rules, tax rates or special weighting to an existing MSCI index. Investors with unique index requirements can build an index to meet their specific needs. 2 The number of indexes includes different return versions ( e.g. , price, net and gross returns) but does not include different currency versions. 5 Fixed Income Indexes . Fixed Income Indexes include both investment grade and high-yield securities across a number of currencies that reflect the performance of credit markets generally, or specific investment strategies, including climate-focused or factor strategies. Real Estate Indexes . Real Estate Indexes provide transparency and insight to private real estate investment strategies. In 2021, we launched a number of new indexes, including the following: MSCI China A 50 Connect Index . The MSCI China A 50 Connect Index is designed to reflect the performance of the 50 largest China A securities across all 11 Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) sectors, with at least two securities included for each sector. MSCI Circular Economy Indexes. The new suite of MSCI Circular Economy Indexes aims to reflect the performance of companies associated with facilitating a circular economy to tackle global resource challenges, including across renewables and energy efficiency, the sharing economy, sustainable water transition, natural resource stewardship and plastics transition. MSCI Space Exploration Index. The MSCI Space Exploration Index aims to measure the performance of a set of companies associated with the development of new products and services such as orbital and sub-orbital spaceflights, satellite communications and urban air mobility . Our Index segment also includes revenues from licenses of GICS and GICS Direct , the global industry classification standard jointly developed and maintained by MSCI and Standard Poor s Financial Services, LLC, a subsidiary of S P Global Inc. This classification system was developed in response to investors need for a comprehensive and consistent framework for classifying companies into industries. GICS is widely accepted as an industry analysis framework for investment research, portfolio management and asset allocation. GICS Direct is a dataset comprised of active companies and securities classified by sector, industry group, industry and sub-industry in accordance with the proprietary GICS methodology. The MSCI Sector Indexes are comprised of GICS sector, industry group, and industry indexes across countries and regions in Developed, Emerging and select Frontier markets. For the year ended December 31, 2021, 61.3% of our revenues were attributable to our Index segment. A majority of those revenues were attributable to annual, recurring subscriptions. A portion of our revenues comes from clients who use our indexes as the basis for indexed investment products. Such fees are primarily based on a client s assets under management ( AUM ) or trading volumes and are referred to herein as asset-based fees. Since market movement and investment trends impact our asset-based fees, our revenues from asset-based fees are subject to volatility. For the year ended December 31, 2021, asset-based fees accounted for 44.3% of the total revenues for our Index segment. Analytics Our Analytics segment offers risk management, performance attribution and portfolio management content, applications and services that provide clients with an integrated view of risk and return and tools for analyzing market, credit, liquidity, counterparty and climate risk across all major asset classes, spanning short-, medium- and long-term time horizons. Our offerings also support clients various regulatory reporting needs. Our Analytics tools and capabilities include the following: models to support factor-based analytics ( e.g. , Barra equity models and fixed income and multi-asset class ( MAC ) models), pricing models and single security analytics, time series-based analytics, stress testing, performance attribution, portfolio optimization and liquidity risk analytics, as well as underlying inputs such as interest rate and credit curves. We continue to develop new and improved tools and capabilities in response to the evolving needs of our clients. In addition, our analytics capabilities are helping to fuel growth in key areas across our business, such as our factor indexes and many of our climate risk and reporting offerings. 6 Our clients access our Analytics tools and content through our proprietary applications and application programming interfaces ( APIs ), third-party applications or directly through their own platforms. Our Analytics solutions provide clients with tools to construct and manage portfolios, including integrated market data from multiple third parties as well as content from MSCI s other segments , which significantly reduces the operational burden on clients to independently source this information and populate it in our Analytics products. Our key Analytics products include: RiskMetrics RiskManager . RiskMetrics RiskManager provides risk analytics across a broad range of publicly traded instruments and private assets. Clients use RiskManager for daily analysis, including: Value-at-Risk ( VaR ) simulation measuring and monitoring market and liquidity risk at position, fund and firm levels sensitivity analysis and stress testing interactive what-if analysis counterparty credit exposure and regulatory risk reporting. BarraOne. Powered by our MAC Barra factor model, BarraOne provides clients with MAC risk and performance analytics. BarraOne allows clients to build equity, fixed income, and MAC portfolios with specific risk, ESG and climate exposures. Barra Portfolio Manager. Barra Portfolio Manager is an integrated risk, performance and portfolio-construction interactive platform with a flexible user interface that enables our clients to design investment strategies and build portfolios, and to share analytics and reports across their organizations. It is used by equity fund managers and their teams to gain additional portfolio insight and manage their investment processes more systematically. RiskMetrics WealthBench and RiskMetrics CreditManager . RiskMetrics WealthBench is a web-based platform used by private banks, financial advisers, brokerages and trust companies to help wealth managers assess portfolio risk, construct asset allocation policies and create comprehensive client proposals. RiskMetrics CreditManager is a portfolio credit risk management system used primarily by banks to quantify portfolio credit risk by capturing market exposure, rating changes and default risk. Climate Lab Enterprise . Powered by MSCI s climate data integrated with MSCI s enterprise analytics infrastructure, Climate Lab Enterprise enables our clients to measure, manage and monitor net-zero commitments and climate exposure and risks. Climate Lab Enterprise is able to aggregate climate data across multiple portfolios and asset classes, providing clients the ability to understand alignment with their climate goals from the enterprise level down through portfolios to individual positions and issuers. Our Analytics segment also provides various managed services to help clients operate more efficiently, including consolidation of client portfolio data from various sources, review and reconciliation of input data and results, and customized reporting. In addition, our RiskMetrics HedgePlatform service allows clients such as funds of funds, pension funds and endowments who invest in hedge funds to measure, evaluate and monitor the risk of their hedge fund investments across multiple hedge fund strategies. For the year ended December 31, 2021, 26.6% of our revenues were attributable to our Analytics segment. ESG and Climate The ESG and Climate segment 3 offers products and services that help institutional investors understand how ESG and climate considerations can impact the long-term risk and return of their portfolio and individual security-level investments. We provide data, ratings, research and tools to help investors navigate increasing regulation, meet new client demands and better integrate ESG and climate elements into their investment processes. 3 Products and services in our ESG and Climate segment are provided by MSCI ESG Research LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of MSCI Inc. that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as an Investment Adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. MSCI ESG Ratings are used as an input in the construction and calculation of MSCI ESG indexes, which are not subject to our SEC registration. MSCI indexes are products of MSCI Inc., and MSCI Limited is the benchmark administrator. 7 Our ESG and Climate research team analyzes over 9,800 4 entities worldwide, and we will continue to expand and deepen our coverage to help investors and others in their asset allocation, portfolio construction and risk management processes. Clients include global asset managers, leading asset owners, consultants, advisers, corporates and academics. Our ESG and Climate offerings include: MSCI ESG Ratings . Our ESG ratings aim to measure a company s resilience to long-term ESG risks. Companies are scored on an industry-relative scale across the most relevant key ESG issues based on a company's business model. MSCI ESG ratings include ratings of equity issuers and fixed income securities. The MSCI ESG Industry Materiality Map is a public tool that explores the key E