Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Executive Officers of the Registrant 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B. Other Information 49 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 50 Item 11. Executive Compensation 51 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 51 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 51 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 52 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 52 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 52 SIGNATURES E- 3 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS DISCLAIMER You should not rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. Our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, could, would, should, expect, plan, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue. We make forward-looking statements about future events or our future financial performance, including earnings and sales growth, earnings per share, strategic plans and contingency plans, growth opportunities or economic downturns, our ability to respond to changes in market conditions, planned research and development efforts and product introductions, adequacy of facilities, access to and the costs of raw materials, shipping and supplier costs, gross margins, customer demand, our competitive position, pricing, capital expenditures, cash flow, tax-related matters, the impact of foreign currencies, compliance with laws, and effects of acquisitions. Our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. New risks also periodically arise. Please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking statements. See in particular Factors Affecting Our Future Operating Results and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business We are a leading global supplier of precision instruments and services. We have strong leadership positions in all of our businesses and believe we hold global number-one market positions in most of them. We are recognized as an innovation leader and our solutions are critical in key research and development, quality control, and manufacturing processes for customers in a wide range of industries including life sciences, food, and chemicals. Our sales and service network is one of the most extensive in the industry. Our products are sold in more than 140 countries and we have a direct presence in approximately 40 countries. With proven growth strategies and a focus on execution, we have achieved a long-term track record of strong financial performance. Our business is geographically diversified, with net sales in 2019 derived 30% from Europe, 39% from North and South America, and 31% from Asia and other countries. Our customer base is also diversified by industry and by individual customer. Mettler-Toledo International Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1991 and became a publicly traded company with its initial public offering in 1997. Business Segments We have five reportable segments: U.S. Operations, Swiss Operations, Western European Operations, Chinese Operations, and Other. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements and Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Results of Operations by Reportable Segment for detailed results by segment and geographic region. We manufacture a wide variety of precision instruments and provide value-added services to our customers. Our principal products and services are described below. We also describe our customers and distribution, sales and service, research and development, manufacturing, and certain other matters. These descriptions apply to substantially all of our products and related reportable segments. Laboratory Instruments We make a wide variety of precision laboratory instruments for sample preparation, synthesis, analytical bench top, material characterization, and in-line measurement. Our portfolio includes laboratory balances, liquid pipetting solutions, automated laboratory reactors including real-time analytics, titrators, pH meters, process analytics sensors and analyzer technology, physical value analyzers (including density and refractometry instruments), thermal analysis systems, and other analytical instruments, such as UV/VIS spectrophotometers, and moisture analyzers. Our laboratory instruments have leading-edge embedded software and we also offer LabX, our PC-based laboratory software platform, to manage and analyze data generated from our instruments. The laboratory instruments and related service business accounted for approximately 52% of our net sales in 2019 , 51% in 2018 , and 50% in 2017 . Laboratory Balances Our laboratory balances have weighing ranges from one ten-millionth of a gram up to 64 kilograms. To respond to a wide range of customer needs and value/price points, we market our balances in a range of product tiers offering different levels of functionality. We also provide filter weighing and powder and liquid dosing automated systems. Based on the same weighing technology platform, we manufacture mass comparators, which are used by weights and measures officials as well as National Measurement Institute laboratories to ensure the accuracy of reference weights. Laboratory balances are primarily used in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, testing labs, food, chemical, cosmetics, academia, and other industries. 4 Table of Contents Pipettes Pipettes are used in life science research laboratories for dispensing small volumes of liquids. We develop, manufacture, and distribute advanced pipettes, including single- and multi-channel manual and electronic pipettes. We also develop and produce high-value consumables such as pipette tips and tubes. We maintain service centers in the key markets where customers periodically send their pipettes for certified recalibrations. These service centers, combined with our advanced asset management solutions, provide our customers with innovative solutions to maintain their instruments and meet regulatory compliance. Our principal end markets are pharmaceutical, biotech, and academia. Analytical Instruments Titrators measure the chemical composition of samples and are used in environmental and research laboratories as well as in quality control labs in the pharmaceutical, testing labs, food and beverage, and other industries. Our high-end titrators are multi-tasking models, which can perform two determinations simultaneously on multiple vessels. Our offering includes robotics to automate routine work in quality control applications. Thermal analysis systems measure material properties as a function of temperature, such as weight, dimension, energy flow, and viscoelastic properties. Thermal analysis systems are used in nearly every industry, but primarily in the plastics and polymer industries, academia, and increasingly in the pharmaceutical industry. pH meters measure acidity in laboratory samples. We also manufacture and sell density and refractometry instruments, which measure chemical concentrations in solutions. In addition, we manufacture and sell moisture analyzers, which precisely determine the moisture content of a sample by utilizing the loss on drying method, and UV/VIS spectrophotometers that optimize spectroscopic workflows. Laboratory Software LabX, our PC-based laboratory software platform, manages and analyzes data generated by our balances, titrators, pH meters, physical value analyzers, and other analytical instruments like UV/VIS spectrophotometers. LabX provides full network capability; assists with workflow automation; has efficient, intuitive protocols; and enables customers to collect and archive data in compliance with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration s traceability and data integrity requirements for electronically stored data (also known as 21 CFR Part 11). Automated Chemistry Solutions Our automated chemistry solutions focus on selected applications in the chemical and drug discovery process. Our automated lab reactors and in situ analysis systems are considered integral to the process development and scale-up activities of our customers. Our on-line measurement technologies, based on infrared and laser light scattering, enable customers to monitor chemical reactions and crystallization processes in real time in the lab and plant. In situ samples allow overnight sampling and testing. Additionally, we provide industry-leading embedded software solutions that enable our customers to manage, optimize, and improve experiments as well as production scale-up. We believe that our portfolio of integrated technologies can bring significant efficiencies to the development process, enabling our customers to bring new chemicals and drugs to market faster. Process Analytics Our process analytics business provides instruments for the in-line measurement of liquid and gas parameters used primarily in the production process of pharmaceutical, biotech, beverage, microelectronics, chemical, and refining companies, as well as power plants. Close to half of our process 5 Table of Contents analytics sales are to the pharmaceutical and biotech markets, where our customers need fast and secure scale-up and production that meet the validation processes required for GMP (Good Manufacturing Processes) and other regulatory standards like the USP (US Pharmacopoeia) regulations for ultrapure water quality. We are a leading solution provider for liquid analytical measurement to control and optimize production processes. Our solutions include sensor and analyzer technology for measuring pH, dissolved oxygen, carbon dioxide, conductivity, turbidity, ozone, total organic carbons, bioburden, sodium, and silica, as well as laser analyzers for gas measurement. Intelligent sensor diagnostics capabilities enable improved asset management solutions for our customers to reduce process downtime and maintenance costs. Our instruments offer leading multi-parameter capabilities and plant-wide control system integration, which are key for integrated measurement of multiple parameters to secure production quality and efficiency. With a worldwide network of specialists, we support customers in critical process applications, compliance, and systems integration questions. Industrial Instruments We manufacture numerous industrial weighing instruments and related terminals and offer dedicated software solutions for the pharmaceutical, chemical, food, discrete manufacturing, and other industries. In addition, we manufacture metal detection, x-ray, and other end-of-line product inspection systems used in production and packaging. We supply automatic identification and data capture solutions, which integrate in-motion weighing, dimensioning, and identification technologies for transport, shipping, and logistics customers. We also offer heavy industrial scales and related software. The industrial instruments and related service business accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales in 2019 and 2018 and 42% in 2017 . Industrial Weighing Instruments We offer a comprehensive line of industrial scales and weighing devices, such as bench scales, floor scales, and weigh modules for weighing loads from a few grams to several thousand kilograms in applications ranging from measuring materials in chemical production to quality completeness control in discrete manufacturing to weighing packages at the end of the line. Our products are used in a wide range of industrial applications, such as counting, formulating and mixing ingredients, and quality control. Industrial Terminals Our industrial scale terminals collect data and integrate it into manufacturing processes, helping to automate them. Our terminals allow users to remotely download formulation recipes or access setup data and can minimize downtime through predictive rather than reactive maintenance. Transportation and Logistics We supply automatic dimensional measurement and data capture solutions, which integrate in-motion weighing, dimensioning, and identification technologies. With these solutions, customers can measure the weight and cubic volume of packages for appropriate billing, load management, and quality control. Our solutions also integrate into customers information systems. Vehicle Scale Systems Our primary heavy industrial products are scales for weighing trucks or railcars (i.e., weighing bulk goods as they enter or leave a factory or at a toll station). Heavy industrial scales are capable of measuring weights up to 500 tons and permit accurate weighing under extreme environmental conditions. We also offer advanced computer software that can be used with our heavy industrial scales to facilitate a broad range of customer solutions and provides a complete system for managing vehicle transaction processing. 6 Table of Contents Industrial Software We offer software that can be used with our industrial instruments. Examples include FreeWeigh.Net, statistical quality control software; FormWeigh.Net, our formulation/batching software; and DataBridge, which supports the operation of vehicle scales. FreeWeigh.Net and FormWeigh.Net provide full network capability and enable customers to collect and archive data in compliance with U.S. Food and Drug Administration's requirements, 21 CFR Part 11. Product Inspection Increasing safety and consumer protection requirements are driving the need for more sophisticated end-of-line product inspection systems (e.g., for use in food processing and packaging, pharmaceutical, packaged consumer goods, and other industries). We are a leading global provider of metal detectors, x-ray and camera-based imaging equipment, checkweighers, and track-and-trace solutions that are used in these industries. Metal detectors are most commonly used to detect fine particles of metal that may be contained in raw materials or may be generated by the manufacturing process itself. X-ray inspection is used to detect metallic contamination in applications unsuited to metal detectors and many types of non-metallic contamination, such as glass, calcified bone, stones, and pits. Our x-ray systems are also used for mass control and for determining and controlling the fat content in meat. Our camera-based vision inspection solutions provide in-line inspection of package quality, labels, and content, which are needs for food and beverage, consumer goods, and pharmaceutical companies. Vision inspection systems with associated specialist software enable our pharmaceutical customers to implement traceability and serialization tracking, as required by regulation. Checkweighers are used to control the filled weight of packaged goods such as food, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics. All of our technologies are integrated with material handling systems to ensure the correct presentation of the customer s product to the device and the secure rejection of non-conforming product, and are frequently designed to comply with stringent hygiene standards. Our technologies may also be used together as components of integrated packaging lines. ProdX Inspect is our quality and productivity control software for helping customers comply with regulations and optimize process efficiency, either as a stand-alone solution or through integration with the customer s manufacturing and enterprise systems. Retail Weighing Solutions Supermarkets, hypermarkets, and other food retail businesses make use of multiple weighing and food labeling solutions for handling fresh goods (such as meats, vegetables, fruits, or cheeses). We offer networked scales and software, which can integrate backroom, counter, self-service, and checkout functions and can incorporate fresh goods item data into a supermarket s overall food item and inventory management system. The scale screen display allows for in-store marketing and can help encourage consumers in the store to make more purchase decisions at the point of sale. In addition, we offer stand-alone scales for basic counter weighing and pricing, price finding, and printing. The customer benefits of our retail solutions are in the areas of enterprise-wide article and price management, merchandising, and regulatory compliance. In North America and select other markets, our offering also includes automated packaging and labeling solutions for the meat backroom, which are fully integrated with the scales in the store. The retail business accounted for approximately 7% of our net sales in 2019 and 8% in 2018 and 2017 . Customers and Distribution Our principal customers include companies in the following key end markets: the life science industry (pharmaceutical and biotech companies, as well as independent research organizations); food and beverage producers; chemical, specialty chemicals, and cosmetics companies; food retailers; the 7 Table of Contents transportation and logistics industry; the metals industry; the electronics industry; and the academic community. Our products are sold through a variety of distribution channels. Generally, more technically sophisticated products are sold through our direct sales force, while less complicated products are sold through indirect channels. Our sales through direct channels exceed our sales through indirect channels. A significant portion of our sales in the Americas is generated through indirect channels, including sales of our Ohaus-branded products. Ohaus-branded products target markets, such as the educational market, in which customers are interested in lower cost, a more limited set of features, and less comprehensive support and service. We have a diversified customer base, with no single end-customer accounting for more than 1% of 2019 net sales. Sales and Service Market Organizations We maintain geographically-focused market organizations around the world that are responsible for all aspects of our sales and service. The market organizations are customer-focused, with an emphasis on building and maintaining value-added relationships with customers in our target market segments. Each market organization has the ability to leverage best practices from other units while maintaining the flexibility to adapt its marketing and service efforts to account for different cultural and economic conditions. Market organizations also work closely with our producing organizations (described below) by providing feedback on manufacturing and product development initiatives, new product and application ideas, and information about key market segments. We have one of the largest and broadest global sales and service organizations among precision instrument manufacturers we compete against. At December 31, 2019 , our sales and service group consisted of approximately 8,150 employees in sales, marketing and customer service (including related administration), and post-sales technical service, located in approximately 40 countries. This field organization has the capability to provide service and support to our customers and distributors in major markets across the globe. This is important because our customers increasingly seek to do business with a consistent global approach. Service Our service business continues to be successful with a focus on providing uptime and calibration services, as well as further expansion of our offerings to provide value-added services for a range of market needs, including regulatory compliance, performance enhancements, application expertise and training, and remote services. We have a unique offering to our pharmaceutical customers in promoting the use of our instruments in compliance with FDA and other international regulations, and we can provide these services to most customers' locations around the world. Our global service network is also an important factor in our ability to expand in emerging markets. We estimate that we have the largest installed base of weighing instruments in the world. Service (representing service contracts, on demand services, and replacement parts) accounted for approximately 22% of our net sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017. Beyond revenue opportunities, we believe service is a key part of our solution offering and helps significantly in customer retention. The close relationships and frequent contact with our large customer base allow us to be the trusted advisor of our customers, which provides us with high-quality sales opportunities as well as innovative product and application ideas. 8 Table of Contents Research and Development and Manufacturing Producing Organizations Our research, product development, and manufacturing efforts are organized into a number of producing organizations. Our focused producing organizations help reduce product development time and costs, improve customer focus, and maintain technological leadership. The producing organizations work together to share ideas and best practices, and there is a close interface and coordinated customer interaction among marketing organizations and producing organizations. We also have regional logistics hubs to satisfy customer delivery requirements while optimizing our logistic processes. Research and Development We continue to invest in product innovation to provide technologically advanced products to our customers for existing and new applications. Over the last three years, we have invested $413 million in research and development ( $144 million in 2019 , $141 million in 2018 , and $128 million in 2017 ), which is approximately 5% of net sales for each year. Our research and development efforts fall into two categories: technology advancements, which generate new products or features and increase the value of our products. These advancements may be in the form of enhanced or new functionality, new applications for our technologies, more accurate or reliable measurement, additional software capability, or automation through robotics or other means. cost reductions, which reduce the manufacturing cost of our products through better overall design and/or improve the ease of serviceability. We devote a substantial proportion of our research and development budget to software development. This includes software to process the signals captured by the sensors of our instruments, application-specific software, and software that connects our solutions into customers existing IT systems. We closely integrate research and development with marketing, manufacturing, and product engineering. We have approximately 1,300 employees in research and development and product engineering in countries around the globe. Manufacturing We are a worldwide manufacturer, with facilities principally located in China, Switzerland, the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Mexico. We emphasize product quality in our manufacturing operations, and most of our products require very strict tolerances and exact specifications. We use an extensive quality control system that is integrated into each step of the manufacturing process. All major manufacturing facilities have achieved ISO 9001 certification. We believe that our manufacturing capacity is sufficient to meet our present and currently anticipated demand. We expect to make net investments in new manufacturing facilities of approximately $15 million to $20 million in 2020. We generally manufacture critical components, which are components that contain proprietary technology. When outside manufacturing is more efficient, we contract with other manufacturers for certain nonproprietary components. We use a wide range of suppliers. We believe our supply arrangements are adequate and that there are no material constraints on the sources and availability of materials. From time to time, we may rely on a single supplier for all of our requirements of a particular component. Supply arrangements for electronic components are generally made globally. 9 Table of Contents Backlog; Seasonality Our manufacturing turnaround time is generally short, which permits us to manufacture orders to fill for most of our products. Backlog is generally a function of requested customer delivery dates and is typically no longer than one to two months. Our business has historically experienced a slight amount of seasonal variation, particularly the high-end laboratory instruments business. Traditionally, sales in the first quarter are slightly lower than, and sales in the fourth quarter are slightly higher than, sales in the second and third quarters. Fourth quarter sales have historically generated approximately 28% to 30% of our net sales. This trend has a somewhat greater effect on income from operations than on net sales because fixed costs are generally incurred evenly across all quarters. Employees Our total global workforce was 16,200 , including 14,850 employees and 1,350 temporary personnel, as of December 31, 2019 , and includes approximately 6,000 in Europe, 4,700 in North and South America, and 5,500 in Asia and other countries. We believe our employee relations are good, and we have not suffered any material employee work stoppage or strike during the last five years. Approximately 7,200 employees are represented by collective bargaining or another arrangement organized to represent employee interests. Sustainability Sustainability touches all aspects of our business, from designing, sourcing, and producing our products, to selling and delivering them to our customers, to handling them at the end of their lifecycle. A sustainable mindset helps guide us to make the right decisions for our customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders, and the communities in which we operate our business. We want to manage our business sustainably to position the Company for long-term growth. We designed our GreenMT program to pursue environmental, social, and governance priorities where we can have a significant impact. We do this in five key areas: (1) keeping our operations sustainable over the long-term by ensuring we use resources efficiently, (2) helping our customers to be sustainable in their businesses by offering green products and services, (3) promoting responsible practices within our supply chain, (4) ensuring an engaged workforce through fair, attractive, safe, and development-minded workplaces, and (5) following corporate governance best practices. We have set a number of goals relating to our GreenMT sustainability program, including reducing our carbon footprint and other environmental, social, and governance goals. We report annually on our progress in our Corporate Responsibility Report, available on www.mt.com/sustainability. Blue Ocean Program Blue Ocean refers to our program to establish a global operating model with standardized, automated, and integrated processes and high levels of global data transparency. It encompasses an enterprise architecture, with a global, single-instance ERP system. Within our IT systems, we continue to move toward integrated, homogeneous applications and common data structures. We are also largely standardizing our key business processes. The implementation of the systems and processes has been proceeding on a staggered basis over a multi-year period. We have implemented the Blue Ocean program in our Swiss, Chinese, U.K., Benelux, German, and certain U.S. and Southeast Asia operations. We estimate that we have more than 80% of our users on the program, and we will continue to implement additional locations and functionality over the coming years. 10 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We hold over 5,000 patents and trademarks (including pending applications), primarily in the United States, Switzerland, China, the European Union, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, France, Japan, South Korea, Brazil, and India. Our products generally incorporate a wide variety of technological innovations, some of which are protected by patents of various durations. Products are generally not protected as a whole by individual patents, and as a result, no one patent or group of related patents is material to our business. We have numerous trademarks, including the Mettler-Toledo name and logo, which are material to our business. We regularly protect against infringement of our intellectual property. Regulation Our products are subject to various regulatory standards and approvals by weights and measures regulatory authorities. All of our electrical components are subject to electrical safety standards. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulations. Approvals are required to ensure our instruments do not impermissibly influence other instruments and are themselves not affected by other instruments. In addition, some of our products are used in legal for trade applications, in which prices based on weight are calculated and for which specific weights and measures approvals are required. Although there are a large number of regulatory agencies across our markets, there is an