Item 1. Business 9 Item 1A. Risk Factors 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 48 Item 2. Properties 49 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 49 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 49 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 50 Item 6. [Reserved] 51 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9B. Other Information 68 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 82 Signatures 83 Table of Contents Terms Used in this Annual Report Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Annual Report ) to (i) the Company, we, our and us refer to NCLH (as defined below) and its subsidiaries, (ii) NCLC refers to NCL Corporation Ltd., (iii) NCLH refers to Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd., (iv) Norwegian Cruise Line or Norwegian refers to the Norwegian Cruise Line brand and its predecessors, and (v) Prestige refers to Prestige Cruises International S. de R.L. (formerly Prestige Cruises International, Inc.), together with its consolidated subsidiaries, including Oceania Cruises Ltd. (formerly Oceania Cruises S. de R.L.) ( Oceania Cruises ) and Seven Seas Cruises Ltd. (formerly Seven Seas Cruises S. de R.L.) ( Regent ) (Oceania Cruises also refers to the brand by the same name and Regent also refers to the brand Regent Seven Seas Cruises). References to the U.S. are to the United States of America, and dollars or $ are to U.S. dollars, the U.K. are to the United Kingdom, British Pound Sterling or are to the official currency of the U.K. and euros or are to the official currency of the Eurozone. This Annual Report includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as Adjusted Gross Margin, Net Cruise Cost, Adjusted Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted EPS. Definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures are included below. For further information about our non-GAAP financial measures including detailed adjustments made in calculating our non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, we refer you to Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless otherwise indicated in this Annual Report, the following terms have the meanings set forth below: Acquisition of Prestige. In November 2014, we acquired Prestige in a cash and stock transaction for total consideration of $3.025 billion, including the assumption of debt. Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA adjusted for other income (expense), net and other supplemental adjustments. Adjusted EPS. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) divided by the number of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. Adjusted Gross Margin. Gross margin adjusted for payroll and related, fuel, food, other and ship depreciation. Gross margin is calculated pursuant to GAAP as total revenue less total cruise operating expense and ship depreciation. Adjusted Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel. Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel adjusted for supplemental adjustments. Adjusted Net Income (Loss). Net income (loss) adjusted for the effect of dilutive securities and other supplemental adjustments. Allura Class Ships. Oceania Cruises Vista and Oceania Cruises Allura. Berths. Double occupancy capacity per cabin (single occupancy per studio cabin) even though many cabins can accommodate three or more passengers. Breakaway Class Ships. Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway. Breakaway Plus Class Ships. Norwegian Escape, Norwegian Joy, Norwegian Bliss and Norwegian Encore. Capacity Days. Berths available for sale multiplied by the number of cruise days for the period for ships in service. 3 Table of Contents CDC. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Dry-dock. A process whereby a ship is positioned in a large basin where all of the fresh/sea water is pumped out in order to carry out cleaning and repairs of those parts of a ship which are below the water line. EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, and depreciation and amortization. EPS. Earnings (loss) per share. GAAP. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. Gross Cruise Cost. The sum of total cruise operating expense and marketing, general and administrative expense. Gross Tons. A unit of enclosed passenger space on a cruise ship, such that one gross ton equals 100 cubic feet or 2.831 cubic meters. IMO. International Maritime Organization, a United Nations agency that sets international standards for shipping. IPO. The initial public offering of 27,058,824 ordinary shares, par value $0.001 per share, of NCLH, which was consummated on January 24, 2013. Jewel Class Ships. Norwegian Jewel, Norwegian Pearl, Norwegian Jade and Norwegian Gem. Net Cruise Cost. Gross Cruise Cost less commissions, transportation and other expense and onboard and other expense. Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel. Net Cruise Cost less fuel expense. Occupancy or Occupancy Percentage . The ratio of Passenger Cruise Days to Capacity Days. A percentage greater than 100% indicates that three or more passengers occupied some cabins. Passenger Cruise Days. The number of passengers carried for the period, multiplied by the number of days in their respective cruises. Prima Class Ships. Norwegian Prima, Norwegian Viva, Norwegian Aqua and three additional ships on order. Private Exchangeable Notes. On May 28, 2020, pursuant to an indenture among NCLC, as issuer, NCLH, as guarantor, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, NCLC issued $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of exchangeable senior notes due 2026. The Private Exchangeable Notes were repurchased in March 2021. Revolving Loan Facility. The senior secured revolving credit facility, which was increased from $875 million to $1.2 billion in October 2023. SEC. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Credit Agreement, originally dated as of May 24, 2013, as amended and restated on October 31, 2014, June 6, 2016, October 10, 2017, January 2, 2019 and May 8, 2020, and as further amended on January 29, 2021, March 25, 2021, November 12, 2021 and December 6, 2022, by and among NCLC and Voyager Vessel Company, LLC, as co-borrowers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative 4 Table of Contents agent and as collateral agent, and various lenders and agents, providing for a senior secured credit facility consisting of (i) the Revolving Loan Facility and (ii) the Term Loan A Facility. Shipboard Retirement Plan . An unfunded defined benefit pension plan for certain crew members which computes benefits based on years of service, subject to certain requirements. Term Loan A Facility . The senior secured term loan A facility which was fully repaid in October 2023. 5 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained, or incorporated by reference, in this report, including, without limitation, those regarding our business strategy, financial position, results of operations, plans, prospects, actions taken or strategies being considered with respect to our liquidity position, valuation and appraisals of our assets and objectives of management for future operations (including those regarding expected fleet additions, our expectations regarding the impact of macroeconomic conditions and recent global events, our expectations regarding cruise voyage occupancy, operational position, demand for voyages, plans or goals for our sustainability program and decarbonization efforts, our expectations for future cash flows and profitability, financing opportunities and extensions, and efforts to reduce operating expenses and capital expenditures) are forward-looking statements. Many, but not all, of these statements can be found by looking for words like expect, anticipate, goal, project, plan, believe, seek, will, may, forecast, estimate, intend, future and similar words. Forward-looking statements do not guarantee future performance and may involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in those forward-looking statements. Examples of these risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to the impact of: adverse general economic factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of interest rates, inflation, unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets, and perceptions of these conditions that decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence; implementing precautions in coordination with regulators and global public health authorities to protect the health, safety and security of guests, crew and the communities we visit and to comply with related regulatory restrictions; our indebtedness and restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness that require us to maintain minimum levels of liquidity and be in compliance with maintenance covenants and otherwise limit our flexibility in operating our business, including the significant portion of assets that are collateral under these agreements; our ability to work with lenders and others or otherwise pursue options to defer, renegotiate, refinance or restructure our existing debt profile, near-term debt amortization, newbuild related payments and other obligations and to work with credit card processors to satisfy current or potential future demands for collateral on cash advanced from customers relating to future cruises; our need for additional financing or financing to optimize our balance sheet, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and our outstanding exchangeable notes and any future financing which may be dilutive to existing shareholders; the unavailability of ports of call; future increases in the price of, or major changes, disruptions or reduction in, commercial airline services; changes involving the tax and environmental regulatory regimes in which we operate, including new regulations aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions; the accuracy of any appraisals of our assets; our success in controlling operating expenses and capital expenditures; 6 Table of Contents trends in, or changes to, future bookings and our ability to take future reservations and receive deposits related thereto; adverse events impacting the security of travel, or customer perceptions of the security of travel, such as terrorist acts, armed conflict, such as Russia s invasion of Ukraine or the Israel-Hamas war, or threats thereof, acts of piracy, and other international events; public health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and their effect on the ability or desire of people to travel (including on cruises); adverse incidents involving cruise ships; our ability to maintain and strengthen our brand; breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology systems and other networks or our actual or perceived failure to comply with requirements regarding data privacy and protection; changes in fuel prices and the type of fuel we are permitted to use and/or other cruise operating costs; mechanical malfunctions and repairs, delays in our shipbuilding program, maintenance and refurbishments and the consolidation of qualified shipyard facilities; the risks and increased costs associated with operating internationally; our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel or employee relations issues; impacts related to climate change and our ability to achieve our climate-related or other sustainability goals; our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage; pending or threatened litigation, investigations and enforcement actions; volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, which may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees; any further impairment of our trademarks, trade names or goodwill; our reliance on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our expansion into new markets and investments in new markets and land-based destination projects; overcapacity in key markets or globally; and other factors set forth under Risk Factors herein. The above examples are not exhaustive and new risks emerge from time to time. There may be additional risks that we consider immaterial or which are unknown. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, assumptions, expectations, estimates and projections regarding our present and future business strategies and the environment in which we expect to operate in the future. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any 7 Table of Contents forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change of events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement was based, except as required by law. WEBSITE REFERENCES In this Annual Report, we make references to our website at https://www.nclhltd.com. References to our website through this Annual Report are provided for convenience only and the content on our website does not constitute a part of, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report. 8 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business History and Development of the Company Norwegian commenced operations from Miami, Florida in 1966, launching the modern cruise industry by offering weekly departures from Miami, Florida to destinations in the Caribbean. In February 2011, NCLH, a Bermuda limited company, was formed. In January 2013, NCLH completed its IPO and the ordinary shares of NCLC were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH, and NCLH became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares and parent company of NCLC. In November 2014, we completed the Acquisition of Prestige. During the fourth quarter of 2023, in response to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ( OECD ) s BEPS 2.0 Pillar 2 global tax reform, the Company restructured its organizational structure by realigning many of its operations across its three different brands into a single jurisdiction, Bermuda. In connection with the reorganization, among other steps, certain NCLH subsidiaries previously domiciled in the Isle of Man, the Cayman Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Panama and the state of Delaware, were redomiciled to Bermuda. Our Company Business Overview We are a leading global cruise company which operates the Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises brands. Our brands offer itineraries to worldwide destinations including Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, South America, Africa, Canada, Bermuda, Caribbean, Alaska and Hawaii. Norwegian s U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America, provides the industry s only entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii. All of our brands offer an assortment of features, amenities and activities, including a variety of accommodations, multiple dining venues, bars and lounges, spa, casino and retail shopping areas and numerous entertainment choices. All brands also offer a selection of shore excursions at each port of call as well as hotel packages for stays before or after a voyage. As of December 31, 2023, we had 32 ships with approximately 66,500 Berths. During 2023, we took delivery of three ships. In April 2023 we took delivery of Oceania Cruises Vista, in August 2023 we took delivery of Norwegian Viva, and in November 2023 we took delivery of Seven Seas Grandeur. We have orders for five additional ships to be delivered. For the Norwegian brand, we have four Prima Class Ships on order, with currently scheduled delivery dates from 2025 through 2028. For Oceania Cruises, we have one Allura Class Ship on order for delivery in 2025. These additions to our fleet are expected to increase our total Berths to approximately 82,500. Corporate Information Our registered offices are located at Walkers Corporate (Bermuda) Limited, Park Place, 55 Par-la-Ville Road, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company s Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Development Officer and Assistant Secretary, is our agent for service of process at our principal executive offices. 9 Table of Contents Near-Term Priorities Capitalize on healthy demand environment In 2023, we took delivery of three ships and absorbed the corresponding new capacity. We managed to maintain an optimal 12-month forward booked position while also increasing pricing. Additionally, we focused on maximizing onboard revenue generation by implementing bundling strategies to increase revenue generation prior to sailing. These efforts allowed us to leverage the healthy demand environment and drive overall profitability, and we expect to continue to take advantage of these market conditions in 2024. Right-size cost base We are currently undergoing a broad and ongoing effort to improve operating efficiencies, including cost minimization initiatives, to strengthen the foundation for sustained, profitable growth and mitigate the impact of inflation and supply chain disruptions. We have various planned initiatives both shoreside and shipboard, either already implemented or in process, which we expect will contribute to this broader efficiency improvement effort while continuing to provide value to our guests. Strategic enhancements to guest experience We are continually working on enhancements aimed at maximizing guest satisfaction and with a focus on efficient investments that prioritize returns. For example, in 2023 we announced that we would improve the connectivity for guests and crew at sea by offering Space X s Starlink high-speed internet on our ships, which is expected to be completed for the entire fleet in 2024. By identifying and implementing these enhancements, we aim to provide an exceptional guest experience and further strengthen our market position. Chart path to reduce leverage and lower the balance sheet risk In 2023, we continued to take actions to bolster our financial condition as part of our long-term post-pandemic financial recovery strategy. Refinanced the Term Loan A Facility maturing in January 2024 and 2025 with two non-amortizing instruments: NCLC issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8.375% senior secured notes due 2028 in February 2023 and $790 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% senior secured notes due 2029 in October 2023. Amended and restated the Senior Secured Credit Facility (the Sixth ARCA ) in October 2023, which among other things, increased the aggregate amount of the Revolving Loan Facility from $875 million to $1.2 billion and extended the maturity to October 2026. In February 2023, we entered into an amended and restated commitment letter for $650 million to provide additional liquidity to the Company through February 2024, with an option for NCLC to further extend the commitment through February 2025 at its election. In connection with the execution of the current commitment letter, NCLC issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 9.75% senior secured notes due 2028. In February 2024, we extended the $650 million undrawn commitment from February 2024 to March 2024 while maintaining our option to further extend the commitment. We are currently taking steps to refinance the commitment. As further described in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources, we expect the refinanced commitment to be extended for one year through March 2025, when effective. In connection with this refinancing, the $250 million 9.75% senior secured notes due 2028 are expected to be repurchased. This refinancing, which is expected to close in early March subject to approval by our Board of Directors, will reduce interest expense and leverage while also releasing all of the collateral securing the notes and commitment. Refer to Note 8 Long-Term Debt for further details about the above transactions. 10 Table of Contents Our Fleet The following table presents information about our ships and their primary areas of operation based on current and future itineraries, which are subject to change. Ship (1) Year Built Primary Areas of Operation Norwegian Norwegian Aqua (2) 2025 Europe, Caribbean Norwegian Viva 2023 The Bahamas, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Prima 2022 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Encore 2019 Alaska, The Bahamas, Caribbean, Central America, Mexico-Pacific, U.S. West Coast Norwegian Bliss 2018 Alaska, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Mexico-Pacific, U.S. West Coast Norwegian Joy 2017 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Mexico-Pacific, U.S. West Coast Norwegian Escape 2015 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Getaway 2014 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Breakaway 2013 Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Epic 2010 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Gem 2007 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe Norwegian Jade 2006 Africa, Alaska, Asia, The Bahamas, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, U.S. West Coast Norwegian Pearl 2006 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe Norwegian Jewel 2005 Alaska, Asia, Caribbean, Central America, Mexico-Pacific, U.S. West Coast Pride of America 2005 Hawaii Norwegian Dawn 2002 Africa, Asia, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Star 2001 Antarctica, Europe, South America Norwegian Sun 2001 Alaska, Asia, Central America, Mexico-Pacific, South America, South Pacific, U.S. West Coast Norwegian Sky 1999 Asia, The Bahamas, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe Norwegian Spirit 1998 Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Hawaii, South Pacific Oceania Cruises Oceania Allura (3) 2025 The Bahamas, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe Oceania Vista 2023 Africa, Asia, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Mexico-Pacific, South America, South Pacific Oceania Riviera 2012 Africa, Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Europe, South Pacific Oceania Marina 2011 Africa, Antarctica, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, South America Oceania Nautica 2000 Africa, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Hawaii, South America, South Pacific Oceania Sirena 1999 Asia, Australia The Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Hawaii, South America, South Pacific Oceania Regatta 1998 Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Hawaii, Mexico-Pacific, South Pacific, U.S. West Coast Oceania Insignia 1998 Africa, Alaska, Antarctica, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Hawaii, Mexico-Pacific, South America, South Pacific, U.S. West Coast 11 Table of Contents Regent Seven Seas Grandeur 2023 The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Mexico-Pacific Seven Seas Splendor 2020 Africa, Antarctica, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Mexico-Pacific, South America Seven Seas Explorer 2016 Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand Seven Seas Voyager 2003 Africa, Asia, Antarctica, Australia New Zealand, Bermuda, Europe, South America, South Pacific Seven Seas Mariner 2001 Africa, Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Hawaii, Mexico-Pacific, South America, South Pacific, U.S. West Coast Seven Seas Navigator 1999 Africa, Asia, Australia New Zealand, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe, South America, South Pacific (1) The table above does not include the three additional ships on order. (2) The third of the Prima Class Ships, which is expected to be delivered in 2025. (3) The second of the Allura Class Ships, which is expected to be delivered in 2025. Our Mission, Competitive Strengths Business Strategies Our core mission is to provide exceptional vacation experiences delivered by passionate team members committed to world-class hospitality and innovation. We believe that the following business strengths support our overall strategy to deliver on our mission. Enhanced Product Offering and Guest Experience Our portfolio of three award-winning brands operates a combined 32 ships ranging in size from approximately 500 to over 4,000 Berths. Along with introducing new vessels to the fleet, we continually invest in revitalizations to existing ships to provide new and enhanced offerings that we believe deliver higher guest satisfaction and, in turn, higher pricing. Norwegian s ships cater to a variety of travelers with up to 20 dining options; various attractions, including the world s only racetracks at sea; a wide array of entertainment options; full-service spas at sea; and a diverse range of accommodations including luxury suites in The Haven, studio staterooms designed and priced for the solo traveler and everything in between. Oceania Cruises award-winning onboard dining, with multiple open seating dining venues, is a central highlight of its cruise experience. Regent s all-inclusive offering includes business class air on intercontinental flights, unlimited shore excursions, one-night pre-cruise hotel package in Concierge Suites and higher, specialty restaurants, unlimited beverages, including fine wines and spirits, pre-paid gratuities, unlimited Wi-Fi, transfers between airport and ship, valet laundry service and other amenities. The Norwegian, Oceania Cruises and Regent brands all offer a high level of onboard service. The organizational structure of our operations promotes collaboration amongst our brands to exchange best practices that ultimately provide an enhanced guest experience. Norwegian offers guests high quality service and the freedom and flexibility to design their ideal cruise vacation on their schedule with no set dining times, a variety of activity options and no formal dress codes. Oceania Cruises and Regent are known for their high level of service, including some of the highest crew-to-guest ratios in the industry with trained staff providing personalized service and world class cuisine. Rich Stateroom Mix The Norwegian, Oceania Cruises and Regent fleets offer an attractive mix of staterooms, suites and villas. Norwegian offers a variety of accommodations to meet the needs of all types of travelers, from inside, oceanview, balcony and connecting staterooms. For guests looking to spread out, Norwegian delivers a range of suites, from two-bedroom family suites to penthouses and owner suites, as well as three-bedroom Garden Villas measuring up to 6,694 square feet. In addition, 13 of Norwegian s ships offer The Haven, a key-card access enclave on the upper decks with luxurious suite accommodations, exclusive amenities, and 24/7 butler and concierge service. The Haven guests also enjoy exclusive access to a dedicated pool, hot tubs, sundeck, fine-dining restaurant, bar lounge and other amenities. The Haven 12 Table of Contents experience is available on Norwegian Epic, and the vessels of the Jewel, Breakaway, Breakaway Plus and Prima Class Ships. Norwegian s accommodations also include studio staterooms designed for solo travelers centered around a key-card access only Studio Lounge where single travelers can interact. Recently, Norwegian expanded its solo stateroom offerings across its entire fleet, offering more variety of staterooms priced for the solo traveler. The spacious and elegant accommodations on Oceania Cruises seven award-winning ships range from 143-square foot inside staterooms to opulent 2,400-square foot Owner Suites. The Regent fleet is comprised of six ships. Seven Seas Voyager, Mariner, Explorer, Splendor and Grandeur feature all-suite, all-balcony accommodations, and a majority of the accommodations on Seven Seas Navigator include balconies. The three newest ships in the Regent fleet, Seven Seas Grandeur, Splendor and Explorer, also feature the Regent Suite, a 4,443 square-foot luxurious suite accommodation that inc