Item 1. Business 9 Item 1A. Risk Factors 33 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 2. Properties 48 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 48 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6. [Reserved] 50 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 51 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 68 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B. Other Information 69 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 69 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 71 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 81 Table of Contents Terms Used in this Annual Report Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this annual report to (i) the Company, we, our and us refer to NCLH (as defined below) and its subsidiaries, (ii) NCLC refers to NCL Corporation Ltd., (iii) NCLH refers to Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd., (iv) Norwegian Cruise Line or Norwegian refers to the Norwegian Cruise Line brand and its predecessors, and (v) Prestige refers to Prestige Cruises International S. de R.L. (formerly Prestige Cruises International, Inc.), together with its consolidated subsidiaries, including Oceania Cruises S. de R.L. (formerly Oceania Cruises, Inc.) ( Oceania Cruises ) and Seven Seas Cruises S. de R.L. ( Regent ) (Oceania Cruises also refers to the brand by the same name and Regent also refers to the brand Regent Seven Seas Cruises). References to the U.S. are to the United States of America, and dollars or $ are to U.S. dollars, the U.K. are to the United Kingdom, British Pound Sterling or are to the official currency of the U.K. and euros or are to the official currency of the Eurozone. This annual report includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as Net Cruise Cost, Adjusted Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted EPS. Definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures are included below. For further information about our non-GAAP financial measures including detailed adjustments made in calculating our non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, we refer you to Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless otherwise indicated in this annual report, the following terms have the meanings set forth below: 2024 Exchangeable Notes . On May 8, 2020, pursuant to an indenture among NCLC, as issuer, NCLH, as guarantor, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, NCLC issued $862.5 million aggregate principal amount of exchangeable senior notes due 2024. 2024 Senior Secured Notes . On May 14, 2020, pursuant to an indenture among NCLC, as issuer, the guarantors party thereto, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee and security agent, NCLC issued $675.0 million aggregate principal amount of 12.25% senior secured notes due 2024. 2026 Senior Secured Notes . On July 21, 2020, pursuant to an indenture among NCLC, as issuer, the guarantors party thereto, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee and security agent, NCLC issued $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 10.25% senior secured notes due 2026. Acquisition of Prestige. In November 2014, we acquired Prestige in a cash and stock transaction for total consideration of $3.025 billion, including the assumption of debt. Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA adjusted for other income (expense), net and other supplemental adjustments. Adjusted EPS. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) divided by the number of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. Adjusted Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel. Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel adjusted for supplemental adjustments. Adjusted Net Income (Loss). Net income (loss) adjusted for supplemental adjustments. Allura Class Ships. Oceania Cruises Vista and one additional ship on order. Berths. Double occupancy capacity per cabin (single occupancy per studio cabin) even though many cabins can accommodate three or more passengers. 3 Table of Contents Breakaway Class Ships. Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway. Breakaway Plus Class Ships. Norwegian Escape, Norwegian Joy, Norwegian Bliss and Norwegian Encore. Capacity Days. Berths available for sale multiplied by the number of cruise days for the period for ships in service. CDC. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Constant Currency. A calculation whereby foreign currency-denominated revenue and expenses in a period are converted at the U.S. dollar exchange rate of a comparable period to eliminate the effects of foreign exchange fluctuations. Dry-dock. A process whereby a ship is positioned in a large basin where all of the fresh/sea water is pumped out in order to carry out cleaning and repairs of those parts of a ship which are below the water line. EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, and depreciation and amortization. EPS. Earnings (loss) per share. Explorer Class Ships. Regent s Seven Seas Explorer, Seven Seas Splendor, and Seven Seas Grandeur. GAAP. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. Gross Cruise Cost. The sum of total cruise operating expense and marketing, general and administrative expense. Gross Tons. A unit of enclosed passenger space on a cruise ship, such that one gross ton equals 100 cubic feet or 2.831 cubic meters. IMO. International Maritime Organization, a United Nations agency that sets international standards for shipping. IPO. The initial public offering of 27,058,824 ordinary shares, par value $0.001 per share, of NCLH, which was consummated on January 24, 2013. Jewel Credit Facility . The Credit Agreement, dated as of May 15, 2019 (as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 1, 2020, and as further amended by Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement dated as of January 29, 2021), among NCLC, as borrower, the lenders party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, Bank of America, N.A., Truist Bank (formerly known as Branch Banking and Trust Company), Fifth Third Bank and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., as joint bookrunners and arrangers, and Bank of America, N.A., Truist Bank (formerly known as Branch Banking and Trust Company), Fifth Third Bank and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., as co-documentation agents, providing for a $260.0 million senior secured credit facility. Net Cruise Cost. Gross Cruise Cost less commissions, transportation and other expense and onboard and other expense. Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel. Net Cruise Cost less fuel expense. Occupancy Percentage . The ratio of Passenger Cruise Days to Capacity Days. A percentage greater than 100% indicates that three or more passengers occupied some cabins. 4 Table of Contents Passenger Cruise Days. The number of passengers carried for the period, multiplied by the number of days in their respective cruises. Pride of America Credit Facility . The Credit Agreement, dated as of January 10, 2019 (as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, dated as of April 28, 2020, and as further amended by Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement, dated as of January 29, 2021), among NCLC, as borrower, the lenders party thereto, Nordea Bank Abp, New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and Nordea Bank Abp, New York Branch, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., MUFG Bank, Ltd., and Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (Publ), as joint bookrunners, arrangers and co-documentation agents, providing for a $230.0 million senior secured credit facility. Prima Class Ships. Norwegian Prima, Norwegian Viva and four additional ships on order. Revolving Loan Facility. $875.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility. SEC. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Credit Agreement, originally dated as of May 24, 2013, as amended and restated on October 31, 2014, June 6, 2016, October 10, 2017, January 2, 2019 and May 8, 2020, and as further amended on January 29, 2021, March 25, 2021 and November 12, 2021, by and among NCLC and Voyager Vessel Company, LLC, as co-borrowers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and as collateral agent, and various lenders and agents, providing for a senior secured credit facility consisting of (i) the Revolving Loan Facility and (ii) the Term Loan A Facility. Shipboard Retirement Plan . An unfunded defined benefit pension plan for certain crew members which computes benefits based on years of service, subject to certain requirements. Term Loan A Facility . The senior secured term loan A facility having an outstanding principal amount of approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2021. 5 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained, or incorporated by reference, in this report, including, without limitation, those regarding our business strategy, financial position, results of operations, plans, prospects, actions taken or strategies being considered with respect to our liquidity position, valuation and appraisals of our assets and objectives of management for future operations (including those regarding expected fleet additions, our ability to weather the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, our expectations regarding the resumption of cruise voyages and the timing for such resumption of cruise voyages, the implementation of and effectiveness of our health and safety protocols, operational position, demand for voyages, plans or goals for our sustainability program and decarbonization efforts, our expectations for future cash flows and profitability, financing opportunities and extensions, and future cost mitigation and cash conservation efforts and efforts to reduce operating expenses and capital expenditures) are forward-looking statements. Many, but not all, of these statements can be found by looking for words like expect, anticipate, goal, project, plan, believe, seek, will, may, forecast, estimate, intend, future and similar words. Forward-looking statements do not guarantee future performance and may involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in those forward-looking statements. Examples of these risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to the impact of: the spread of epidemics, pandemics and viral outbreaks and specifically, the COVID-19 pandemic, including its effect on the ability or desire of people to travel (including on cruises), which is expected to continue to adversely impact our results, operations, outlook, plans, goals, growth, reputation, cash flows, liquidity, demand for voyages and share price; implementing precautions in coordination with regulators and global public health authorities to protect the health, safety and security of guests, crew and the communities we visit and to comply with regulatory restrictions related to the pandemic; legislation prohibiting companies from verifying vaccination status; our indebtedness and restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness that require us to maintain minimum levels of liquidity and be in compliance with maintenance covenants and otherwise limit our flexibility in operating our business, including the significant portion of assets that are collateral under these agreements; our ability to work with lenders and others or otherwise pursue options to defer, renegotiate, refinance or restructure our existing debt profile, near-term debt amortization, newbuild related payments and other obligations and to work with credit card processors to satisfy current or potential future demands for collateral on cash advanced from customers relating to future cruises; our need for additional financing or financing to optimize our balance sheet, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and our outstanding exchangeable notes and any future financing which may be dilutive to existing shareholders; the unavailability of ports of call; future increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services; changes involving the tax and environmental regulatory regimes in which we operate, including new regulations aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions; the accuracy of any appraisals of our assets as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise; 6 Table of Contents our success in controlling operating expenses and capital expenditures; trends in, or changes to, future bookings and our ability to take future reservations and receive deposits related thereto; adverse events impacting the security of travel, such as terrorist acts, armed conflict and threats thereof, acts of piracy, and other international events; adverse incidents involving cruise ships; adverse general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of interest, unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets, and perceptions of these conditions that decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence; breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks or our actual or perceived failure to comply with requirements regarding data privacy and protection; changes in fuel prices and the type of fuel we are permitted to use and/or other cruise operating costs; mechanical malfunctions and repairs, delays in our shipbuilding program, maintenance and refurbishments and the consolidation of qualified shipyard facilities; the risks and increased costs associated with operating internationally; our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel or employee relations issues; our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage; pending or threatened litigation, investigations and enforcement actions; any further impairment of our trademarks, trade names or goodwill; volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, which may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees; our reliance on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our expansion into new markets and investments in new markets and land-based destination projects; overcapacity in key markets or globally; and other factors set forth under Risk Factors. Additionally, many of these risks and uncertainties are currently amplified by and will continue to be amplified by, or in the future may be amplified by, the COVID-19 pandemic. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. There may be additional risks that we consider immaterial or which are unknown. In addition, some of our executive officers and directors have not sold their shares in us since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic as a gesture of support for our Company as they navigated us through unprecedented 7 Table of Contents challenges. Now that we have resumed operations, we anticipate that our executive officers and directors may sell shares under Rule 10b5-1 plans beginning in the first quarter of 2022 as part of their ordinary course financial planning. The above examples are not exhaustive and new risks emerge from time to time. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, assumptions, expectations, estimates and projections regarding our present and future business strategies and the environment in which we expect to operate in the future. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change of events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement was based, except as required by law. 8 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business History and Development of the Company Norwegian commenced operations from Miami in 1966, launching the modern cruise industry by offering weekly departures from Miami to the Caribbean. In February 2011, NCLH, a Bermuda limited company, was formed. In January 2013, NCLH completed its IPO and the ordinary shares of NCLC were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH, and NCLH became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares and parent company of NCLC (the Corporate Reorganization ). At the same time, NCLH contributed $460.0 million to NCLC and the historical financial statements of NCLC became those of NCLH. The Corporate Reorganization was affected solely for the purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure. In November 2014, we completed the Acquisition of Prestige. Additional Information Our registered offices are located at Walkers Corporate (Bermuda) Limited, Park Place, 3rd Floor, 55 Par-la-Ville Road, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, is our agent for service of process at our principal executive offices. Our Company Business Overview We are a leading global cruise company which operates the Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises brands. As of December 31, 2021, we had 28 ships with approximately 59,150 Berths and had orders for nine additional ships to be delivered through 2027. Due to COVID-19, we temporarily suspended all global cruise voyages from March 2020 until July 2021, when we resumed cruise voyages on a limited basis. We refer you to Impact of COVID-19 for further information. Our brands offer itineraries to worldwide destinations including Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, South America, Africa, Canada, Bermuda, Caribbean, Alaska and Hawaii. Norwegian s U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America, provides the industry s only entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii. All of our brands offer an assortment of features, amenities and activities, including a variety of accommodations, multiple dining venues, bars and lounges, spa, casino and retail shopping areas and numerous entertainment choices. All brands also offer a selection of shore excursions at each port of call as well as hotel packages for stays before or after a voyage. We have nine ships on order across our portfolio of brands. For the Norwegian brand, we have six Prima Class Ships on order, with expected delivery dates from 2022 through 2027. For Regent Seven Seas Cruises, we have one Explorer Class Ship on order for delivery in 2023. For Oceania Cruises, we have two Allura Class Ships on order for delivery in 2023 and 2025. These additions to our fleet will increase our total Berths to approximately 83,000, which includes additional Berths we plan to add to our Prima Class Ships, subject to certain conditions. The impacts of COVID-19 on the shipyards where our ships are under construction (or will be constructed) have resulted in some delays in expected ship deliveries, and the impacts of COVID-19 could result in additional delays in ship deliveries in the future, which may be prolonged. Impact of COVID-19 Due to the impact of COVID-19, travel restrictions and limited access to ports around the world, in March 2020, the Company implemented a voluntary suspension of all cruise voyages across our three brands. In the third quarter of 2021, we began a phased relaunch of certain cruise voyages with ships initially operating at reduced occupancy levels. 9 Table of Contents Beginning in December 2021, the spread of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, with its increased transmissibility, caused several operational challenges and disruptions, including new travel restrictions and increased protocols in ports of call limiting port availability, which led to the cancellation of certain voyages in the fourth quarter of 2021 and first quarter of 2022, and the postponement of the restart of certain vessels. As of the date hereof, 16 of our 28 ships, or 70% of our Berth capacity, are operating with guests on board. This excludes a vessel which was paused from service beginning December 2021 due to the cancellation of its South Africa and related itineraries as a result of travel restrictions and other operational challenges due to the Omicron variant. We expect to have approximately 85% of capacity operating by the end of the first quarter of 2022 with the full fleet expected to be back in operation during the early part of the second quarter of 2022. In connection with the expiration of the Temporary Extension and Modification of Framework for Conditional Sailing Order on January 15, 2022, the CDC announced that it would be implementing the COVID-19 Program for Cruise Ships Operating in U.S. Waters (the Program ), a voluntary COVID-19 risk mitigation program for foreign-flagged cruise ships operating in U.S. waters. The CDC released details regarding the Program in February 2022, which we have reviewed. We currently remain opted into the Program. As part of our SailSAFE health and safety program, our SailSAFE Global Health and Wellness Council, chaired by former head of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, continues to advise the Company on health and safety protocols in light of advancements in medicine and technology. Our selection of itineraries in the short-term will be predicated by port availability and the safety of the destinations we visit. We continue to work with our partners at ports as well as governmental agencies to address the impact that COVID-19 will have on future operations, including the ability to receive guests, potential capacity restrictions, and the need for physical distancing and other health guidelines that may be imposed on guests onboard the ship, in port facilities and while in the destinations we visit. Our goal is to provide a safe and healthy cruise vacation while at the same time keeping the guest experience as authentic as possible. All three of our brands afford the ability to pre-sell tickets and onboard activities in advance with long lead times ahead of sailing; however, sales of cruises are subject to consumer discretionary spending levels and may be influenced by geopolitical events and economic conditions. As a result of COVID-19, there are severe negative impacts on consumer spending as well as our travel advisors operations and their ability to book cruises. Refer to Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Update Regarding COVID-19 Pandemic for additional information. Strategy for COVID-19 The Company has taken several actions in response to the impact on our business brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. Addressed Significant Operational Challenges Health and Safety In response to the public health environment brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have developed SailSAFE TM , a comprehensive and multi-faceted health and safety strategy to enhance our already rigorous protocols and address the unique public health challenges posed by COVID-19. In July 2020, we announced a collaboration with Royal Caribbean Group to form a group of experts called the Healthy Sail Panel to guide the industry in the development of new and enhanced cruise health and safety standards. The panel is co-chaired by Dr. Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and Governor Mike Leavitt, former Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and consists of globally recognized experts from various disciplines, including public health, infectious disease, biosecurity, hospitality and maritime operations. The panel s recommendations have informed new detailed health and safety protocols for our return-to-service plan. The Company also further extended its depth and breadth of experts with the formation of its SailSAFE Global Health and Wellness Council, comprised of four experts at the forefront of their fields and led by Chairman Dr. Scott Gottlieb. 10 Table of Contents The Council s work complements the Healthy Sail Panel initiative and focuses on the implementation, compliance with and continuous improvement of health and safety protocols across the Company s operations. The Company continues to work with its expert advisors, the Healthy Sail Panel, and global public health authorities and government agencies to refine its comprehensive and multi-layered health and safety strategy to enhance its already rigorous health and safety standards in response to COVID-19. Port Availability In preparation for our resumption of operations, we coordinated closely with the homeports and ports of call around the world in which we had previously operated. Based on the openness and availability of ports, we drafted a voyage resumption plan with a slate of voyages, which we have modified as additional ports opened or temporarily closed for cruise traffic. Due to varied embarkation and disembarkation requirements by port, we are implementing processes to inform passengers of local regulations and requirements. We remain in contact with ports of call to ensure accessibility and any need for modifications due to port availability. Execution of Financial Action Plan We continue to take proactive measures to enhance liquidity and financial flexibility in the current environment. In March 2021, we received additional financing through various debt financings and an equity offering, collectively totaling $2.7 billion in gross proceeds. From the proceeds, approximately $1.5 billion was used to extinguish debt. In November 2021, the Company executed a $1 billion commitment through August 15, 2022 that provides additional liquidity to the Company. Also in November 2021, we received additional financing through a debt financing and an equity offering, collectively totaling $2.3 billion in gross proceeds. From the proceeds, approximately $2.0 billion was used to extinguish debt. In addition, in February 2022, we received additional financing through various debt financings, collectively totaling $2.1 billion in gross proceeds, all of which has been, or will be, used to redeem all of the outstanding 2024 Senior Secured Notes and 2026 Senior Secured Notes and to make principal payments on debt maturing in the short-term, including, in each case, to pay any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, as well as related premiums, fees and expenses. Refer to Note 8 Long-Term Debt for further details about the above transactions. We also undertook several proactive cost reduction and cash conservation measures to mitigate the financial and operational impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the reduction of capital expenditures and deferral of debt amortization as well as a reduction in operating expenses, including ship operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. Refer to Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources for more detail regarding our COVID-19 financial action plan. Resumption of Operations We began a phased relaunch of cruise voyages in July 2021. Initially, each newly launched ship is expected to operate at reduced occupancy, which will gradually increase over time. We plan to continue gradually launching ships from each brand through the early part of the second quarter of 2022. Based on the current conditions, we are planning for all ships to sail at full capacity by the end of 2022. The timing for returning ships to service, the level of occupancy on our ships and the percentage of our fleet in service will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic, further resurgences and new more contagious and/or vaccine-resistant variants of COVID-19, the availability, distribution, rate of public acceptance and efficacy of vaccines and therapeutics for COVID-19, our ability to comply with governmental regulations and implement new health and safety protocols, port availability, travel restrictions, bans and advisories and our ability to re-staff certain ships. Refer to