Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 55 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 55 Item 9B. Other Information 56 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 57 Item 11. Executive Compensation 57 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 57 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 57 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 57 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 58 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 66 Signatures 67 Table of Contents Terms Used in this Annual Report Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this annual report to (i) the Company, we, our and us refer to NCLH (as defined below) and its subsidiaries, (ii) NCLC refers to NCL Corporation Ltd., (iii) NCLH refers to Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd., (iv) Norwegian Cruise Line or Norwegian refers to the Norwegian Cruise Line brand and its predecessors, (v) Prestige refers to Prestige Cruises International S. de R.L. (formerly Prestige Cruises International, Inc.), together with its consolidated subsidiaries, including Oceania Cruises S. de R.L. (formerly Oceania Cruises, Inc.) ( Oceania Cruises ) and Seven Seas Cruises S. de R.L. ( Regent ) (Oceania Cruises also refers to the brand by the same name and Regent also refers to the brand Regent Seven Seas Cruises), (vi) Apollo refers to Apollo Global Management, LLC, its subsidiaries and the affiliated funds it manages, (vii) Genting HK refers to Genting Hong Kong Limited and/or its affiliates, and (viii) Sponsors refers to Apollo, certain affiliates of TPG Global, LLC and/or Genting HK. References to the U.S. are to the United States of America, and dollars or $ are to U.S. dollars, the U.K. are to the United Kingdom and euros or are to the official currency of the Eurozone. This annual report includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as Net Revenue, Net Yield, Net Cruise Cost, Adjusted Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS. Definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures are included below. For further information about our non-GAAP financial measures including detailed adjustments made in calculating our non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, we refer you to Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless otherwise indicated in this annual report, the following terms have the meanings set forth below: Acquisition of Prestige. In November 2014, we acquired Prestige in a cash and stock transaction for total consideration of $3.025 billion, including the assumption of debt. Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA adjusted for other income (expense), net and other supplemental adjustments. Adjusted EPS. Adjusted Net Income divided by the number of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. Adjusted Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel. Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel adjusted for supplemental adjustments. Adjusted Net Income. Net income adjusted for supplemental adjustments. Allura Class Ships. Oceania Cruises two ships on order. Berths. Double occupancy capacity per cabin (single occupancy per studio cabin) even though many cabins can accommodate three or more passengers. Breakaway Class Ships. Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway. Breakaway Plus Class Ships. Norwegian Escape, Norwegian Joy, Norwegian Bliss and Norwegian Encore. Capacity Days. Available Berths multiplied by the number of cruise days for the period. Constant Currency. A calculation whereby foreign currency-denominated revenue and expenses in a period are converted at the U.S. dollar exchange rate of a comparable period to eliminate the effects of foreign exchange fluctuations. 3 Table of Contents Dry-dock. A process whereby a ship is positioned in a large basin where all of the fresh/sea water is pumped out in order to carry out cleaning and repairs of those parts of a ship which are below the water line. EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, and depreciation and amortization. EPS. Earnings per share. Explorer Class Ships. Regent s Seven Seas Explorer, Seven Seas Splendor, and an additional ship on order. GAAP. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. Gross Cruise Cost. The sum of total cruise operating expense and marketing, general and administrative expense. Gross Tons. A unit of enclosed passenger space on a cruise ship, such that one gross ton equals 100 cubic feet or 2.831 cubic meters. Gross Yield. Total revenue per Capacity Day. IMO. International Maritime Organization, a United Nations agency that sets international standards for shipping. IPO. The initial public offering of 27,058,824 ordinary shares, par value $0.001 per share, of NCLH, which was consummated on January 24, 2013. Net Cruise Cost. Gross Cruise Cost less commissions, transportation and other expense and onboard and other expense. Net Cruise Cost Excluding Fuel. Net Cruise Cost less fuel expense. Net Revenue. Total revenue less commissions, transportation and other expense and onboard and other expense. Net Yield. Net Revenue per Capacity Day. Occupancy Percentage . The ratio of Passenger Cruise Days to Capacity Days. A percentage greater than 100% indicates that three or more passengers occupied some cabins. Passenger Cruise Days. The number of passengers carried for the period, multiplied by the number of days in their respective cruises. Project Leonardo. The next generation of ships for our Norwegian brand. Revolving Loan Facility. $875.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility. SEC. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Secondary Equity Offering(s). Secondary public offering(s) of NCLH s ordinary shares in December 2018, March 2018, November 2017, August 2017, December 2015, August 2015, May 2015, March 2015, March 2014, December 2013 and August 2013. Shipboard Retirement Plan . An unfunded defined benefit pension plan for certain crew members which computes benefits based on years of service, subject to certain requirements. 4 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this annual report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained, or incorporated by reference, in this annual report, including, without limitation, those regarding our business strategy, financial position, results of operations, plans, prospects and objectives of management for future operations (including expected fleet additions, development plans, objectives relating to our activities and expected performance in new markets), are forward-looking statements. Many, but not all, of these statements can be found by looking for words like expect, anticipate, goal, project, plan, believe, seek, will, may, forecast, estimate, intend, future and similar words. Forward-looking statements do not guarantee future performance and may involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in those forward-looking statements. Examples of these risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to the impact of: adverse events impacting the security of travel, such as terrorist acts, armed conflict and threats thereof, acts of piracy, and other international events; adverse incidents involving cruise ships; adverse general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets, and perceptions of these conditions that decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence; the spread of epidemics and viral outbreaks; breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks or our actual or perceived failure to comply with requirements regarding data privacy and protection; changes in fuel prices and the type of fuel we are permitted to use and/or other cruise operating costs; mechanical malfunctions and repairs, delays in our shipbuilding program, maintenance and refurbishments and the consolidation of qualified shipyard facilities; the risks and increased costs associated with operating internationally; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the unavailability of ports of call; overcapacity in key markets or globally; our expansion into and investments in new markets; our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage; our indebtedness and restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness that limit our flexibility in operating our business, including the significant portion of assets that are collateral under these agreements; pending or threatened litigation, investigations and enforcement actions; 5 Table of Contents volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, which may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees; our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel or employee relations issues; our reliance on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services; future increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services; our inability to keep pace with developments in technology; changes involving the tax and environmental regulatory regimes in which we operate; and other factors set forth under Risk Factors. The above examples are not exhaustive and new risks emerge from time to time. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, assumptions, expectations, estimates and projections regarding our present and future business strategies and the environment in which we expect to operate in the future. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change of events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement was based, except as required by law. 6 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business History and Development of the Company Norwegian commenced operations from Miami in 1966, launching the modern cruise industry by offering weekly departures from Miami to the Caribbean. In February 2011, NCLH, a Bermuda limited company, was formed with the issuance to the Sponsors of, in aggregate, 10,000 ordinary shares, with a par value of $0.001 per share. In January 2013, NCLH completed its IPO and the ordinary shares of NCLC, which were owned entirely by the Sponsors, were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH, and NCLH became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares and parent company of NCLC (the Corporate Reorganization ). At the same time, NCLH contributed $460.0 million to NCLC and the historical financial statements of NCLC became those of NCLH. The Corporate Reorganization was affected solely for the purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure. As a result of the Secondary Equity Offerings, as of December 2018, the Sponsors no longer owned the ordinary shares they held in NCLH. In November 2014, we completed the Acquisition of Prestige. We believe that the combination of Norwegian and Prestige creates a cruise operating company with a rich product portfolio and strong market presence. Additional Information Our registered offices are located at Walkers Corporate (Bermuda) Limited, Park Place, 3rd Floor, 55 Par-la-Ville Road, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, is our agent for service of process at our principal executive offices. Our Company Business Overview We are a leading global cruise company which operates the Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises brands. As of December 31, 2019, we had 27 ships with approximately 58,400 Berths and had orders for 10 additional ships through 2027, subject to certain conditions. Seven Seas Splendor was delivered in January 2020. We have one additional Explorer Class Ship on order for delivery in the fall of 2023. We have two Allura Class Ships on order for delivery in the winter of 2022 and spring of 2025. Project Leonardo will introduce an additional six ships with expected delivery dates from 2022 through 2027. These additions to our fleet will increase our total Berths to approximately 82,000. Our brands offer itineraries to worldwide destinations including Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, South America, Africa, Canada, Bermuda, Caribbean, Alaska and Hawaii. Norwegian s U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America, provides the industry s only entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii. All of our brands offer an assortment of features, amenities and activities, including a variety of accommodations, multiple dining venues, bars and lounges, spa, casino and retail shopping areas and numerous entertainment choices. All brands also offer a selection of shore excursions at each port of call as well as hotel packages for stays before or after a voyage. 7 Table of Contents Our Fleet The following table presents information about our ships and their primary areas of operation based on current and future itineraries, which are subject to change. Ship (1) Year Built Primary Areas of Operation Norwegian Norwegian Encore 2019 Alaska, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean Norwegian Bliss 2018 Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Mexico-Pacific Norwegian Joy 2017 Alaska, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Mexico-Pacific Norwegian Escape 2015 Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Getaway 2014 Bahamas, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Breakaway 2013 Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean Norwegian Epic 2010 Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Gem 2007 Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Mexico-Pacific Norwegian Jade 2006 Africa, Asia, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Pearl 2006 Bahamas, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe, Norwegian Jewel 2005 Alaska, Australia New Zealand, Hawaii, South Pacific Pride of America 2005 Hawaii Norwegian Dawn 2002 Asia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Europe Norwegian Star 2001 Europe, South America Norwegian Sun 2001 Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Central America Norwegian Sky 1999 Bahamas, Caribbean Norwegian Spirit 1998 Africa, Asia, Europe Oceania Cruises Oceania Riviera 2012 Caribbean, Europe Oceania Marina 2011 Europe, South America Oceania Nautica 2000 Africa, Asia, Europe Oceania Sirena 1999 Africa, Asia, Caribbean, Europe Oceania Regatta 1998 Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Central America, South Pacific Oceania Insignia 1998 Africa, Alaska, Asia, Bermuda, Canada New England, Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii, Mexico-Pacific, South America, South Pacific Regent Seven Seas Splendor (2) 2020 Caribbean, Central America, Europe Seven Seas Explorer 2016 Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Caribbean, Europe Seven Seas Voyager 2003 Africa, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Europe, South America Seven Seas Mariner 2001 Alaska, Asia, Australia New Zealand, Caribbean, Europe, South America Seven Seas Navigator 1999 Australia New Zealand, Canada New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Hawaii, South America, South Pacific (1) The table above does not include an additional 9 ships on order. (2) Seven Seas Splendor was delivered in January 2020. Our Mission and Competitive Strengths Our core mission is to provide exceptional vacation experiences delivered by passionate team members committed to world-class hospitality and innovation. We believe that the following business strengths support our overall strategy to deliver on our mission: 8 Table of Contents Rich Stateroom Mix The Norwegian, Oceania Cruises and Regent fleets offer an attractive mix of staterooms, suites and villas. Norwegian s accommodations include the groundbreaking Studio staterooms designed for solo travelers centered around the Studio Lounge, a private lounge area solely for Studio guests, as well as ocean views, balconies and connecting accommodations to meet the needs of all types of cruisers. Norwegian s suites range from two-bedroom family suites to penthouses and owner suites, as well as three-bedroom Garden Villas measuring up to 6,694 square feet. In addition, 11 of Norwegian s ships offer The Haven, a key-card access enclave on the upper decks with luxurious suite accommodations, exclusive amenities, and 24/7 butler and concierge service. The Haven suites surround a private courtyard with pool, hot tubs, sundeck, fitness center and steam rooms. On board Norwegian Epic, the Breakaway Class Ships and the Breakaway Plus Class Ships, The Haven also includes a private lounge and fine dining restaurant. The spacious and elegant accommodations on Oceania Cruises six award-winning ships, the 684-Berth Regatta, Insignia, Sirena and Nautica, and the 1,250-Berth Marina and Riviera, range from 143-square foot inside staterooms to opulent 2,030-square foot owner suites. The Regent fleet is comprised of five ships. Seven Seas Voyager, Seven Seas Mariner, Seven Seas Explorer and Seven Seas Splendor feature all-suite, all-balcony accommodations, and a majority of the accommodations on Seven Seas Navigator include balconies. The two newest ships in the Regent fleet, Seven Seas Splendor and Seven Seas Explorer, also feature the Regent Suite, a 4,443 square-foot luxurious suite accommodation that includes an in-suite spa retreat, a 1,300 square-foot wraparound veranda, and a glass-enclosed solarium sitting area. High-Quality Service The Norwegian, Oceania Cruises and Regent brands all offer a high level of onboard service. We collaborate amongst the brands to provide an enhanced guest experience. Norwegian offers guests the freedom and flexibility to design their ideal cruise vacation on their schedule with no set dining times, a variety of entertainment options and no formal dress codes. Oceania Cruises and Regent are known for their quality of service, including some of the highest crew-to-guest ratios in the industry and a staff trained to deliver personalized and attentive service. Diverse Selection of Premium Itineraries We continually look to enhance our already broad range of premium itineraries. Our fleet has a worldwide deployment, offering voyages ranging from three days to a 180-day around-the-world cruise. Our vessels call on several ports in Scandinavia, Russia, the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Alaska, Canada and New England, Asia, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, Africa, India, South America, the Panama Canal and the Caribbean. We have also developed destinations to enhance the shore experience for our guests. In 2016, we introduced Harvest Caye in Southern Belize. The destination features Belize s only cruise ship pier, an expansive seven-acre white sand beach, 15,000 sq. ft. pool with swim up bar, multiple dining options and a nature center with wildlife experiences plus adventure tours. We were the first cruise line to offer calls to a private destination at Great Stirrup Cay in the Bahamas. Strong Cash Flow We believe our business model will generate a significant amount of cash flow with high revenue visibility. All three of our brands afford the ability to pre-sell tickets, receive customer deposits and sell onboard activities in advance with long lead times ahead of sailing. In terms of newbuild capital expenditures, the cash flow impact is mitigated as we have obtained export credit financing for the ships which is expected to fund approximately 80% of the contract price of each ship expected to be delivered through 2027, subject to certain conditions. Highly Experienced Team Our senior management team is comprised of executives with extensive experience in the cruise, travel, leisure and hospitality-related industries. See Information about our Executive Officers below. 9 Table of Contents Our Business Strategies Driving Demand We seek to attract vacationers to our products and services in several ways, including: delivering an enhanced, value-added vacation experience to our guests relative to other vacation alternatives; creating diverse and unique itineraries in new and existing markets; utilizing effective marketing and sales initiatives with a market-to-fill strategy; and strengthening our global footprint. Our value-added-vacation product, itinerary diversification, marketing and sales initiatives and the strengthening of our global footprint contribute to driving increased revenues for our fleet. Our market-to-fill strategy maintains pricing integrity by offering both the best price early in the booking cycle and value-added promotions when necessary to mitigate the need to compromise on price. Our destination management team reviews deployments across the fleet, either repositioning ships to new destinations or fine-tuning itineraries, with the goal of diversifying our deployment and creating product scarcity which, in turn, leads to higher pricing. We also seek to increase demand through effective marketing campaigns across various channels such as branding campaigns on nationwide television, robust and varied digital campaigns or targeted mail campaigns aimed at supporting seasonal deployments. Our sales forces are also drivers of demand, particularly in terms of educating travel advisors on our products and services in order to better sell to potential vacationers. Lastly, our international efforts are aimed at strengthening our global footprint by increasing brand awareness across the globe which allows us to diversify our guest sourcing. We maintain numerous sales offices which support sales and marketing efforts in various markets outside of North America including the United Kingdom, Europe, Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, India, Japan and Singapore. Maximize Revenue We focus on growing revenue through various initiatives aimed at increasing ticket prices and Occupancy Percentages as well as onboard spending to drive higher overall revenue. Our specific initiatives include: Strategic Relationships. We have strategic relationships with travel advisors and tour operators who commit to purchasing a certain level of inventory with long lead times. Bundling Strategy. The Norwegian brand offers guests the choice of a more inclusive, value-add product offering on certain sailings and in certain stateroom selections by allowing guests to choose from multiple amenities. Casino Player Strategy. We have non-exclusive arrangements with casino partners worldwide whereby loyal gaming guests are offered cruise reward certificates redeemable for cruises. Through property sponsored events and joint marketing programs, we have the opportunity to market cruises to these guests. These arrangements with casino partners have the dual benefit of filling open inventory and reaching guests expected to generate above average onboard revenue through the casino and other onboard spending. Itinerary Optimization. We manage our ships deployments to promote better breadth of itineraries, sell cruises further in advance and maximize profitability. 10 Table of Contents Ship Refurbishments. We have invested in revitalizations to our ships which provides an enhanced product that we believe delivers higher guest satisfaction and, in turn, higher pricing. Initiatives to Suppress Costs We continue to leverage the combined purchasing power of our three brands to further reduce costs throughout the organization. This initiative is bolstered by our Supply Chain and Logistics Management function which supports our three brands as well as our corporate and international offices. Our new ships are designed to enhance energy efficiency and we have several initiatives in place to improve efficiency on our existing fleet. Some of these initiatives include LED lighting upgrades, waste heat recovery, new hull coatings and itinerary optimization. Enhanced Product Offering and Guest Experience We believe our brands deliver a strong product offering and superb guest experience. Norwegian s ships offer up to 28 dining options, a diverse range of accommodations and what we believe is the widest array of entertainment at sea. Oceania Cruises award-winning onboard dining, with multiple open seating dining venues, is a central highlight of its cruise experience. Regent s all-inclusive offering includes air transportation, shore excursions, pre-cruise hotel stays (for concierge level and above), specialty restaurants, premium spirits and fine wines, gratuities, Wi-Fi and other amenities. We continually look for ways to enhance the already strong product offering and guest experience on board our three brands and in the destinations in which we call. We do so through ship refurbishments, enhancements to dining and entertainment offerings, expansion of immersive shore excursion offerings and more. Measured Fleet Expansion Norwegian Encore was delivered in October 2019. This ship is the largest in our fleet at approximately 169,000 Gross Tons. With approximately 4,000 Berths, she is similar in design to Norwegian Bliss and includes additional innovative features. Project Leonardo consists of six ships on order for the Norwegian brand with expected delivery dates through 2027, subject to certain conditions. Each of the six Project Leonardo ships are approximately 140,000 Gross Tons and 3,300 Berths. For the Regent brand, Seven Seas Splendor was delivered in January 2020. We have an order for one additional Explorer Class Ship to be delivered in 2023. Each of the Explorer Class Ships will be approximately 55,000 Gross Tons and 750 Berths. For the Oceania Cruises brand, we have orders for two Allura Class Ships to be delivered in 2022 and 2025. Each of the Allura Class Ships will be approximately 67,000 Gross Tons and 1,200 Berths. We believe these new ships will allow us to continue expanding the reach of our brands, positioning us for accelerated growth and providing an optimized return on invested capital. We have obtained export credit financing which is expected to fund approximately 80% of the contract price of each ship expected to be delivered through 2027, subject to certain conditions. Expand and Strengthen Our Product Distribution Channels As part of our growth strategy, we continually look for ways to deepen and expand our sales channels. The retail/travel advisor channel represents the majority of our ticket sales. Our travel partner base is comprised of an extensive network of approximately 23,000 independent travel advisors worldwide. We have made substantial investments with improvements in booking technologies, transparent pricing strategies, effective marketing tools, improved communication and cooperative marketing initiatives to enhance and facilitate the ability of travel advisors to market and sell our products. We have expanded sales teams who work closely with our travel advisor partners on maximizing their marketing and sales effectiveness across all three of our brands. Our focused account management is designed to create solutions catered to the individual retailer through product and sales training. This education creates a deeper understanding of all our product offerings. 11 Table of Contents We continue to invest in our brands by enhancing websites, mobile applications and passenger services departments including our personal cruise consultants, who offer personalized service throughout the process of designing cruise vacations for our guests. We have also enhanced our capabilities to enable guests to customize their vacation experience with certain onboard product offerings. We also have an onboard cruise sales channel where guests can book their next cruise or purchase cruise certificates to apply to their next cruise while vacationing on our ships. Our meetings, incentives and charters channel focuses on full ship charters as well as corporate meetings and incentive travel. These sales often have very long lead times and can fill a significant portion of the ship s capacity, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction. Sixthman, a subsidiary company specializing in developing and delivering music-oriented charters, provides a market that enables travel advisors to sell high-quality music experiences at sea to guests. Itineraries We offer cruise itineraries ranging from a few days to 180-days calling on worldwide locations, including destinations in Scandinavia, Russia, the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Alaska, Canada and New England, Asia, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, Africa, India, South America, the Panama Canal and the