Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 54 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 54 Item 9B. Other Information 56 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11. Executive Compensation 56 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 56 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 57 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 57 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 59 i About this Form 10-K Throughout this Form 10-K, unless otherwise specified: Nasdaq, we, us and our refer to Nasdaq, Inc. Nasdaq Baltic refers to collectively, Nasdaq Tallinn AS, Nasdaq Riga, AS, and AB Nasdaq Vilnius. Nasdaq BX refers to the cash equity exchange operated by Nasdaq BX, Inc. Nasdaq BX Options refers to the options exchange operated by Nasdaq BX, Inc. Nasdaq Clearing refers to the clearing operations conducted by Nasdaq Clearing AB. Nasdaq First North refers to our alternative marketplaces for smaller companies and growth companies in the Nordic and Baltic regions. Nasdaq GEMX refers to the options exchange operated by Nasdaq GEMX, LLC. Nasdaq ISE refers to the options exchange operated by Nasdaq ISE, LLC. Nasdaq MRX refers to the options exchange operated by Nasdaq MRX, LLC. Nasdaq Nordic refers to collectively, Nasdaq Clearing AB, Nasdaq Stockholm AB, Nasdaq Copenhagen A/S, Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd, and Nasdaq Iceland hf. Nasdaq PHLX refers to the options exchange operated by Nasdaq PHLX LLC. Nasdaq PSX refers to the cash equity exchange operated by Nasdaq PHLX LLC. The Nasdaq Options Market refers to the options exchange operated by The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. The Nasdaq Stock Market refers to the cash equity exchange and listing venue operated by The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. * * * * * * Nasdaq also provides as a tool for the reader the following list of abbreviations and acronyms that are used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 401(k) Plan: Voluntary Defined Contribution Savings Plan 2016 Credit Facility: $400 million senior unsecured term loan facility repaid in full and terminated in June 2019 2017 Credit Facility: $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility which matures on April 25, 2022 2019 Notes: $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured floating rate notes repaid in full on maturity in March 2019 2020 Notes: $600 million aggregate principal amount of 5.55% senior unsecured notes repaid in full and terminated in May 2019 2021 Notes: 600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior unsecured notes due June 7, 2021 2023 Notes: 600 million aggregate principal amount of 1.75% senior unsecured notes due May 19, 2023 2024 Notes: $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2024 2026 Notes: $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.85% senior unsecured notes due June 30, 2026 2029 Notes: 600 million aggregate principal amount of 1.75% senior unsecured notes due March 28, 2029 2030 Notes: 600 million aggregate principal amount of 0.875% senior unsecured notes due February 13, 2030 ASU: Accounting Standards Update ATS: Alternative Trading System AUM: Assets Under Management CAT: A market-wide consolidated audit trail established by Nasdaq and other exchanges under an SEC approved plan CCP: Central Counterparty CFTC: U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission EMIR: European Market Infrastructure Regulation Equity Plan: Nasdaq Equity Incentive Plan ESPP: Nasdaq Employee Stock Purchase Plan ETF: Exchange Traded Fund ETP: Exchange Traded Product Exchange Act: Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board FICC: Fixed Income and Commodities Trading and Clearing FINRA: Financial Industry Regulatory Authority IPO: Initial Public Offering LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate MiFID II: Update to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ii MiFIR: Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation MTF: Multilateral Trading Facility NFF: Nasdaq Financial Framework; Nasdaq's end-to-end technology solutions for market infrastructure operators, buy-side firms, sell-side firms and other non-financial markets NFX: Nasdaq Futures, Inc. NPM: The NASDAQ Private Market, LLC NSCC: National Securities Clearing Corporation OCC: The Options Clearing Corporation OTC: Over-the-Counter Proxy Statement: Nasdaq s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders PSU: Performance Share Unit Regulation NMS: Regulation National Market System Regulation SCI: Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity SaaS: Software as a Service SEC: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SERP: Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SFSA: Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority SI: Systematic Internalizer S P: Standard Poor s S P 500: S P 500 Stock Index SRO: Self-regulatory Organization SSMA: Swedish Securities Markets Act 2007:528 TSR: Total Shareholder Return U.S. GAAP: U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UTP: Unlisted Trading Privileges UTP Plan: Joint SRO Plan Governing the Collection, Consolidation, and Dissemination of Quotation and Transaction Information for Nasdaq-Listed Securities Traded on Exchanges on a UTP Basis VAT: Value Added Tax * * * * * * NASDAQ, the NASDAQ logos, and other brand, service or product names or marks referred to in this report are trademarks or service marks, registered or otherwise, of Nasdaq, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries. FINRA and TRADE REPORTING FACILITY are registered trademarks of FINRA. * * * * * * This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes market share and industry data that we obtained from industry publications and surveys, reports of governmental agencies and internal company surveys. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information they contain has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but we cannot assure you that this information is accurate or complete. We have not independently verified any of the data from third-party sources nor have we ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein. Statements as to our market position are based on the most currently available market data. For market comparison purposes, The Nasdaq Stock Market data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for IPOs is based on data generated internally by us, which includes best efforts underwritings; therefore, the data may not be comparable to other publicly-available IPO data. Data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for new listings of equity securities on The Nasdaq Stock Market is based on data generated internally by us, which includes best efforts underwritings, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and ETPs. Data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for IPOs and new listings of equity securities on the Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges and Nasdaq First North also is based on data generated internally by us. IPOs and new listings data is presented as of period end. While we are not aware of any misstatements regarding industry data presented herein, our estimates involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in