Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 32 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Reserved 34 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 124 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 124 Item 9B. Other Information 126 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 126 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 127 Item 11. Executive Compensation 127 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 127 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 127 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 127 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 128 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 134 Signatures 135 2 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS The following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this report: NiSource Subsidiaries and Affiliates Columbia of Kentucky Columbia Gas of Kentucky, Inc. Columbia of Maryland Columbia Gas of Maryland, Inc. Columbia of Massachusetts Bay State Gas Company Columbia of Ohio Columbia Gas of Ohio, Inc. Columbia of Pennsylvania Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania, Inc. Columbia of Virginia Columbia Gas of Virginia, Inc. NIPSCO Northern Indiana Public Service Company LLC NiSource ("we," "us" or "our") NiSource Inc. Rosewater Rosewater Wind Generation LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Rosewater Wind Farm LLC Indiana Crossroads Wind Indiana Crossroads Wind Generation LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Indiana Crossroads Wind Farm LLC Abbreviations and Other ACE Affordable Clean Energy AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update ATM At-the-market BTA Build-transfer agreement CAP Compliance Assurance Process CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCRs Coal Combustion Residuals CEP Capital Expenditure Program CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (also known as Superfund) Corporate Units Series A Corporate Units COVID-19 ("the COVID-19 pandemic" or "the pandemic") Novel Coronavirus 2019 and its variants, including the Delta and Omicron variants, and any other variant that may emerge DPU Department of Public Utilities DSM Demand Side Management EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency EPS Earnings per share Equity Units Series A Equity Units FAC Fuel adjustment clause FMCA Federally Mandated Cost Adjustment GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GCA Gas cost adjustment GHG Greenhouse gases GWh Gigawatt hours HLBV Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value IRP Infrastructure Replacement Program IRS Internal Revenue Service IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission 3 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS LDCs Local distribution companies LIBOR London InterBank Offered Rate LIFO Last-in, first-out Massachusetts Business All of the assets sold to, and liabilities assumed by, Eversource pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement MGP Manufactured Gas Plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator MMDth Million dekatherms MW Megawatts MWh Megawatt hours NOL Net Operating Loss NTSB National Transportation Safety Board NYMEX The New York Mercantile Exchange OPEB Other Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PPA Power Purchase Agreement PSC Public Service Commission PUC Public Utilities Commission RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ROE Return on Equity ROU Right of Use SAVE Steps to Advance Virginia's Energy Plan Scope 1 GHG Emissions Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by us (e.g., emissions from our combustion of fuel, vehicles, and process emissions and fugitive emissions) SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SMRP Safety Modification and Replacement Program SMS Safety Management System STRIDE Strategic Infrastructure Development and Enhancement TCJA An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017) TDSIC Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge U.S. Attorney's Office U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts VIE Variable Interest Entity Note regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements," within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Investors and prospective investors should understand that many factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will be or can be realized. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our plans, strategies, objectives, expected performance, expenditures, recovery of expenditures through rates, stated on either a consolidated or segment basis, and any and all underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical fact. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "would," "aims," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," "forecast," and "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. 4 Table of Contents All forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, forecasts, estimates and expectations discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, among other things, our ability to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments; potential incidents and other operating risks associated with our business; our ability to adapt to, and manage costs related to, advances in technology; impacts related to our aging infrastructure; our ability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage and whether such coverage will protect us against significant losses; the success of our electric generation strategy; construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks; fluctuations in demand from residential and commercial customers; fluctuations in the price of energy commodities and related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demands; the attraction and retention of a qualified, diverse workforce and ability to maintain good labor relations; our ability to manage new initiatives and organizational changes; the actions of activist stockholders; the performance of third-party suppliers and service providers; potential cybersecurity-attacks; increased requirements and costs related to cybersecurity; any damage to our reputation; any remaining liabilities or impact related to the sale of the Massachusetts Business; the impacts of natural disasters, potential terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events; the physical impacts of climate change and the transition to a lower carbon future; our ability to manage the financial and operational risks related to achieving our carbon emission reduction goals; our debt obligations; any changes to our credit rating or the credit rating of certain of our subsidiaries; any adverse effects related to our equity units; adverse economic and capital market conditions or increases in interest rates; economic regulation and the impact of regulatory rate reviews; our ability to obtain expected financial or regulatory outcomes; continuing and potential future impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic; economic conditions in certain industries; the reliability of customers and suppliers to fulfill their payment and contractual obligations; the ability of our subsidiaries to generate cash; pension funding obligations; potential impairments of goodwill; changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the potential replacement of the LIBOR benchmark interest rate; the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, incidents, claims and litigation; potential remaining liabilities related to the Greater Lawrence Incident; compliance with the agreements entered into with the U.S. Attorney s Office to settle the U.S. Attorney s Office s investigation relating to the Greater Lawrence Incident; compliance with applicable laws, regulations and tariffs; compliance with environmental laws and the costs of associated liabilities; changes in taxation; and other matters set forth in Item 1, "Business," Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7, "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of this report, some of which risks are beyond our control. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each business segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing cautionary statements. We undertake no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any such obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or changes to the future results over time or otherwise, except as required by law. 5 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . NiSource Inc. is an energy holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 whose primary subsidiaries are fully regulated natural gas and electric utility companies, serving approximately 3.7 million customers in six states. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource on April 14, 1999. NiSource s principal subsidiaries include NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., a natural gas distribution holding company, and NIPSCO, a gas and electric company. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of these rate-regulated businesses. NiSource has two reportable segments: Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations. The following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 23, "Segments of Business," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to each segment. Gas Distribution Operations Our natural gas distribution operations serve approximately 3.2 million customers in six states. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., we own five distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to approximately 2.4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, and Maryland. Additionally, we distribute natural gas to approximately 853,000 customers in northern Indiana through our wholly-owned subsidiary NIPSCO. We operate approximately 54,600 miles of distribution main pipeline plus the associated individual customer service lines and 1,000 miles of transmission main pipeline located in our service areas described below. Throughout our service areas we also have gate stations and other operations support facilities. We earn revenues that are approved by the jurisdictions in which we operate for the delivery of natural gas to our customers. The approved revenues include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in the cost of natural gas. Revenues are adjusted for differences between actual costs, subject to reconciliation, and the amounts billed in current rates. Electric Operations We generate, transmit and distribute electricity through our subsidiary NIPSCO to approximately 483,000 customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and also engage in wholesale electric and transmission transactions. We own and operate sources of generation as well as source power through PPAs. We continue to transition our generation portfolio to primarily renewable sources. During 2021, we operated Rosewater for the full year and Indiana Crossroads Wind went into service during December 2021. We also purchased energy generated from renewable sources through PPAs. In October 2021, NIPSCO completed the retirement of two coal-burning units with installed capacity of approximately 903 MW at Schahfer Generating Station, located in Wheatfield, IN. As of December 31, 2021 we have multiple PPAs that provide 500 MW of capacity, with contracts expiring between 2024 and 2040. See below for information on our owned operating facilities: Facility Name Location Fuel Type Generating Capacity (MW) (1) R.M. Schahfer Wheatfield, IN Steam - Coal 722 Michigan City Michigan City, IN Steam - Coal 455 Sugar Creek West Terre Haute, IN CCGT 563 R.M. Schahfer Wheatfield, IN Natural Gas 155 Oakdale Carroll County, IN Hydro 9 Norway White County, IN Hydro 7 Rosewater Wind Generation LLC (2) White County, IN Wind 102 Indiana Crossroads Wind Generation LLC (2) White County, IN Wind 302 Total MW Capacity 2,315 (1) Represents current net generating capability of each fossil fuel and hydro generating unit. Nameplate capacity is listed for wind generating units. (2) NIPSCO is the managing partner of these joint ventures. Refer to Note 4, "Variable Interest Entities," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NIPSCO s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 765,000 volts, consists of 3,024 circuit miles. NIPSCO is interconnected with eight neighboring electric utilities. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . NIPSCO participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, MISO is responsible for managing energy markets, transmission constraints and the day-ahead, real-time, Financial Transmission Rights and ancillary markets. NIPSCO transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to MISO, and transmission service for NIPSCO occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff. NIPSCO units are dispatched by MISO which takes into account economics, reliability of the MISO system and unit availability. During the year ended December 31, 2021, NIPSCO units were dispatched to meet 47.87% of its load requirements, and NIPSCO purchased 52.13% from the MISO market. Business Strategy We focus our business strategy on providing safe and reliable service through our core, rate-regulated asset-based utilities, which generate substantially all of our operating income. Our utilities continue to move forward on core safety, infrastructure and environmental investment programs supported by complementary regulatory and customer initiatives across all six states in which we operate. Our goal is to develop strategies that benefit all stakeholders as we (i) embark on long-term infrastructure investment and safety programs to better serve our customers, (ii) align our tariff structures with our cost structure, and (iii) address changing customer conservation patterns. These strategies focus on improving safety and reliability, enhancing customer service, ensuring customer affordability and reducing emissions while generating sustainable returns. The safety of our customers, communities and employees has been and remains our top priority. SMS is an established operating model within NiSource. With the continued support and advice from our Quality Review Board (a panel of third parties with safety operations expertise engaged by management to advise on safety matters), we are continuing to mature our SMS processes, capabilities and talent as we collaborate within and across industries to enhance safety and reduce operational risk. Additionally, we continue to pursue regulatory and legislative initiatives that will allow residential customers not currently on our system to obtain gas service in a cost effective manner. In November 2021, we submitted our 2021 Integrated Resource Plan with the IURC. The plan calls for the replacement of the retiring units with a diverse portfolio of resources including demand side management resources, incremental solar, stand-alone energy storage and upgrades to existing facilities at the Sugar Creek Generating Station, among other steps. Refer to Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of these plans. The NiSource Political Action Committee ("NiPAC") provides our employees a voice in the political process. NiPAC is a voluntary, employee and director driven and funded political action committee, and NiPAC makes bipartisan political contributions to local, state and federal candidates, where permitted and in accordance with established guidelines. Consistent with our commitments and our approach to engagement, the NiPAC leadership committee members evaluate candidates for support on issues important to our business. Natural Gas Competition . Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the gas supply has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC customers can purchase gas directly from producers and marketers in an open, competitive market. This separation or unbundling of the transportation and other services offered by LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by LDCs. LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from their customers. Certain of our Gas Distribution Operations subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide our residential and commercial customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use our Gas Distribution Operations subsidiaries for transportation services. As of December 31, 2021, 26.2% of our residential customers and 35.4% of our commercial customers participated in such programs. Gas Distribution Operations competes with (i) investor-owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service areas, (ii) other regulated and unregulated natural gas intra and interstate pipelines and (iii) other alternate fuels, such as propane and fuel oil. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity has traditionally been the strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia due to comparatively low electric rates. Electric Competition . Indiana electric utilities generally have exclusive service areas under Indiana regulations, and retail electric customers in Indiana do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier. NIPSCO faces non-utility competition from other energy sources, such as self-generation by large industrial customers and other distributed energy sources. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . Seasonality A significant portion of our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales. During the heating and cooling seasons, revenues from gas and electric sales, respectively, are more significant than in other months. The heating season is primarily from November through March, and the cooling season is primarily from June through September. Rate Case Actions The following table describes current rate case actions as applicable in each of our jurisdictions net of tracker impacts. See "Cost Recovery and Trackers" below for further detail on trackers. (in millions) Company Proposed ROE Approved ROE Requested Incremental Revenue Approved Incremental Revenue Filed Status Rates Effective Currently Approved in Rates Columbia of Pennsylvania (1) 10.95 % None specified $ 98.3 $ 58.5 March 30, 2021 Approved December 16, 2021 December 2021 Columbia of Maryland 10.85 % 9.65 % $ 4.8 $ 2.4 May 14, 2021 Approved December 3, 2021 December 2021 Columbia of Kentucky (2) 10.30 % 9.35 % $ 26.7 $ 18.3 May 28, 2021 Approved December 28, 2021 January 2022 Columbia of Virginia (3) 10.95 % None specified $ 14.2 $ 1.3 August 28, 2018 Approved June 12, 2019 February 2019 Columbia of Ohio 11.50 % 10.39 % $ 87.8 $ 47.1 March 3, 2008 Approved December 3, 2008 December 2008 NIPSCO - Gas 10.70 % 9.85 % $ 138.1 $ 105.6 September 27, 2017 Approved September 19, 2018 October 2018 NIPSCO - Electric 10.80 % 9.75 % $ 21.4 $ (53.5) October 31, 2018 Approved December 4, 2019 January 2020 Active Rate Cases Columbia of Ohio 10.95 % In process $ 221.4 In process June 30, 2021 Order Expected Q3 2022 Q3 2022 NIPSCO - Gas (4) 10.50 % In process $ 109.7 In process September 29, 2021 Order Expected Q3 2022 September 2022 (1) No approved ROE is identified for this matter since the approved revenue increase is the result of a black box settlement under which parties agree upon the amount of increase without specifying ratemaking elements to establish the Company's revenue requirement. Pursuant to the settlement, for purposes of calculating its DSIC, Columbia of Pennsylvania shall use the equity return rate for gas utilities contained in the Pennsylvania Commission s most recent Quarterly Report on the Earnings of Jurisdictional Utilities, including quarterly updates thereto. (2) The approved ROE for natural gas capital riders ( e.g .,SMRP) is 9.275%. (3) Columbia of Virginia's rate case resulted in a black box settlement, representing a settlement to a specific revenue increase but not a specified ROE. The settlement provides use of a 9.70% ROE for future SAVE filings. (4) Proposed new rates would be implemented in 2 steps, with implementation of step 1 rates to be effective in September 2022 and step 2 rates to be effective in March 2023. COVID-19 Regulatory Deferrals In addition to the cost deferred to a regulatory asset as noted in Note 9, "Regulatory Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, certain states have permitted us to track lost late and disconnect fee revenues due to the pandemic. While these costs do not qualify as regulatory assets under ASC 980, we will consider seeking recovery of these costs in future regulatory proceedings. Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment The regulatory frameworks applicable to our operations, including environmental regulations, at both the state and federal levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on our operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this environment. We believe we are, in all material respects, in compliance with such laws and regulations and do not expect continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We continue to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations, and the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty. Refer to Note 19-E, "Environmental Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding environmental regulations that are applicable to our operations. The Gas Distribution Operations utilities have pursued non-traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include (i) the sale of products and services upstream of the companies service territory, (ii) the sale of products and services in the companies service territories, and (iii) gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations utility and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on-system services are offered by us to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations utility's system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations utilities an opportunity to share in the savings created from such situations as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and their ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges with their customers. We recognize that energy efficiency reduces emissions, conserves natural resources and saves our customers money. Our gas distribution companies offers programs such as energy efficiency upgrades, home checkups and weatherization services. The increased efficiency of natural gas appliances and improvements in home building codes and standards contributes to a long-term trend of declining average use per customer. While we are looking to expand offerings so the energy efficiency programs can benefit as many customers as possible, our Gas Distribution Operations have pursued changes in rate design to more effectively match recoveries with costs incurred. Columbia of Ohio has adopted a straight fixed variable rate design that closely links the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Columbia of Maryland and Columbia of Virginia have regulatory approval for weather and revenue normalization adjustments for certain customer classes, which adjust monthly revenues that exceed or fall short of approved levels. Columbia of Pennsylvania continues to operate its pilot residential weather normalization adjustment and also has a fixed customer charge. This weather normalization adjustment only adjusts revenues when actual weather compared to normal varies by more than 3%. Columbia of Kentucky incorporates a weather normalization adjustment for certain customer classes and also has a fixed customer charge. In a prior gas base rate proceeding, NIPSCO implemented a higher fixed customer charge for residential and small customer classes moving toward recovering more of its fixed costs through a fixed recovery charge, but has no weather or usage protection mechanism. While increased efficiency of electric appliances and improvements in home building codes and standards has similarly impacted the average use per electric customer in recent years, NIPSCO expects future growth in per customer usage as a result of increasing electric applications. Further growth is anticipated as electric vehicles become more prevalent. These ongoing changes in use of electricity will likely lead to development of innovative rate designs, and NIPSCO will continue efforts to design rates that increase the certainty of recovery of fixed costs. Cost Recovery and Trackers. Comparability of our line item operating results is impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as those described below. Increases in the expenses that are subject to approved regulatory tracker mechanisms generally lead to increased regulatory assets, which ultimately result in a corresponding increase in operating revenues and, therefore, have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Certain approved regulatory tracker mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the operating companies to quickly implement revised rates and recover associated costs. A portion of the Gas Distribution revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs through standard regulatory proceedings. All states in our operating area require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and confirm the recovery of prudently incurred energy commodity costs supplied to customers. A portion of the Electric Operations revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a FAC, which is updated quarterly to reflect actual costs incurred to supply electricity to customers. Human Capital Human Capital Management Governance and Organizational Practices . The Compensation and Human Capital Committee of our Board of Directors (the "Board") is primarily responsible for assisting the Board in overseeing our human capital management practices. In October 2021, the Board renamed the Compensation Committee the Compensation and Human Capital Committee and clarified the Committee s responsibilities in its Charter to include reviewing our human capital management function and programs, including related procedures, programs, policies and practices, and to make recommendations to management with respect to equal employment opportunity and diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives; employee engagement and corporate culture; and talent management. Our Board also reviews human capital management matters, including talent strategy, employee engagement and culture. Earlier in 2021, we hired a new Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer and a new Vice President and Chief Div