Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 Supplemental Item. Information about our Executive Officers 22 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 125 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 125 Item 9B. Other Information 126 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 128 Item 11. Executive Compensation 128 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 128 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 128 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 128 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 129 Signatures 134 2 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS The following is a list of abbreviations or acronyms that are used in this report: NiSource Subsidiaries, Affiliates and Former Subsidiaries Columbia of Kentucky Columbia Gas of Kentucky, Inc. Columbia of Maryland Columbia Gas of Maryland, Inc. Columbia of Massachusetts Bay State Gas Company Columbia of Ohio Columbia Gas of Ohio, Inc. Columbia of Pennsylvania Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania, Inc. Columbia of Virginia Columbia Gas of Virginia, Inc. Company NiSource Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context CPG (former subsidiary) Columbia Pipeline Group, Inc. NIPSCO Northern Indiana Public Service Company LLC NiSource ("we," "us" or "our") NiSource Inc. NiSource Corporate Services NiSource Corporate Services Company Abbreviations ACE Affordable clean energy AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AMR Automatic meter reading AMRP Accelerated Main Replacement Program AMT Alternative Minimum Tax AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update ATM At-the-market Board Board of Directors BTA Build-transfer agreement CAP Compliance Assurance Process CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCRs Coal Combustion Residuals CEP Capital Expenditure Program CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (also known as Superfund) DPA Deferred prosecution agreement DPU Department of Public Utilities DSIC Distribution System Investment Charge DSM Demand Side Management ECT Environmental Cost Tracker EERM Environmental Expense Recovery Mechanism ELG Effluent Limitation Guidelines EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency EPS Earnings per share FAC Fuel adjustment clause FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board 3 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FMCA Federally Mandated Cost Adjustment GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GCA Gas cost adjustment GCR Gas cost recovery GHG Greenhouse gas GSEP Gas System Enhancement Program GWh Gigawatt hours IRIS Infrastructure Replacement and Improvement Surcharge IRP Infrastructure Replacement Program IRS Internal Revenue Service IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission LDCs Local distribution companies LIBOR London inter-bank offered rate LIFO Last-in, first-out MA DOR Massachusetts Department of Revenue Massachusetts Business All of the assets being sold to, and liabilities being assumed by, Eversource pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement MGP Manufactured Gas Plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator MMDth Million dekatherms MW Megawatts MWh Megawatt hours NOL Net Operating Loss NTSB National Transportation Safety Board NYMEX The New York Mercantile Exchange NYSE The New York Stock Exchange OPEB Other Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls PHMSA U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PISCC Post-in-service carrying charges PPA Power Purchase Agreement PSC Public Service Commission PTC Production Tax Credits PUC Public Utility Commission PUCO Public Utilities Commission of Ohio RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ROU Right of use SAB Staff accounting bulletin SAVE Steps to Advance Virginia's Energy Plan Separation The separation of our natural gas pipeline, midstream and storage business from our natural gas and electric utility business accomplished through a pro rata distribution to holders of our outstanding common stock of all the outstanding shares of common stock of CPG. The separation was completed on July 1, 2015. SEC Securities and Exchange Commission 4 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS SMRP Safety Modification and Replacement Program STRIDE Strategic Infrastructure Development and Enhancement Sugar Creek Sugar Creek electric generating plant TCJA Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TDSIC Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge U.S. Attorney's Office U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts VSCC Virginia State Corporation Commission WCE Whiting Clean Energy Note regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Investors and prospective investors should understand that many factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will be or can be realized. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our plans, strategies, objectives, expected performance, expenditures, recovery of expenditures through rates, stated on either a consolidated or segment basis, and any and all underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical fact. All forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, forecasts, estimates and expectations discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, among other things, our debt obligations; any changes to our credit rating or the credit rating of certain of our subsidiaries; our ability to execute our growth strategy; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; pension funding obligations; economic regulation and the impact of regulatory rate reviews; our ability to obtain expected financial or regulatory outcomes; our ability to adapt to, and manage costs related to, advances in technology; any changes in our assumptions regarding the financial implications of the Greater Lawrence Incident; compliance with the agreements entered into with the U.S. Attorney s Office to settle the U.S. Attorney s Office s investigation relating to the Greater Lawrence Incident; the pending sale of the Columbia of Massachusetts business, including the terms and closing conditions under the Asset Purchase Agreement; potential incidents and other operating risks associated with our business; our ability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage and whether such coverage will protect us against significant losses; the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, incidents, claims and litigation; any damage to our reputation, including in connection with the Greater Lawrence Incident; compliance with applicable laws, regulations and tariffs; compliance with environmental laws and the costs of associated liabilities; fluctuations in demand from residential and commercial customers; economic conditions of certain industries; the success of NIPSCO's electric generation strategy; the price of energy commodities and related transportation costs; the reliability of customers and suppliers to fulfill their payment and contractual obligations; potential impairments of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets; changes in taxation and accounting principles; the impact of an aging infrastructure; the impact of climate change; potential cyber-attacks; construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks; extreme weather conditions; the attraction and retention of a qualified workforce; the ability of our subsidiaries to generate cash; our ability to manage new initiatives and organizational changes; the performance of third-party suppliers and service providers; changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the potential replacement of the LIBOR benchmark interest rate; and other matters set forth in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this report, many of which risks are beyond our control. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each business segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing cautionary statements. We undertake no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any such obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or changes to the future results over time or otherwise, except as required by law. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . NiSource Inc. is an energy holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 whose subsidiaries are fully regulated natural gas and electric utility companies serving approximately 4.0 million customers in seven states. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource on April 14, 1999. NiSource is one of the nation s largest natural gas distribution companies, as measured by number of customers. NiSource s principal subsidiaries include NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., a natural gas distribution holding company, and NIPSCO, a gas and electric company. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of these rate-regulated businesses. On September 13, 2018, a series of fires and explosions occurred in Lawrence, Andover and North Andover, Massachusetts related to the delivery of natural gas by Columbia of Massachusetts (referred to herein as the Greater Lawrence Incident ). The Greater Lawrence Incident resulted in one fatality and a number of injuries, damaged multiple homes and businesses, and caused the temporary evacuation of significant portions of each municipality. The Massachusetts Governor s Office declared a state of emergency, authorizing the Massachusetts DPU to order another utility company to coordinate the restoration of utility services in Lawrence, Andover and North Andover. The incident resulted in the interruption of gas for approximately 7,500 gas meters, the majority of which served residences and approximately 700 of which served businesses, and the interruption of other utility service more broadly in the area. Columbia of Massachusetts has replaced the cast iron and bare steel gas pipeline system in the affected area and restored service to nearly all of the gas meters. Refer to Note 6, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," Note 19 -C. "Legal Proceedings," and E. "Other Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. On February 26, 2020, NiSource and Columbia of Massachusetts (together with NiSource, Seller ) entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Asset Purchase Agreement") with Eversource, a Massachusetts voluntary association. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement, NiSource and Columbia of Massachusetts agreed to sell to Eversource, with certain additions and exceptions: (1) substantially all of the assets of Columbia of Massachusetts and (2) all of the assets held by any of Columbia of Massachusetts affiliates that primarily relate to the business of storing, distributing or transporting natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers in Massachusetts, as conducted by Columbia of Massachusetts, and Eversource agreed to assume certain liabilities of Columbia of Massachusetts and its affiliates. The liabilities assumed by Eversource under the Asset Purchase Agreement do not include, among others, any liabilities arising out the Greater Lawrence Incident or liabilities of Columbia of Massachusetts or its affiliates pursuant to civil claims for injury of persons or damage to property to the extent such injury or damage occurs prior to the closing in connection with the Massachusetts Business. The Asset Purchase Agreement provides for a purchase price of $1,100 million in cash, subject to adjustment based on Columbia of Massachusetts net working capital as of the closing. The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Asset Purchase Agreement is subject to Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and regulatory approvals, resolution of certain proceedings before governmental bodies and other conditions. For additional information, see Note 26 , Subsequent Event, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. NiSource s reportable segments are: Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations. The following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 23 , "Segments of Business," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information for each segment. Gas Distribution Operations Our natural gas distribution operations serve approximately 3.5 million customers in seven states and operate approximately 60,000 miles of pipeline located in our service areas described below. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., we own six distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to approximately 2.7 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, Maryland and Massachusetts. Additionally, we distribute natural gas to approximately 839,000 customers in northern Indiana through our wholly-owned subsidiary NIPSCO. Electric Operations We generate, transmit and distribute electricity through our subsidiary NIPSCO to approximately 476,000 customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and engage in wholesale and transmission transactions. NIPSCO owns and operates two coal-fired electric generating stations: four units at R.M. Schahfer located in Wheatfield, IN and one unit at Michigan City located in Michigan City, IN. The two operating facilities have a generating capacity of 2,080 MW. NIPSCO also owns and operates Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant located in West Terre Haute, IN with generating capacity of 571 MW, three gas-fired generating units located at NIPSCO s coal-fired electric generating stations with a generating capacity of 186 MW and two hydroelectric generating plants with a generating capacity of 10 MW: Oakdale located at Lake Freeman in Carroll County, IN and Norway located at Lake Schahfer in White County, IN. These facilities provide for a total system operating generating capacity of 2,847 MW. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . In May 2018, NIPSCO completed the retirement of two coal-burning units (Units 7 and 8) at Bailly Generating Station, located in Chesterton, IN. These units had a generating capacity of approximately 460 MW. NIPSCO s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 765,000 volts, consists of 3,005 circuit miles. NIPSCO is interconnected with five neighboring electric utilities. During the year ended December 31, 2019, NIPSCO generated 62.4% and purchased 37.6% of its electric requirements. NIPSCO participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, MISO is responsible for managing energy markets, transmission constraints and the day-ahead, real-time, FTR and ancillary markets. NIPSCO transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to MISO, and transmission service for NIPSCO occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff. Business Strategy We focus our business strategy on our core, rate-regulated asset-based businesses with most of our operating income generated from the rate-regulated businesses. Our utilities continue to move forward on core infrastructure and environmental investment programs supported by complementary regulatory and customer initiatives across all seven states in which we operate. Our goal is to develop strategies that benefit all stakeholders as we address changing customer conservation patterns, develop more contemporary pricing structures, and embark on long-term investment programs. These strategies are intended to improve reliability and safety, enhance customer service and reduce emissions while generating sustainable returns. In its 2018 Integrated Resource Plan submission to the IURC, NIPSCO laid out a plan to retire the R.M. Schahfer Generating Station (Units 14, 15, 17, and 18) by 2023 and Michigan City Generating Station (Unit 12) by 2028. These units represent 2,080 MW of generating capacity, equal to 72% of NIPSCO s remaining capacity after the retirement of Bailly Units 7 and 8 in May of 2018. The current replacement plan includes renewable sources of energy, including wind, solar, and battery storage to be obtained through a combination of NIPSCO ownership and PPAs. Refer to Note 19 -E, "Other Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these plans. Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment The regulatory frameworks applicable to our operations, at both the state and federal levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on our operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this environment. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non-traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include the sale of products and services upstream of the companies service territory, the sale of products and services in the companies service territories, and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on-system services are offered by us to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such situations as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and their ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges with their customers. Increased efficiency of natural gas appliances and improvements in home building codes and standards has contributed to a long-term trend of declining average use per customer. Residential usage for the year ended December 31, 2019 decreased primarily due to warmer weather in our operating area compared to the prior year. While historically rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput rather than in a fixed charge, operating costs are largely incurred on a fixed basis and do not fluctuate due to changes in customer usage. As a result, Gas Distribution Operations have pursued changes in rate design to more effectively match recoveries with costs incurred. Each of the states in which Gas Distribution Operations operate has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing changes to rate design. Columbia of Ohio restructured its rate design through a base rate proceeding and has adopted a decoupled rate design which more closely links the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Columbia of Massachusetts received regulatory approval of a decoupling mechanism which adjusts revenues to an approved benchmark level through a volumetric adjustment factor. Columbia of Maryland and Columbia of Virginia have regulatory approval for a revenue normalization adjustment for certain customer classes, a decoupling mechanism whereby monthly revenues that exceed or fall short of approved levels are reconciled in subsequent months. In a prior base rate proceeding, Columbia of Pennsylvania implemented a pilot residential weather normalization adjustment. Columbia of Maryland, Columbia of Virginia and Columbia of Kentucky have had approval for a weather normalization adjustment 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . for many years. In a prior gas base rate proceeding, NIPSCO implemented a higher fixed customer charge for residential and small customer classes moving toward full straight fixed variable rate design. Natural Gas Competition . Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the commodity price of gas has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC customers and marketers can purchase gas directly from producers and marketers as an open, competitive market for gas supplies has emerged. This separation or unbundling of the transportation and other services offered by pipelines and LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by the pipelines and LDCs. The LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from their customers. Our Gas Distribution Operations subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use our Gas Distribution Operations subsidiaries for transportation services. Gas Distribution Operations competes with investor-owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service areas as well as other regulated and unregulated natural gas intra and interstate pipelines and other alternate fuels, such as propane and fuel oil. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity has traditionally been the strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia due to comparatively low electric rates. Natural gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the Massachusetts market mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane-based heating which has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market over the last few years. However, fuel oil and propane are more viable in today s oil market. Electric Competition . Indiana electric utilities generally have exclusive service areas under Indiana regulations, and retail electric customers in Indiana do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier. NIPSCO faces non-utility competition from other energy sources, such as self-generation by large industrial customers and other distributed energy sources. Seasonality A significant portion of our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, revenues from gas sales are more significant, and during the cooling season, which is primarily June through September, revenues from electric sales are more significant, than in other months. Other Relevant Business Information Our customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a significant portion of revenues. As of December 31, 2019, we had 8,363 employees of whom 3,219 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Collective bargaining agreements for 96 employees are set to expire within one year. For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21. We electronically file various reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, as well as our proxy statements for the Company's annual meetings of stockholders at http://www.sec.gov . Additionally, we make all SEC filings available without charge to the public on our web site at http://www.nisource.com . 8 Table of Contents