Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 33 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Reserved 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 120 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 120 Item 9B. Other Information 122 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 122 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 123 Item 11. Executive Compensation 123 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 123 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 123 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 123 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 124 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 130 Signatures 131 2 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS The following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this report: NiSource Subsidiaries and Affiliates (not exhaustive) Columbia of Kentucky Columbia Gas of Kentucky, Inc. Columbia of Maryland Columbia Gas of Maryland, Inc. Columbia of Massachusetts Bay State Gas Company Columbia of Ohio Columbia Gas of Ohio, Inc. Columbia of Pennsylvania Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania, Inc. Columbia of Virginia Columbia Gas of Virginia, Inc. NIPSCO Northern Indiana Public Service Company LLC NIPSCO Holdings I NIPSCO Holdings I LLC NIPSCO Holdings II NIPSCO Holdings II LLC NiSource ("we," "us" or "our") NiSource Inc. Rosewater Rosewater Wind Generation LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Rosewater Wind Farm LLC Indiana Crossroads Solar Indiana Crossroads Solar Generation LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Meadow Lake Solar Park LLC Indiana Crossroads Wind Indiana Crossroads Wind Generation LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Indiana Crossroads Wind Farm LLC Dunns Bridge I Dunns Bridge I Solar Generation LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Dunns Bridge Solar Center LLC Dunns Bridge II Dunns Bridge II Solar Generation LLC Fairbanks Fairbanks Solar Generation LLC Cavalry Cavalry Solar Generation LLC Abbreviations and Other AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update ATM At-the-market BIP BIP Blue Buyer L.L.C Blackstone Blackstone Infrastructure Partners L.P. BTA Build-transfer agreement CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCRs Coal Combustion Residuals CEP Capital Expenditure Program CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (also known as Superfund) CISA Certified Information Systems Auditor CISO Chief Information Security Officer CISSP Certified Information Systems Security Professional Corporate Units Series A Corporate Units COVID-19 ("the COVID-19 pandemic" or "the pandemic") Novel Coronavirus 2019 and its variants, including the Delta and Omicron variants, and any other variant that may emerge CRISC Certified in Risk and Information Systems Control DE I Diversity Equity and Inclusion DPU Department of Public Utilities DSM Demand Side Management 3 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency EPS Earnings per share Equity Units Series A Equity Units FAC Fuel adjustment clause FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FMCA Federally Mandated Cost Adjustment GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GCA Gas cost adjustment GHG Greenhouse gases HLBV Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value IIJA Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act IRA Inflation Reduction Act IRP Infrastructure Replacement Program IRS Internal Revenue Service IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission JV Joint Venture LDCs Local distribution companies LIFO Last-in, first-out LIHEAP Low Income Heating Energy Assistance Programs Massachusetts Business All of the assets sold to, and liabilities assumed by, Eversource pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement MGP Manufactured Gas Plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator MMDth Million dekatherms MW Megawatts MWh Megawatt hours NERC CIP North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection NIPSCO Minority Interest Transaction A transaction between NiSource, NIPSCO Holdings II (sole owner of NIPSCO) and an affiliate of Blackstone pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement entered into on June 17, 2023, that offered equity interests in NIPSCO Holdings II in exchange for capital contributions by the parties. NOL Net Operating Loss NTSB National Transportation Safety Board NYMEX The New York Mercantile Exchange OPEB Other Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits OT Operational Technology PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PPA Power Purchase Agreement PSC Public Service Commission PUCO Public Utilities Commission of Ohio ROE Return on Equity RNG Renewable Natural Gas ROU Right of Use SAVE Steps to Advance Virginia's Energy Plan 4 Table of Contents DEFINED TERMS Scope 1 GHG Emissions Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by us (e.g., emissions from our combustion of fuel, vehicles, and process emissions and fugitive emissions) Scope 2 GHG Emissions Indirect emissions from sources owned or controlled by us SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Section 201 Tariffs Tariffs imposed by Executive Order from the President of the U.S. on certain imported solar cells and modules at a rate of 15%, which were recently extended to 2026 SMRP Safety Modification and Replacement Program SMS Safety Management System SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate STRIDE Strategic Infrastructure Development and Enhancement TCJA An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017) TDSIC Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge TSA Transportation Security Administration U.S. Attorney's Office U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts VIE Variable Interest Entity Note regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements," within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Investors and prospective investors should understand that many factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will be or can be realized. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our plans, strategies, objectives, expected performance, expenditures, recovery of expenditures through rates, stated on either a consolidated or segment basis, and any and all underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical fact. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "would," "aims," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," "forecast," and "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, forecasts, estimates and expectations discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, among other things: our ability to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments; potential incidents and other operating risks associated with our business; our ability to work successfully with our third-party investors; our ability to adapt to, and manage costs related to, advances in technology, including alternative energy sources and changes in laws and regulations; our increased dependency on technology; impacts related to our aging infrastructure; our ability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage and whether such coverage will protect us against significant losses; the success of our electric generation strategy; construction risks and supply risks; fluctuations in demand from residential and commercial customers; fluctuations in the price of energy commodities and related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demand; our ability to attract, retain or re-skill a qualified, diverse workforce and maintain good labor relations; our ability to manage new initiatives and organizational changes; 5 Table of Contents the actions of activist stockholders; the performance and quality of third-party suppliers and service providers; potential cybersecurity attacks or security breaches; increased requirements and costs related to cybersecurity; any damage to our reputation; the impacts of natural disasters, potential terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events; the physical impacts of climate change and the transition to a lower carbon future; our ability to manage the financial and operational risks related to achieving our carbon emission reduction goals, including our Net Zero Goal (as defined below); our debt obligations; any changes to our credit rating or the credit rating of certain of our subsidiaries; adverse economic and capital market conditions, including increases in inflation or interest rates, recession, or changes in investor sentiment; economic regulation and the impact of regulatory rate reviews; our ability to obtain expected financial or regulatory outcomes; economic conditions in certain industries; the reliability of customers and suppliers to fulfill their payment and contractual obligations; the ability of our subsidiaries to generate cash; pension funding obligations; potential impairments of goodwill; the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, incidents, claims and litigation; compliance with changes in, or new interpretations of applicable laws, regulations and tariffs; the cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and the costs of associated liabilities; changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof; and other matters set forth in Item 1, "Business," Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7, "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of this report, some of which risks are beyond our control. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each business segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing cautionary statements. We undertake no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any such obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or changes to the future results over time or otherwise, except as required by law. 6 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . NiSource Inc. is an energy holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 whose primary subsidiaries are fully regulated natural gas and electric utility companies, serving approximately 3.8 million customers in six states. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource Inc. on April 14, 1999. On November 7, 2022, we announced our intention to seek a minority interest investor in NIPSCO. We entered into an agreement with Blackstone on June 17, 2023, in furtherance of this goal. On December 31, 2023, the NIPSCO Minority Interest Transaction closed. At closing, NIPSCO Holdings I contributed all its membership interests in NIPSCO in exchange for an 80.1% controlling membership interest and Blackstone contributed $2.16 billion in cash in exchange for a 19.9% membership interest in NIPSCO Holdings II, respectively. NIPSCO Holdings II owns all the membership interests in NIPSCO. NiSource s principal subsidiaries include NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc. (a holding company that owns Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Maryland, Columbia of Ohio, Columbia of Pennsylvania, and Columbia of Virginia), and a controlling interest in NIPSCO (a gas and electric company). NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of these rate-regulated businesses. Business Strategy Our business strategy focuses on providing safe and reliable service through our core, rate-regulated, asset-based utilities, with the goal of adding value to all of our stakeholders. Our utilities continue to advance our core safety, infrastructure and environmental investment programs supported by complementary regulatory and customer initiatives across the six states in which we operate. Our goal is to develop strategies that (i) support long-term infrastructure investment and safety programs to better serve our customers, (ii) align our tariff structures with our cost structure, and (iii) drive value and enable growth in an evolving energy ecosystem. These strategies focus on improving safety and reliability, enhancing customer experience, pursuing regulatory and legislative initiatives to increase accessibility for customers currently not on our gas and electric service, ensuring customer affordability and reducing emissions while generating sustainable returns. We remain committed to the advancement of our SMS for the safety of our customers, communities and employees. Our SMS is the established operating model within NiSource. In 2022, we achieved conformance certification to the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1173, which serves as the guiding practice for our SMS. This certification, which requires ongoing annual review, marked an important milestone for our SMS and NiSource s journey towards operational excellence. Our focus is maintaining, sustaining and continuously improving processes, procedures, capabilities and talent to enhance safety and reduce operational risk. NiSource has two reportable segments: Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations. The remainder of our operations, which are not significant enough on a stand-alone basis to warrant treatment as an operating segment, are included as Corporate and Other. The activities occurring within this non-segment consist of our centralized corporate activities and are primarily comprised of interest expense on holding company debt and unallocated corporate costs and activities. The following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 21, "Business Segment Information," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to each segment. Gas Distribution Operations Our natural gas distribution operations serve approximately 3.3 million customers in six states. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., we provide natural gas to approximately 2.4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, and Maryland. Additionally, we distribute natural gas to approximately 0.9 million customers in northern Indiana through our subsidiary NIPSCO. We operate approximately 55,000 miles of distribution main pipeline plus the associated individual customer service lines and 1,000 miles of transmission main pipeline located in our service areas described below. Throughout our service areas we also have gate stations and other operations support facilities. See below for information on our owned operating facilities. There were no significant disruptions to our system or facilities during 2023. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . Facility Name Location Type Storage Capacity (MCF) Royal Center Underground Storage Royal Center, IN Natural Gas 7,240,000 Rolling Prairie LNG Rolling Prairie, IN Liquified Natural Gas 4,000,000 Blackhawk Underground Storage Beaver Falls, PA Natural Gas 1,700,000 Eagle Cove Propane Petersburgh, VA Propane Gas 863 South Wales Propane Jeffersonton, VA Propane Gas 863 Portsmouth Propane-Air Portsmouth, VA Propane-Air Gas 17,300 Total Capacities 12,959,026 Competition. Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the natural gas supply has led to tremendous change in the energy markets and natural gas competition. Due to open access to natural gas supplies, our LDC customers can purchase gas directly from producers and marketers in an open, competitive market. Certain of our Gas Distribution Operations subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide our residential and commercial customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use our Gas Distribution Operations subsidiaries for transportation services. As of December 31, 2023, 25.9% of our residential customers and 34.7% of our commercial customers participated in such programs. Gas Distribution Operations competes with (i) investor-owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service areas, (ii) other regulated and unregulated natural gas intra and interstate pipelines and (iii) other alternate fuels, such as propane and fuel oil. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy markets in which it operates as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity has traditionally been the strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia due to comparatively low electric rates. Additionally, our gas distribution operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales. Revenues from gas distribution operations are more significant during the heating season, which is primarily from November through March. Please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results and Discussion of Operations - Gas Distribution Operations," for additional information. Electric Operations We generate, transmit and distribute electricity through our subsidiary NIPSCO to approximately 0.5 million customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and also engage in wholesale electric and transmission transactions. We own and operate sources of generation as well as source power through PPAs. We continue to transition our generation portfolio to primarily renewable sources. We currently have four owned projects in service: Rosewater, Indiana Crossroads Wind, Indiana Crossroads Solar, and Dunns Bridge I. Rosewater went into service in December 2020 and Indiana Crossroads Wind went into service in December 2021. The Indiana Crossroads Solar and Dunns Bridge I Solar projects went into service in June 2023. In October 2021, NIPSCO completed the retirement of two coal-burning units with installed capacity of approximately 903 MW at Schahfer Generating Station, located in Wheatfield, IN. As of December 31, 2023, we have multiple PPAs that provide 700 MW of capacity, with contracts expiring between 2024 and 2040. NIPSCO s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 765,000 volts, consists of approximately 2,920 circuit miles. NIPSCO is interconnected with eight neighboring electric utilities.We operate 66 transmission and 250 distribution substations, and own approximately 311,000 poles. Additionally, we own and operate reactive resources to supplement generation when necessary. Our facilities had no material unplanned interruptions during 2023. See below for information on our owned operating facilities: 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . Facility Name Location Fuel Type Generating Capacity (MW) (1) R.M. Schahfer Wheatfield, IN Steam - Coal 722 Michigan City Michigan City, IN Steam - Coal 455 Sugar Creek (2) West Terre Haute, IN CCGT 563 R.M. Schahfer Wheatfield, IN Natural Gas 155 Oakdale Carroll County, IN Hydro 9 Norway White County, IN Hydro 7 Rosewater (3) White County, IN Wind 102 Indiana Crossroads Wind (3) White County, IN Wind 302 Dunns Bridge I (3) Jasper County, IN Solar 265 Indiana Crossroads Solar (3) White County, IN Solar 200 Total MW Capacity 2,780 (1) Represents current net generating capability of each fossil fuel and hydro generating facility. Nameplate capacity is listed for wind and solar generating facilities. (2) Sugar Creek added additional generating capacity in January 2024. (3) NIPSCO is the managing partner of these JVs. Refer to Note 4, "Noncontrolling Interest," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. In November 2021, NIPSCO submitted its 2021 Integrated Resource Plan ("2021 Plan") with the IURC. The 2021 Plan builds upon the 2018 Integrated Resource Plan which outlined NIPSCO s plan to retire its coal generating assets by 2028. The 2021 Plan affirmed the 2018 retirement decisions and calls for the replacement of the retiring coal generating assets with a diverse portfolio of resources, including demand side management resources, incremental solar, stand-alone energy storage, new gas peaking resources and upgrades to existing facilities at the Sugar Creek Generating Station, among other steps. Refer to Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of these plans. NIPSCO participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, MISO is responsible for managing energy markets, transmission constraints and the day-ahead, real-time, Financial Transmission Rights and ancillary markets. NIPSCO has transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to MISO, and transmission service for NIPSCO occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff. NIPSCO generating units are dispatched by MISO which takes into account economics, reliability of the MISO system and unit availability. During the year ended December 31, 2023, NIPSCO generating units, inclusive of its BTA projects, were dispatched to meet 49.5% of its overall system load, and the remainder of the overall system load was procured through PPAs and the MISO market. Competition. Our electric utility generally has exclusive service areas under Indiana regulations, and retail electric customers in Indiana do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier. NIPSCO faces non-utility competition from other energy sources, such as self-generation by large industrial customers and other distributed energy sources. Our electric operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales. Revenues from electric operations are more significant during the cooling season, which is primarily from June through September. Please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results and Discussion of Operations - Electric Operations," for additional information. Political Action The NiSource Political Action Committee ("NiPAC") provides our employees a voice in the political process. NiPAC is a voluntary, employee and director driven and funded political action committee, and NiPAC makes bipartisan political contributions to local, state and federal candidates where permitted and in accordance with established guidelines. Consistent with our commitments and our approach to engagement, the NiPAC leadership committee members evaluate candidates for support on issues important to our business. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . Regulatory The applicable regulatory landscape at both the state and federal levels continue to evolve, including environmental. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on our operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this environment, while keeping service and affordability for customers at the forefront. We believe we are, in all material respects, in compliance with such laws and regulations and do not expect future compliance changes to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We continue to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations, and the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty. Rate Case Actions. The following table describes current rate case actions as applicable in each of our jurisdictions net of tracker impacts. See "Cost Recovery and Trackers" below for further detail on trackers. (in millions) Company Approved ROE Requested Incremental Revenue Approved Incremental Revenue Filing Date Rates Effective Approved Rates Cases Columbia of Pennsylvania (1) None specified $ 82.2 $ 44.5 March 18, 2022 December 2022 Columbia of Maryland (1) None specified $ 6.5 $ 3.9 May 12, 2023 December 2023 Columbia of Kentucky (2) 9.35 % $ 26.7 $ 18.3 May 28, 2021 January 2022 Columbia of Virginia (3) None specified $ 40.5 $ 25.8 April 29, 2022 October 2022 Columbia of Ohio 9.60 % $ 221.4 $ 68.3 June 30, 2021 March 2023 NIPSCO - Gas (4) 9.85 % $ 109.7 $ 71.8 September 29, 2021 September 2022 NIPSCO - Electric (5) 9.80 % $ 291.8 $ 261.9 September 19, 2022 August 2023 Pending Rate Cases NIPSCO - Gas (6) In process $ 161.9 In process October 25, 2023 September 2024 (1) No approved ROE is identified for this matter since the approved revenue increase is the result of a black box settlement under which parties agree upon the amount of increase. (2) The approved ROE for natural gas capital riders ( e.g .,SMRP) is 9.275%. (3) Columbia of Virginia's rate case resulted in a black box settlement, representing a settlement to a specific revenue increase but not a specified ROE. The settlement provides use of a 9.70% ROE for future SAVE filings. (4) New rates were implemented in 2 steps, with implementation of Step 1 rates in September 2022. The Step 2 rates were filed on February 21, 2023, with rates effective March 2023. (5) New rates will be implemented in 2 steps, with implementation of Step 1 rates in August 2023 and Step 2 Rates to be effective in March 2024, with service provided in February 2024. (6) Pending the outcome of the current case, new rates are expected to be implemented in 2 steps, with implementation of Step 1 rates to be effective in September 2024 and Step 2 Rates in March 2025. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS N I S OURCE I NC . FERC. NiSource s service company and operating companies are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FERC. NiSource Corporate Services files a FERC Form 60 annual report with its financial information as a FERC jurisdictional centralized service company. NiSource also files an annual FERC Form 61 which contains a narrative description of the service company's functions during the prior calendar year. As natural gas LDCs, Columbia of Maryland, Columbia of Ohio, Columbia of Pennsylvania, Columbia of Virginia, and NIPSCO have limited jurisdictional certificates to transport gas in the respective service territories into interstate commerce. As an electric company, NIPSCO has Market Based Rate authority and is a Transmission Owner subject to FERC jurisdiction. NIPSCO files the following reports annually: FERC Form 1, which is a comprehensive financial and operating report, FERC Form 566, which is a list of its 20 largest purchases of electricity over the past three years, FERC Form 715, which is its Annual Transmission Planning and Evaluation Report and the base case power flow data from the Eastern Interconnection Reliability Assessment Group Multiregional Modeling Working Group, which was used by NIPSCO for transmission planning and, FERC Form 730, which is NIPSCO s Report of Transmission Investment Activity. As a Transmission Owner subject to the MISO Transmission Owners Agreement and Tariff, NIPSCO has various FERC jurisdictional obligations such as maintaining its Attachment O formula rates and corresponding protocols. NIPSCO also has FERC approvals to make affiliate transactions between itself and various JVs. NIPSCO s officers, on the electric side, are also subject to FERC s interlocking directorate rules and reporting requirements. Regulatory Framework. The Gas Distribution Operations utilities have pursued non-traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include (i) the sale of products and services in the companies service territories, and (ii) gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The on-system services are offered by us to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations utility's system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations utilities an opportunity to sha