Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 22 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Overview 29 Consolidated Operating Results 31 Segment Operating Results 34 Product and Service Analysis 38 Backlog 39 Liquidity and Capital Resources 39 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 47 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 48 Consolidated Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income 51 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 52 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 53 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity 54 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 55 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 55 2. Dispositions 63 3. Earnings Per Share, Share Repurchases and Dividends on Common Stock 63 4. Accounts Receivable, Net 65 5. Unbilled Receivables, Net 65 6. Inventoried Costs, Net 66 7. Income Taxes 66 8. Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangible Assets 70 9. Fair Value of Financial Instruments 70 10. Debt 71 11. Investigations, Claims and Litigation 73 12. Commitments and Contingencies 73 13. Retirement Benefits 74 14. Stock Compensation Plans and Other Compensation Arrangements 80 15. Leases 82 i Page 16. Segment Information 83 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Item 9B. Other Information 89 Certain Trading Agreements 89 Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 89 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 90 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 91 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 94 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 101 Signatures 102 ii NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION PART I Item 1. Business HISTORY AND ORGANIZATION History Northrop Grumman Corporation (herein referred to as Northrop Grumman, the company, we, us, or our ) is a leading global aerospace and defense technology company. We deliver a broad range of products, services and solutions to U.S. and international customers, and principally to the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and intelligence community. Our broad portfolio is aligned to support national security priorities and our solutions equip our customers with capabilities they need to connect, protect and advance humanity. The company is a leading provider of space systems, military aircraft, missile defense, advanced weapons and long-range fires capabilities, mission systems, networking and communications, strategic deterrence systems, and breakthrough technologies, such as advanced computing, microelectronics and cyber. We are focused on competing and winning programs that enable continued growth, performing on our commitments and affordably delivering capability our customers need. With the investments we've made in advanced technologies, combined with our talented workforce and digital transformation capabilities, Northrop Grumman is well positioned to meet our customers' needs today and in the future. For a discussion of risks associated with our operations, see Risk Factors. The company originally was formed in 1939 in Hawthorne, California as Northrop Aircraft Incorporated and was reincorporated in Delaware in 1985, as Northrop Corporation. Northrop Corporation was a principal developer of flying wing technology, including the B-2 Spirit stealth aircraft. We developed into one of the largest defense technology companies in the world through a series of acquisitions, as well as organic growth, including the following: 1994 - Acquired Grumman Corporation, a premier military aircraft systems integrator. The combined company was renamed Northrop Grumman Corporation; 1996 - Acquired the defense and electronics businesses of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, developer of sophisticated radar and other electronics systems; 2001 - Acquired Litton Industries, Inc., a global electronics and information technology company and full service shipbuilder; 2001 - Acquired Newport News Shipbuilding Inc., designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and submarines; 2002 - Acquired TRW Inc., developer of military and civil space systems and payloads, and integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services; 2011 - Completed the spin-off of Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc., operator of our former shipbuilding business, comprised largely of a part of Litton Industries and Newport News Shipbuilding; 2018 - Acquired Orbital ATK, Inc. (OATK), developer and producer of satellites and other space systems, launch vehicles and missile products; and 2021 - Completed the sale of our IT and mission support services business (the IT services divestiture ) to Veritas Capital. Organization From time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses and realign contracts, programs or businesses among and within our operating segments. Internal realignments are typically designed to leverage existing capabilities more fully and to enhance efficient development and delivery of products and services. At December 31, 2023, the company was aligned in four operating sectors, which also comprise our reportable segments: Aeronautics Systems, Defense Systems, Mission Systems and Space Systems. AERONAUTICS SYSTEMS Aeronautics Systems is a leader in the design, development, production, integration, sustainment and modernization of military aircraft systems for the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Navy, other U.S. government agencies, and international customers. Major products include strategic long-range strike aircraft; tactical fighter and air dominance aircraft; airborne battle management and command and control systems; and unmanned autonomous aircraft systems, including high-altitude long-endurance (HALE) strategic intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) -1- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION systems and vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) tactical ISR systems. Approximately 45 percent of this business is performed through restricted programs. Key programs include: Development and production of the U.S. Air Force B-21 Raider long-range strike aircraft that defines sixth-generation technologies; Modernization and sustainment services for the B-2 Spirit stealth aircraft; Fuselage production for the F/A-18 Super Hornet and the F-35 Lighting II Joint Strike Fighter for use by U.S. and international forces; E-2D Advanced Hawkeye battle management aircraft production for the U.S. Navy, Japan, and France; MQ-4C Triton, which provides wide area strategic ISR over vast ocean and coastal regions for maritime domain awareness to the U.S. Navy and Australia; RQ-4 Global Hawk, which provides high resolution imagery of land masses for theater awareness and strategic ISR to the U.S. Air Force, Japan, and the Republic of Korea; North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Alliance Ground Surveillance (AGS), a Global Hawk variant, for strategic ISR missions conducted in multinational theater operations; and MQ-8C Fire Scout, ship-based, VTOL tactical ISR systems that provide situational awareness and precision targeting for the U.S. Navy. DEFENSE SYSTEMS Defense Systems is a leader in the design, development, integration and production of advanced tactical weapons and missile defense solutions, and a provider of sustainment, modernization and training services for manned and unmanned aircraft and electronics systems for the U.S. military and a broad range of international customers. Major products and services include integrated, all-domain command and control (C2) battle management systems, precision strike weapons; advanced propulsion, including high speed air-breathing and hypersonic systems; high-performance gun systems, ammunition, precision munitions and advanced fuzes; aircraft and mission systems logistics support, sustainment, operations and modernization; and warfighter training. Less than 5 percent of this business is performed through restricted programs. Key programs include: Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System (IBCS) for the U.S. Army and Poland, which is an open architecture system that seamlessly integrates sensors and effectors to deliver among the most advanced C2 systems for joint and coalition forces; Medium (30mm and 20mm) and Large (120mm) caliber tactical and training ammunition production; Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System (GMLRS) propulsion and warhead subsystems for a surface-to-surface system used to defeat targets using indirect precision fires; U.S. Navy s Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile (AARGM), a medium-range, air-to-surface missile, and its extended range variant, AARGM-ER; U.S. Air Force s Stand-In Attack Weapon (SiAW), an advanced capability air-to-surface tactical missile for the F-35; Hypersonic Attack Cruise Missile (HACM) air-breathing, scramjet propulsion subsystem for the hypersonic air-launched cruise missile to travel at speeds of Mach 5 or greater; Global system sustainment and operations support for the F-35, B-2, P-3 Orion, E-6B Mercury, KC-30A multi-role tanker, C-27J transport, NATO AGS, Triton and restricted programs; Precision Guidance Kit (PGK), replaces conventional fuzes for artillery and mortar munitions and transforms them into Global Positioning System enabled precision guided weapons; Forward Area Air Defense Command and Control (FAAD C2), the Army s long-standing program of record for short range air defense and Counter Rocket, Artillery and Mortar (C-RAM), as well as the interim C2 for Counter Unmanned Aircraft Systems (C-UAS); AAQ-24 sensor sustainment and repair for U.S. military customers; Special Electronics Mission Aircraft (SEMA) ISR support; and Distributed Mission Operations Network (DMON), a live, virtual, constructive, and synthetic simulation program for global training and exercises. -2- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION MISSION SYSTEMS Mission Systems is a leader in advanced mission solutions and multifunction systems, primarily for the U.S. defense and intelligence community, and international customers. Major products and services include command, control, communications and computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems; radar, electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) and acoustic sensors; electronic warfare systems; advanced communications and network systems; full spectrum cyber solutions; intelligence processing systems; advanced microelectronics; navigation and positioning sensors; and maritime power, propulsion and payload launch systems. Approximately 30 percent of this business is performed through restricted programs. Key unrestricted programs include: Scalable Agile Beam Radar (SABR), an active electronically scanned array fire control radar system for F-16 aircraft; F-35 fire control radar and Distributed Aperture System (DAS), which provides 360 degree field of view tracking, identifying, missile warning and night vision capabilities; F-35 Communications, Navigation and Identification (CNI) integrated avionics system, which provides secure communications and interoperability capabilities; Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR), a mobile multi-mode active electronically scanned array; Surface Electronic Warfare Improvement Program (SEWIP) Block III, which protects surface ships from anti-ship missiles, provides early detection, signal analysis and threat warning; Airborne Early Warning Control (AEW C). The centerpiece of the E-7 AEW C aircraft is the Multi-role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar which enables 360 degree long range advanced air moving target indicator (AMTI) capabilities for Battle Management, Command and Control, and Maritime Surveillance; Large Aircraft and Common Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM, DoN LAIRCM, CIRCM) systems, which protect large aircraft as well as rotary wing and medium fixed wing aircraft from infrared missiles using advanced laser technology; Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN), one of the first airborne gateway systems that allows platforms to communicate and securely share data; DDG Modernization, which is comprised of several subsystems to support modernization of Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers including Integrated Bridge and Navigation Systems (IBNS) and ship control systems; LITENING Advanced Targeting Pod, an electro-optical infrared sensor system for targeting and surveillance that enables aircrews to detect, acquire, identify and track targets at long ranges; APR-39 DV(2) and EV(2) Radar Warning Receiver programs, which provide a digital radar warning receiver for the U.S. Army, Navy and Marines; Exploitation and cyber programs, which provide cyber and intelligence domain support through unique intelligence and cyber capabilities; AC/MC 130J Radio Frequency Countermeasures system, which provides superior situational awareness and better enables aircraft survivability in operationally relevant environments; Embedded Global Positioning System (GPS) / Inertial Navigation Systems-Modernization (EGI-M) program, which provides state-of-the-art airborne navigation capabilities with an open architecture that enables rapid responses to future threats; and UH-60V Black Hawk integrated mission equipment package, which modernizes the U.S. Army s Black Hawk helicopters with a glass cockpit, including an integrated computational system, visual display system and control display units, extending the life and mission capabilities of the UH-60 platform. -3- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION SPACE SYSTEMS Space Systems is a leader in delivering end-to-end mission solutions through the design, development, integration, production and operation of space, missile defense, launch and strategic missile systems for national security, civil government, commercial and international customers. Major products include satellites and spacecraft systems, subsystems, sensors and payloads; ground systems; missile defense systems and interceptors; launch vehicles and related propulsion systems; and strategic missiles. Approximately 35 percent of this business is performed through restricted programs. Key unrestricted programs include: Ground Based Strategic Deterrent (GBSD) Engineering Manufacturing Development (EMD) program; Missile defense systems, interceptors, targets, mission processing and boosters for the Missile Defense Agency's (MDA) Next-Generation Interceptor (NGI) and Ground-based Midcourse Defense Weapon Systems (GWS); Space Development Agency Tracking and Transport layers providing missile warning/tracking and resilient, low-latency, high-volume data transport communication systems; Next-Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR) program satellites and payloads providing data for missile defense; Development and production of solid rocket motors for NASA s Space Launch System (SLS) heavy lift vehicle; 63-inch diameter Graphite Epoxy Motor (GEM 63) and the extended length variation (GEM 63XL) solid rocket boosters used to provide lift capability for the ATLAS V and Vulcan launch vehicles; Medium-class solid rocket motors for the U.S. Navy's Trident II Fleet Ballistic Missile program; Evolved Strategic SATCOM (ESS) and Protected Tactical SATCOM (PTS) satellites and payloads providing survivable, protected communications to U.S. forces; Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Ground Subsystem Support Contract (GSSC); Cygnus spacecraft, used in the execution of our Commercial Resupply Services (CRS) contracts with NASA; Habitation and Logistics Outpost (HALO) module in support of NASA s Gateway; and James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) operations and sustainment contract. CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION Our largest customer is the U.S. government. Sales to the U.S. government accounted for 86 percent, 86 percent and 85 percent of sales during the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For further information on sales by customer type, contract type and geographic region, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. See Risk Factors for further discussion regarding risks related to customer concentration. COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS We compete with many companies in the defense, intelligence and federal civil markets. The Boeing Company, General Dynamics, L3Harris Technologies, Lockheed Martin, and RTX are some of our primary competitors. Key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities and the number of competitor protests of U.S. government procurement awards. It is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, serve as a subcontractor to the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. SEASONALITY No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. BACKLOG At December 31, 2023, total backlog, which is equivalent to the company s remaining performance obligations, was $84.2 billion as compared with $78.7 billion at December 31, 2022. For further information, see Backlog in -4- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We routinely apply for and own a number of U.S. and foreign patents related to the technologies we develop. We also develop and protect intellectual property as trade secrets. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to third parties and we license or otherwise obtain access to intellectual property from third parties. The U.S. government typically holds licenses to patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts and may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents for certain purposes. See Risk Factors for further discussion regarding risks related to intellectual property. RAW MATERIALS We have experienced challenges with access to certain raw materials due to macroeconomic factors and several global events such as inflation, geopolitical conflicts and microelectronics shortages. In some cases, these challenges have significantly increased the cost and/or lead time required to obtain certain raw materials. Nonetheless, these challenges have not to date materially impacted our ability to perform on our contracts. See Risk Factors for further discussion regarding risks related to raw materials. HUMAN CAPITAL Fostering a culture that offers employees opportunities to live our values, deliver for our customers, and act responsibly and sustainably is central to our diverse and talented workforce. Our culture and values enable us to continue attracting qualified talent, particularly those with security clearances and requisite skills in multiple areas, including science, technology, engineering and math. This focus on our culture and workforce was a factor in our ability to hire approximately 14,500 new employees in 2023, and as of December 31, 2023, we have approximately 101,000 employees. Additional information regarding our human capital strategy is available in our Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report, which can be found on our company website. Information on our website, including our ESG Report, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Our Values and Culture Our values reflect our priorities and form the bedrock of our culture: We do the right thing we earn trust, act with ethics, integrity and transparency, treat everyone with respect, value diversity and foster safe and inclusive environments. We do what we promise we own the delivery of results, focused on quality. We commit to shared success we work together to focus on the mission and take accountability for the sustainable success of our people, customers, shareholders, suppliers and communities. We pioneer with fierce curiosity, dedication and innovation, we seek to solve the world s most challenging problems. We believe our culture and values are vital to the ongoing success of the company, including our ability to attract and retain a talented and diverse workforce. Our values are also integral to our commitment to long-term sustainability, with robust ESG practices across our company. The company has a Standards of Business Conduct program. Our employees are empowered to raise concerns without fear of reprisal. In addition to full-time ethics professionals, we also have over 150 business conduct advisors who promote values and an ethical culture within the company. Our annual Employee Experience Survey gives employees a voice and a mechanism to provide feedback on our culture and empower our leaders to enhance the employee experience. This anonymous survey encourages employee candor on key engagement and inclusion drivers, including belonging, respect, a sense of personal work accomplishment and recommending the company to others. In 2023, 81 percent of employees responded to the survey, an indication that our employees believe their feedback matters, and our survey results exceeded many of the global norms of our third party vendor for both engagement and inclusion. Our leaders review the survey responses and work collaboratively with their teams to take meaningful actions based on survey results. -5- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We value diversity and belonging in its broadest sense, as an enabling force that helps us pioneer, perform and deliver on quality, which results in value for our shareholders, customers, and employees. Across our U.S. employee population, as of December 31, 2023, 25 percent are female, 38 percent are people of color, 18 percent are veterans and 8 percent are persons with disabilities. At the vice president level, 35 percent are female and 20 percent are people of color. We strive to reach all parts of the diverse talent pools available now and in the future because we recognize that we benefit from having coworkers with different ideas, perspectives and approaches to help us innovate. Talent Management Northrop Grumman s talent strategy is focused on four key pillars: broadening talent pools; enhancing the employee experience; building leaders of the future; and enabling new ways of working. Our strategy addresses the external and internal landscape and ensures that we are able to attract, retain and develop the workforce necessary to support the continued success of the business. We hold regular talent review discussions to ensure line of sight to talent at various levels of the organization. Succession plans are refreshed and reviewed to ensure a robust, diverse pipeline of talent and business continuity with a tight linkage to development. We focus on accelerating learning and development of our leaders by providing a combination of experiences, exposure and education. Our employee development programs strengthen employee skills aligned to our current and future business needs through on-the-job development, knowledge sharing and tools to support career growth. Employees utilize curated, career-specific resources such as My Learning Experience, a machine learning enabled content aggregator that creates a personalized learning experience for each employee. Our Education Assistance Program subsidizes tuition and other educational institution fees to support development through job-related degrees and certificates. Our early-in-career rotation program, Pathways, develops talent pipelines with both depth of critical skills and breadth of experiences. Our technical cohort programs cultivate technical, domain expertise and collaborative thought leadership for early through advanced career levels. In a rapidly changing world, we maintain focus on keeping our team and our company prepared for the evolving future of work. In addition to offering our employees flexible work arrangements, caregiver support and mental health services that help our employees make their careers work within their lives, we also help our employees build the careers that will serve them into the future. We ensure that our employees have the tools and resources to develop their knowledge base and skill sets, so that they can continue to thrive at Northrop Grumman even in the midst of change. When our employees succeed and grow at work, our business succeeds and grows. Through a focus on our employees, we remain agile and innovative, adapting to the future as it unfolds before us. We provide many avenues for our employees to feel included, so we can hire, develop and retain the best people to support our common mission and better pioneer together. Employee Health and Safety Health and safety are a core focus in everything we do. People are our most valuable resource, and our goals have been, and continue to be, to keep our employees safe and position the company for long-term success. Risk and hazard identification, abatement and prevention are key components of Northrop Grumman s safety program. Everyone has a responsibility to identify workplace hazards and we empower employees to report these hazards without fear of repercussion. We evaluate the effectiveness of our health and safety programs externally, through benchmarking with industry peers and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Internally, we determine program effectiveness by conducting trend analyses of our past performance. Collective Agreements Approximately 4,100 employees are covered by 15 collective agreements in the U.S., of which we negotiated one renewal in 2023 and expect to negotiate five renewals in 2024. See Risk Factors for further discussion regarding risks related to our workforce and employee relations. REGULATORY MATTERS Government Contract Security Restrictions We are prohibited by the U.S. government from publicly discussing the details of certain classified programs. These programs are generally referred to as restricted in this Annual Report. The consolidated financial statements and financial information in this Annual Report reflect the operating results of our entire company, including restricted programs. -6- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Contracts We generate the majority of our business from long-term contracts with the U.S. government for development, production and support activities. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, allowable and allocable costs are billed to contracts with the U.S. government pursuant to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and U.S. government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), which are regulations that govern cost accounting requirements for government contracts. Examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the U.S. government in accordance with applicable FAR and CAS requirements include, but are not limited to, unallowable employee compensation, charitable donations, interest expense, advertising, and certain legal and travel costs. We monitor our contracts on a regular basis for compliance with our policies and procedures and applicable government laws and regulations. In addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). Our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two contract types: Cost-type contracts Cost-type contracts include cost plus fixed fee, cost plus award fee and cost plus incentive fee contracts. Cost-type contracts generally provide for reimbursement of a contractor s allowable costs incurred plus fee. As a result, cost-type contracts have less financial risk associated with unanticipated cost growth but generally provide lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Cost-type contracts typically require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and stated dollar limitation. Fees on cost-type contracts can be fixed in terms of dollar value or can be variable due to award and incentive fees, which are generally based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality and/or technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on customer evaluation of the company s performance against contractual criteria. Incentive fees are generally based on cost or schedule and provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later, based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs or as schedule milestones are met. Award and incentive fees are included in total estimated sales to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. We estimate variable consideration as the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. Fixed-price contracts Firm fixed-price contra