Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Overview 31 Consolidated Operating Results 33 Segment Operating Results 37 Product and Service Analysis 41 Backlog 41 Liquidity and Capital Resources 42 Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Report of Indep endent Regist ered P ub lic A ccounting Fir m 50 Consolidated Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income 53 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 54 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 55 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity 56 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 57 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 57 2. Dispositions 64 3. Earnings Per Share, Share Repurchases and Dividends on Common Stock 65 4. Accounts Receivable, Net 66 5. Unbilled Receivables, Net 66 6. Inventoried Costs, Net 67 7. Income Taxes 67 8. Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangible Assets 70 9. Fair Value of Financial Instruments 71 10. Debt 71 11. Investigations, Claims and Litigation 73 12. Commitments and Contingencies 74 13. Retirement Benefits 75 14. Stock Compensation Plans and Other Compensation Arrangements 80 15. Leases 83 16. Segment Information 84 i Page Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Item 9B. Other Information 89 Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 90 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 91 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 91 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 103 Signatures 104 ii NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION PART I Item 1. Business HISTORY AND ORGANIZATION History Northrop Grumman Corporation (herein referred to as Northrop Grumman, the company, we, us, or our ) is a leading global aerospace and defense company. We deliver a broad range of products, services and solutions to U.S. and international customers, and principally to the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and intelligence community. Our broad portfolio is aligned to support national security priorities and our solutions equip our customers with capabilities they need to connect, protect and advance humanity. The company is a leading provider of space systems, advanced aircraft, missile defense, advanced weapons and long-range fires capabilities, mission systems, networking and communications, strategic deterrence systems, and breakthrough technologies, such as artificial intelligence, advanced computing and cyber. We are focused on competing and winning programs that enable continued growth, performing on our commitments and affordably delivering capability our customers need. With the investments we've made in advanced technologies, combined with our talented workforce and digital transformation capabilities, Northrop Grumman is well positioned to meet our customers' needs today and in the future. For a discussion of risks associated with our operations, see Risk Factors. The company originally was formed in 1939 in Hawthorne, California as Northrop Aircraft Incorporated and was reincorporated in Delaware in 1985, as Northrop Corporation. Northrop Corporation was a principal developer of flying wing technology, including the B-2 Spirit bomber. The company developed into one of the largest defense contractors in the world through a series of acquisitions, as well as organic growth, including the following: 1994 - Acquired Grumman Corporation, a premier military aircraft systems integrator. The combined company was renamed Northrop Grumman Corporation; 1996 - Acquired the defense and electronics businesses of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, developer of sophisticated radar and other electronics systems; 2001 - Acquired Litton Industries, Inc., a global electronics and information technology company and full service shipbuilder; 2001 - Acquired Newport News Shipbuilding Inc., designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and submarines; 2002 - Acquired TRW Inc., developer of military and civil space systems and payloads, and integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services; 2011 - Completed the spin-off of Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc., operator of our former shipbuilding business, comprised largely of a part of Litton Industries and Newport News Shipbuilding; 2018 - Acquired Orbital ATK, Inc. (OATK), developer and producer of satellites and other space systems, launch vehicles and missile products; and 2021 - Completed the sale of our IT and mission support services business (the IT services divestiture ) to Veritas Capital. Organization From time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses and realign contracts, programs or businesses among and within our operating segments. Internal realignments are typically designed to leverage existing capabilities more fully and to enhance efficient development and delivery of products and services. At December 31, 2021, the company was aligned in four operating sectors, which also comprise our reportable segments: Aeronautics Systems, Defense Systems, Mission Systems and Space Systems. AERONAUTICS SYSTEMS Aeronautics Systems is a leader in the design, development, production, integration, sustainment and modernization of advanced aircraft systems for the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Navy, other U.S. government agencies, and international customers. These aircraft systems support four mission areas: strike; air dominance; battle management -1- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION and control; and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR). Aeronautics Systems is reported in two business areas: Autonomous Systems and Manned Aircraft. Autonomous Systems provides unmanned autonomous aircraft systems, including high-altitude long-endurance (HALE) strategic ISR systems and vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) tactical ISR systems. Key programs include: MQ-4C Triton, which provides wide area strategic ISR over vast ocean and coastal regions for maritime domain awareness to the U.S. Navy and Australia; RQ-4 Global Hawk, which provides high resolution imagery of land masses for theater awareness and strategic ISR to the U.S. Air Force, Japan, and the Republic of Korea; North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Alliance Ground Surveillance (AGS), a Global Hawk variant, for strategic ISR missions conducted in multinational theater operations; and MQ-8B and MQ-8C Fire Scout, ship-based, VTOL tactical ISR systems that provide situational awareness and precision targeting for the U.S. Navy. Manned Aircraft provides strategic long-range strike aircraft, tactical fighter and air dominance aircraft, and airborne battle management and command and control systems. Key programs include: Development and production of the U.S. Air Force B-21 Raider long-range strike bomber, as well as modernization and sustainment services for the B-2 Spirit bomber; Fuselage production for the F/A-18 Super Hornet and the F-35 Lighting II Joint Strike Fighter for use by U.S. and international forces; E-2D Advanced Hawkeye battle management aircraft production for the U.S. Navy, Japan, and France; and E-8C Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) aircraft sustainment and modernization for the U.S. Air Force. DEFENSE SYSTEMS Defense Systems is a leader in the design, development, production, integration, sustainment and modernization of weapon and mission systems for U.S. military and civilian agency customers, and a broad range of international customers. Major products and services include integrated battle management systems, weapons systems and aircraft and mission systems sustainment and modernization. The sector is reported in two business areas: Battle Management Missile Systems, and Mission Readiness. Battle Management Missile Systems designs, develops and integrates multi-domain command and control (C2) and weapons systems, including munitions and missiles. The business provides integration and interoperability of net-enabled battle management, sensors, targeting and surveillance systems a backbone architecture for Joint All-Domain Command and Control (JADC2) capable of integrating sensors and shooters, as well as air and missile defense C2 systems. It also develops and produces precision strike weapons; advanced propulsion, including high speed air-breathing and hypersonic systems; and high-performance gun systems and precision munitions. Competencies include system and software development; integration of weapon systems; tactical missile and component development and production; and production of advanced fuzes, munitions and defense electronics. Key programs include: Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System (IBCS) for the U.S. Army and Poland, which is a system that integrates sensors and effectors to deliver among the most advanced C2 systems for joint and coalition forces; Counter Rocket, Artillery and Mortar (C-RAM), a set of systems used to detect and destroy incoming threats; U.S. Navy s Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile (AARGM), a medium-range, air-to-surface missile, and its extended range variant, AARGM-ER; Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System (GMLRS) propulsion and warhead subsystems for a surface-to-surface system used to defeat targets using indirect precision fires up to 70-plus kilometers; Precision Guidance Kit (PGK), replaces conventional fuzes for artillery and mortar munitions and transforms them into Global Positioning System enabled precision guided weapons; and -2- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION U.S. Army s Mission Command Training Program (MCTP), providing the design, development and support to train and exercise senior Army Commanders on modern warfighting operations . Mission Readiness provides full life cycle service and support for software, weapons systems and aircraft, and logistics support, sustainment, operations and modernization for air, sea and ground systems. It also supports critical warfighter training for complex missions in a realistic virtual environment. Competencies include aircraft, electronics and embedded software sustainment; digital engineering and extended reality training for platform logistics; and maintenance. Key programs include: Global system sustainment and operations support for the F-35, B-2, E-8C JSTARS surveillance aircraft, P-3 Orion, KC-30A multi-role tanker, C-27J transport, Global Hawk and Triton programs; Special Electronics Mission Aircraft (SEMA) intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support; AAQ-24 sensor sustainment and repair for U.S. military customers; and APN-241 radar sustainment, repair and production for U.S. military and foreign military sales (FMS) customers. MISSION SYSTEMS Mission Systems is a leader in advanced mission solutions and multifunction systems, primarily for the U.S. defense and intelligence community, and international customers. Major products and services include cyber; command, control, communications and computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems; radar, electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) and acoustic sensors; electronic warfare systems; advanced communications and network systems; cyber solutions; intelligence processing systems; navigation; and maritime power, propulsion and payload launch systems. The sector is reported in four business areas: Airborne Multifunction Sensors; Maritime/Land Systems Sensors; Navigation, Targeting Survivability; and Networked Information Solutions. Airborne Multifunction Sensors delivers products, systems and services that support airborne platforms with multi-function radio frequency (RF) and EO/IR systems; radar, electronic warfare and situational awareness mission systems; and high altitude ISR sensors. Competencies include fire control, surveillance and early warning and control radar systems; electronic attack and electronic support systems; and multi-sensor processing. Key unrestricted programs include: Airborne Early Warning Control (AEW C). The center piece of the E-7 AEW C aircraft is the Multi-role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar which enables 360 degree long range advanced air moving target indicator (AMTI) capabilities for Battle Management, Command and Control, and Maritime Surveillance; F-35 fire control radar and Distributed Aperture System (DAS), which provides 360 degree field of view tracking, identifying, missile warning and night vision capabilities; LONGBOW Fire Control Radar (FCR), which provides fire control radar capabilities for the global AH-64 helicopter fleet; and Scalable Agile Beam Radar (SABR), an active electronically scanned array fire control radar system for F-16 aircraft. Maritime/Land Systems Sensors delivers products, systems and services that enable maritime and ground platform mission capabilities via sensors, targeting and surveillance systems; electronic warfare systems; mission module integration; power, propulsion and control systems; and missile launchers. Competencies include ground and maritime radar systems; nuclear ship propulsion and power generation systems; shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems; integrated bridge systems; unmanned maritime vehicles; high-resolution undersea sensors; deep-sea packaging; and mission integration. Key unrestricted programs include : Surface Electronic Warfare Improvement Program (SEWIP) Block III, which protects surface ships from anti-ship missiles, provides early detection, signal analysis and threat warning; Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR), a mobile multi-mode active electronically scanned array; Littoral Combat Ship Mission Module Integration, which provides engineering design, support and production of mission modules for U.S. Navy littoral combat ships; -3- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION DDG Modernization, which is comprised of several subsystems to support modernization of Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers including Integrated Bridge and Navigation Systems (IBNS) and ship control systems; and Offshore Patrol Cutter (OPC), the integrator for C5ISR systems on the U.S. Coast Guard OPC including integrated bridge, navigation, command and control, computing network, machinery and propulsion control. Navigation, Targeting Survivability delivers products, systems and services that support aircraft platforms with targeting, self-protection and situational awareness mission systems; and provides embedded navigation and positioning sensors for a range of platforms including ships, aircraft, spacecraft and weapons. Competencies include EO/IR and RF self-protection; targeting and surveillance systems; digitized cockpits; and inertial navigation systems. Key unrestricted programs include: LITENING Advanced Targeting Pod, an electro-optical infrared sensor system for targeting and surveillance that enables aircrews to detect, acquire, identify and track targets at long ranges; Large Aircraft and Common Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM, DoN LAIRCM, CIRCM) systems, which protect large aircraft as well as rotary wing and medium fixed wing aircraft from infrared missiles using advanced laser technology; APR-39 DV(2) and EV(2) Radar Warning Receiver programs, which produce a digital radar warning receiver for the U.S. Army, Navy and Marines; AC/MC 130J Radio Frequency Countermeasures system, which provides superior situational awareness and better enables aircraft survivability in operationally relevant environments; Embedded Global Positioning System (GPS) / Inertial Navigation Systems-Modernization (EGI-M) program, which provides state-of-the-art airborne navigation capabilities with an open architecture that enables rapid responses to future threats; and UH-60V Black Hawk integrated mission equipment package, which modernizes the U.S. Army s Black Hawk helicopters with a glass cockpit, including an integrated computational system, visual display system and control display units, extending the life and mission capabilities of the UH-60 platform. Networked Information Solutions - delivers products, systems and services in the areas of advanced communications and network systems, full spectrum cyber solutions, secure processing, transformational computing, advanced technology development, and Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) mission systems. Competencies include software defined radios and network gateways, communications and counter-communications systems; cyber mission management; large scale cyber solutions for national security applications; cyber survivability; ground software systems; and SIGINT sensors and processing. Key unrestricted programs include: Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN), one of the first airborne gateway systems that allows platforms to communicate and securely share data; F-35 Communications, Navigation and Identification (CNI) integrated avionics system, which provides secure communications and interoperability capabilities; Joint Counter Radio-Controlled Improvised Explosive Device Electronic Warfare (JCREW), a software-programmable jammer that provides protection from improvised explosive devices (IEDs); Exploitation and cyber programs, which provide cyber and intelligence domain support through unique intelligence and cyber capabilities, and; Airborne Signals Intelligence Payload (ASIP), which delivers key signals intelligence capabilities to the warfighter by detecting, identifying, and locating radar and other types of electronic and modern communication signals. -4- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION SPACE SYSTEMS Space Systems is a leader in delivering end-to-end mission solutions through the design, development, integration, production and operation of space, missile defense, launch and strategic missile systems for national security, civil government, commercial and international customers. Major products include satellites and payloads; ground systems; missile defense systems and interceptors; launch vehicles and related propulsion systems; and strategic missiles. The sector is reported in two business areas: Launch Strategic Missiles, and Space. Launch Strategic Missiles designs, develops, manufactures and integrates small- and medium-class space launch vehicles to place satellites into earth orbit; suborbital launch vehicles that place payloads into a variety of high-altitude trajectories; large strategic missile systems; and missile defense systems. Competencies include large strategic missile design, integration, production and sustainment, as well as the production of medium- and large-class rocket propulsion systems for human and cargo launch vehicles, hypersonic boosters and missile defense interceptors. Key programs include: Antares rocket, used in the execution of our Commercial Resupply Services (CRS) contracts with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA); Development and production of solid rocket motors for NASA s Space Launch System (SLS) heavy lift vehicle; Missile defense systems, interceptors, targets, mission processing and boosters for the Missile Defense Agency's (MDA) Next-Generation Interceptor (NGI), Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system and Ground Based Interceptor (GBI); Ground Based Strategic Deterrent (GBSD) Engineering Manufacturing Development (EMD) program; Medium-class solid rocket motors for the U.S. Navy's Trident II Fleet Ballistic Missile program; and Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Ground Subsystem Support Contract (GSSC). Space designs, develops, manufactures and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems, sensors, payloads and ground systems to deliver mission capability to national security, science and environmental, communications, on-orbit servicing, and human-rated space systems for earth orbit and deep-space exploration missions. Much of this business is performed through restricted programs. Key unrestricted programs include: Cygnus spacecraft, used in the execution of our CRS contracts with NASA; Habitation and Logistics Outpost (HALO) module in support of NASA s Gateway; Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF), Enhanced Polar System (EPS), Evolved Strategic SATCOM (ESS), and Protected Tactical SATCOM (PTS) satellites and payloads providing survivable, protected communications to U.S. forces; Next-Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR) program satellites and payloads providing data for missile defense; Space sustainability driven by on orbit servicing vehicles Mission Extension Vehicle (MEV) 1 and 2; and James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), a large infrared telescope built for NASA that was launched on December 25, 2021 to study the origins of the universe. CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION Our largest customer is the U.S. government. Sales to the U.S. government accounted for 85 percent, 84 percent and 83 percent of sales during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. For further information on sales by customer type, contract type and geographic region, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. See Risk Factors for further discussion regarding risks related to customer concentration. COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS We compete with many companies in the defense, intelligence and federal civil markets. The Boeing Company, General Dynamics, L3Harris Technologies, Lockheed Martin, and Raytheon Technologies are some of our primary competitors. Key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities and the number of bid protests (competitor protests of U.S. government procurement awards). -5- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION It is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, serve as a subcontractor to the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. SEASONALITY No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. BACKLOG At December 31, 2021, total backlog, which is equivalent to the company s remaining performance obligations, was $76.0 billion as compared with $81.0 billion at December 31, 2020. In connection with the IT services divestiture, the company reduced backlog by $1.4 billion during the first quarter of 2021 ($1.0 billion at Defense Systems, $0.2 billion at Mission Systems and $0.2 billion at Space Systems). For further information, see Backlog in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We routinely apply for and own a number of U.S. and foreign patents related to the technologies we develop. We also develop and protect intellectual property as trade secrets. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to third parties and we license or otherwise obtain access to intellectual property from third parties. The U.S. government typically holds licenses to patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts and may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents for certain purposes. See Risk Factors for further discussion regarding risks related to intellectual property. RAW MATERIALS We have experienced challenges with access to certain raw materials due to several global events such as microelectronics shortages and COVID-19. Nonetheless, these challenges have not to date led to significant cost increases or schedule delays. See Risk Factors for further discussion regarding risks related to raw materials. HUMAN CAPITAL Creating a diverse, talented and inclusive workplace is central to our culture, employee engagement, innovation and excellence, and in performing and delivering on our commitments. Our culture is an important factor in our ability to continue attracting and retaining qualified employees, particularly those with security clearances and requisite skills in multiple areas, including science, technology, engineering and math. This focus was a factor in our ability to hire approximately 9,500 new employees in 2021 and as of December 31, 2021, we have approximately 88,000 employees. Additional information regarding our human capital strategy is available in our Sustainability Report and Proxy Statement, which can be found on our company website. Information on our website, including our Sustainability Report, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Our Values and Culture Our values reflect our priorities and form the bedrock of our culture: We do the right thing we earn trust, act with ethics, integrity and transparency, treat everyone with respect, value diversity and foster safe and inclusive environments. We do what we promise we own the delivery of results, focused on quality. We commit to shared success we work together to focus on the mission and take accountability for the sustainable success of our people, customers, shareholders, suppliers and communities. We pioneer with fierce curiosity, dedication and innovation, we seek to solve the world s most challenging problems. We believe our values are vital to the continued and future success of the company, and in our ability to attract and retain a diverse workforce. Our values are also integral to our commitment to long-term sustainability, with robust environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices across our company. The company has a Standards of Business Conduct program. All employees are empowered to raise concerns without fear of reprisal. We employ 140 business conduct advisors whose job is to promote values and an ethical culture within the company. -6- NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Our annual employee survey gives employees the opportunity to provide feedback on our culture. This survey is managed by a third-party vendor to encourage candor and solicit feedback on many aspects of engagement, including company leadership, culture, inclusion and career development. In 2021, our employee response rate was 82 percent, an indication that our employees believe their feedback is important, and we were named a High Performing Company by the third-party vendor based on our strong survey results. Our leaders review the survey feedback and work with their teams to take action based on survey results. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE I) are, and have long been, critical to our culture and our company s success. Our focus on DE I enhances engagement and increases innovation and quality, enabling us to deliver better performance for our shareholders, customers, and employees. Diversity is one of the company s non-financial ESG performance metrics and is reviewed by the Board of Directors. Across our total employee population, as of December 31, 2021, 25 percent are female, 36 percent are people of color, 18 percent are veterans and 9 percent are persons with disabilities. Over the past 10 years, at the vice president level, we have more than doubled the representation of females from 16 percent to 35 percent and increased the representation of people of color by approximately 65 percent, from 11 percent to 18 percent. Talent Acquisition, Management and Development We execute our Talent Management strategy with the whole employee experience in mind. We utilize an employee experience continuum that focuses on key career milestones and aligns our employee development, engagement and retention efforts with the specific needs of our employees throughout their careers. We believe this holistic approach to talent management results in a better experience for our employees, from recruiting to retirement. We hold regular talent review discussions to ensure insight into talent at various levels of the organization. Succession plans are refreshed and reviewed to ensure a robust, diverse pipeline of talent and business continuity with a tight linkage to development. We design our employee development programs to strengthen employee skills aligned to our current and future business needs, encourage knowledge transfer and support career growth and progression. In late 2020, we launched My Learning Experience, a machine learning enabled content aggregator designed to create a unique and personalized learning experience for each employee. We offer our employees online career-specific tools and resources and we also support development opportunities through educational institutions with our Education Assistance Program. Our early-in-career rotation program, Pathways, develops talent pipelines with both depth of skills and breadth of experiences that are critical to the company s future talent needs. Our technical cohort programs are designed to cultivate technical, domain expertise and collaborative thought leadership for early through adva