Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6 [ Reserved] 33 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B Other Information 84 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 84 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 84 Item 11 Executive Compensation 84 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 84 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions and Director Independence 84 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 84 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 85 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 86 Exhibit Index 86 Signatures 90 Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). While forward-looking statements are based on the reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS ServiceNow was founded on a simple premise: a better technology platform will help work flow better. The company s purpose is to make the world work better for everyone. We help global enterprises across industries, universities and governments to digitize their workflows the individual tasks that need to be executed to get a job done. Our technology platform, which we refer to as the Now Platform, enables us to connect systems, silos, departments and processes with digital workflows that are simple and easy to use. We categorize the workflows we provide into four primary areas: Information Technology ( IT ), Employee, Customer and Creator, as discussed in more detail below. Our IT workflows give IT departments the ability to plan, build, operate and service across the entire IT lifecycle. Our Employee workflows help customers simplify how their employees get the services they need, creating a familiar, consumer-like way to get work done from wherever an employee may be at home, in the workplace or in the field. Our Customer workflows help organizations reimagine the customer experience and increase customer loyalty. Our Creator workflows enable our customers to quickly create, test, and deploy their own applications on the Now Platform. Traditionally, business processes have been automated and embedded across enterprise technology systems from finance to human resources ( HR ) to sales, customer support and beyond. Over time, these systems have become disconnected, siloed and complex, often limiting flexibility and adaptability and lacking the intuition and empowerment of technologies created for the individual consumer. ServiceNow is changing these limitations. We offer the capability to quickly change how work is done to keep pace with a rapidly changing environment. The Now Platform delivers a simple, user-friendly experience, making work easier, faster and more fulfilling. We believe a better service experience is the ultimate desired outcome of digital transformation. The Now Platform is uniquely positioned to enable our customers digital transformation from non-integrated enterprise technology solutions with manual and disconnected processes and activities, to integrated enterprise technology solutions with automation and connected processes and activities. The transformation to digital operations, enabled by the Now Platform, increases our customers resiliency and security and delivers great experiences and additional value to their employees and consumers. The company s success began with Information Technology Service Management ( ITSM ), a category in which ServiceNow has become a market leader. Over time, we expanded beyond our ITSM capabilities to meet the needs of our customer s expanding digital requirements to modernize technology operations, employee experiences, customer experiences, industry-specific challenges and application development and integration. We are now recognized as a leader for multiple products across our IT, Employee, Customer and Creator Workflows. The Now Platform s task-based orientation allows work to be done with a single, aligned view of every service experience. For example, a new employee uses ServiceNow to complete onboarding tasks with their new employer. The new employee is interfacing through an integrated ServiceNow experience whether tasks originate from ServiceNow or other systems. Similarly, customer service can be executed in a way that solves problems without creating frustration. 1 Table of Contents Over the years, we have expanded our customer base and our customers have expanded their use of the Now Platform. For example, many companies now have multi-year, digital transformation plans, many of which heavily involve introducing uses of additional ServiceNow products and services. From a single, out-of-the-box solution, companies recognize the value of using additional products to strengthen the richness and quality of their data running through the Now Platform. As we help organizations realize more value from the Now Platform and better serve their stakeholders, we do so in a manner that also helps organizations accelerate their environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) ambitions. To serve the growing focus on ESG, ServiceNow also offers an integrated ESG solution on the Now Platform as part of our IT workflows. ServiceNow strives to help our customers solve their unique challenges, operate on their unique technologies and systems and change at their unique pace. The foundation of our approach to customers and our ambition to be the defining enterprise software company of the 21 st century are grounded in our values. Wow our customers: Customers are the center of our world. We strive to deliver the best customer experiences and innovations. Win as a team: We share the same goals and have clear roles in achieving them. We deliver results as a team and enjoy the journey. Create belonging: Diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental. Belonging is the breakthrough. We lead with empathy, which means listening and acting to make everyone feel they belong with ServiceNow. Stay hungry and humble : We do not take success for granted. We are always ready to learn and evolve. We grow together, bringing fresh ideas and new perspectives. For all these reasons, our customers trust us with their mission critical operations, and we feel immensely proud that The World Works with ServiceNow. Our Products ServiceNow s product portfolio spans four workflows IT, Employee, Customer and Creator and are delivered on ServiceNow s Platform the Now Platform. The products under each of our workflows are helping customers connect work across systems and silos to enable great experiences for people. Each year, two platform upgrades are released, each with new standard functionality and new standalone products to further simplify the way our customers work and enhance productivity. 2 Table of Contents The Now Platform The Now Platform is a single-cloud platform with one data model and one architecture, enabling speed, flexibility and innovation that offers a one-stop shop for automation and simplification of manual processes. It is highly flexible, scalable, and extensible. The Now Platform delivers workflows across siloed organizations and systems by connecting them together in a seamless way to unlock productivity and improve experiences for both employees and customers. As the foundation for how we deliver our enterprise-wide digital workflows, the Now Platform integrates with our customers cloud platforms and systems of choice, allowing our customers to deliver workflows across their current and future preferred systems of record and collaboration platforms. The automation of workflows on our platform is enhanced by additional services we offer, such as artificial intelligence ( AI ), machine learning, robotic process automation, performance analytics, electronic service catalogs and portals, configuration management systems, data benchmarking, encryption and collaboration and low-code/no-code development tools. While every company has a different suite of user interfaces from web-based to mobile to conversation applications, the Now Platform creates a common user experience for customers to manage workflows across all interfaces. The Now Platform also powers three native mobile experiences for everyday work across the enterprise: Virtual Agent, Now Mobile and Mobile Onboarding. Enterprises can take advantage of consumer-like, mobile experiences, such as getting help from human resources or ordering a computer, from our platform. Our goal is to make our customers work lives as simple, easy and mobile-friendly as their personal lives. IT Workflows Our IT Workflows help companies unite IT, risk management, and security operations on a single platform to deliver modern, resilient services aligned to our customers priorities. Our IT products assist IT departments to serve their customers, manage their networks, identify and remediate security vulnerabilities and threats, gain visibility across their IT resources and asset lifecycles, optimize IT costs and reduce time spent on administrative tasks. We enable IT workflows through ITSM, IT Business Management, IT Operations Management, IT Asset Management, Security Operations, and Governance, Risk and Compliance, among other products. Many of these products also enable our Employee and Customer workflows. IT Service Management As our flagship product suite, ITSM defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates the IT services that an enterprise offers its employees, customers and partners. Among ITSM s capabilities are AI, machine learning, predictive intelligence, Virtual Agent, recording incidents, remediating problems, automating routine tasks and requests, performance analytics and continual improvement management capabilities. IT Business Management Our IT Business Management product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customer s IT project portfolio. IT Operations Management Our IT Operations Management product suite connects a customer s physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customer s IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premises or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. IT Asset Management Our IT Asset Management product automates customers IT software, hardware and cloud asset lifecycles with workflows to track the financial, contractual and inventory details of these IT assets throughout their lifecycles. Security Operations Our security operations product connects with internal and third-party security alerts from a customer s infrastructure to prioritize and respond to incidents and vulnerabilities according to their potential impact on a customer s business. 3 Table of Contents Governance, Risk and Compliance Our Governance, Risk and Compliance ( GRC ) products help customers manage risk and resilience in real time. Among the GRC s product suite s capabilities are policy and compliance management, risk management, including detection and assessment, business continuity management, vendor risk management and operational risk management. Employee Workflows Our Employee workflow products can transform the employee experience and make work better for our customers employees by letting their employees work and collaborate where and how they want, improving productivity and agility. Employee workflow products also help customers be more efficient with their employee resources, staffing and delivery services, streamline employee lifecycle events and increase visibility as workforces continue to be remote. We enable Employee workflows through HR Service Delivery, Safe Workplace Suite, Workplace Service Delivery, and Legal Service Delivery, among other products. HR Service Delivery Our HR Service Delivery product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates HR services related to employee requests. HR Service Delivery capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events across multiple departments, such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. Safe Workplace Suite We created a Safe Workplace suite of applications and a dashboard to help companies manage the steps for returning employees to the workplace, assessing both workforce and workplace readiness, contact tracing and documenting employee health and vaccination status. These applications were developed to help companies reopen the workplace and support the health and safety of their employees after emergencies or pandemics, increase engagement, improve productivity and maintain business continuity, all while creating a great user experience for employees. Workplace Service Delivery Our Workplace Service Delivery product keeps our customers workplaces running smoothly with a multi-channel, mobile-enabled solution. With Workplace Service Delivery, employees of our customers automate requests, reservations and repairs to help use space wisely, provide easy access to services, manage requests efficiently and get real-time visibility. Legal Service Delivery Our Legal Service Delivery product consolidates manual tools and modernizes internal legal operations processes to manage legal requests across the enterprise. With Legal Service Delivery, legal teams can gain efficiency, deliver support efficiently with automated responses and get insight into demand with real-time reporting and dashboards. Customer Workflows Customer workflows help drive customer loyalty with connected digital workflows that deliver modern customer experiences. Customer workflows help customers elevate their customer service with enhanced resolution efficiency and improved service quality made possible with workflows, automation, and location-based work tasks management. Customer service departments no longer have to rely on reactive agents searching multiple systems to find a single answer to customer issues. Integrating front-end customer service capabilities with operations and field service resources, our Customer workflow products help create a seamless customer experience from issue to resolution through connected digital workflows that deliver fast support on a customer s channel of choice. We enable Customer workflows through Customer Service Management and Field Service Management, among other products. Customer Service Management Our Customer Service Management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates common customer service cases and requests, such as password resets, to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. 4 Table of Contents Field Service Management Our Field Service Management product allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident. Creator Workflows Creator workflows help customers build cross-enterprise digital workflow applications fast with a low-code platform that safely delivers agile services at scale. As organizations digitally transform, they need to pivot faster with new processes and business models. This requires faster, more agile execution with more automation delivered through software applications. With Creator Workflows, citizen developers have access to pre-built templates, low-code tools and modular building blocks created by professional developers and the user experience is further enhanced when such apps are used on the same platform they were built. We enable Creator workflows through App Engine and IntegrationHub, among other products. App Engine Our App Engine product empowers enterprise-class low code application delivery with intuitive and intelligent experiences, at speed and scale. With App Engine, customers and third-party developers can extend workflow automation by creating, testing and deploying their own consumer-grade applications that can be scaled from a single department to the entire enterprise. Examples of applications our customers have developed include: an application developed by a company with a large network of seasonal retail stores and offices to track progress and identify issues in opening and closing their seasonal locations, which enabled significant cost savings; an application developed by the IT office of a university that allocated and billed costs associated with IT maintenance, allowing the university to retire multiple legacy software systems; and an application developed by a mortgage company to ensure that loan files were complete and accurate prior to packaging and selling the loans to investors. IntegrationHub Our IntegrationHub product enables anyone who creates an application on the Now Platform to extend workflows into third-party products, eliminating the need for other integration tools to connect a ServiceNow workflow with other software platforms. Integration hub provides a framework that allows developers to create and publish integrations for use by anyone. The Now Platform provides connectors to hundreds of products and integrations in the ServiceNow Store. Industry Solutions We offer industry solutions to better address the unique needs of specific industries. We offer industry solutions for financial services; telecommunications, media and technology ( TMT ); healthcare and life sciences; and manufacturing. We intend to offer other industry specific solutions in addition to our other workflow products. With Financial Services Operations, financial services customers can unite their front, middle and back offices to improve customer and employee experiences. With Telecommunications Service Management and Order Management, TMT customers can scale their order management process, launch services quickly, enhance customer care, automate service assurance and gain real-time data visibility. With Healthcare and Life Sciences Service Management, healthcare and life sciences customers can offer consumer-grade experiences, unlock productivity and streamline operations. With Manufacturing Connected Workforce and Operational Technology Management, manufacturing customers can empower their workforce with digital tools and knowledge to improve efficiency and create a single system of action for their operational environment, improve uptime and drive outcomes across their operations. Professional Services Our Professional Services are offered by ServiceNow alone and in a co-delivery model with our network of partners to help customers maximize the value of their ServiceNow investment. Our professional services include process design, implementation, configuration, architecture and optimization services. With our Now Value methodology as the foundation for customer success, our services bring together our experts and leading practices enabling our customers to create value and drive customer outcomes as they embark on enterprise digital transformations through the use of our platform. Our training services include programs for all of our products. Customer Support Customers receive standard and enhanced support around the globe, from technical resources located in the United States and internationally. We will start offering customer support on a subscription-based model and we offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base articles, online training, online support forums and online case creation. 5 Table of Contents Our Technology and Operations We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application logic and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. Our cloud infrastructure primarily consists of industry-standard servers, networks and storage components. We host our full software-as-a-service experience on our own private cloud and use public cloud service providers for customers that are primarily in highly regulated markets. Our data centers operate in paired configurations to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We currently operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States, and we continuously evaluate our data center operations and capacity in existing and new geographies. We offer customers the option to deploy our services on dedicated hardware in our data centers. We offer customers the option to have their EU-hosted data handled exclusively within the EU. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to allow customers the option of deploying our services internally or under contract with a third party to host the software in order to support unique regulatory or security requirements. While there are some limitations on agility and flexibility as compared to our cloud offering, a minority of our customers have elected the third-party alternative. The standard and enhanced customer support we provide for self-hosted customers is similar to the support we provide to customers deployed in our managed data centers. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products and services to enterprises across industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, telecommunications, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, education and consumer products. We sell our product offerings and services through subscription services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell services through managed services providers and resale partners. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, digital advertising (including via our website), trade shows, industry events, brand campaigns and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge user conference, webinars and other user forums, including regional forums which we call Now at Work, where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to educate them on industry best practices and help accelerate their success. We continue to expand our sales capabilities in new geographies, including through investments in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources, post-sales customer support resources, strategic alliances and partnerships, implementation partners and advisory councils. We also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Partner Ecosystem In addition to our global direct sales organization, we also have a strong and growing ecosystem of partners that helps accelerate our customers digital transformation initiatives and deliver customer value at scale. Our partners play a critical role in helping companies digitally transform their business. Our industry and workflow capabilities paired with our partners industry and functional domain experience help customers of all sizes. Together with our partners, we offer industry and domain-focused solutions at scale and are accelerating digital transformation as we help companies drive new approaches in engaging their end users and employees. Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers, and we host and support large, enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 7,400 enterprise customers. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, telco, education and consumer products. The portion of our revenues generated by sales to government customers has also increased over time. See Risk Factors Doing business with the public sector, including U.S. governments and agencies, heavily-regulated organizations and governments globally, subjects us to risks related to the government procurement process, regulations, and contracting requirements for additional information about our sales to government customers. 6 Table of Contents Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and validation of our solutions. We focus on innovating and developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of our existing solutions. Using emerging technologies, we can anticipate customer demands and then bring new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to broaden our platform capabilities, strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform, enhance our user experience and develop additional mobile, automation and machine intelligence technologies. Acquisitions and Investments In addition to our own research and development investments, we have made strategic acquisitions and investments and will continue to assess opportunities to complement our technology and skill sets and expand our product reach. Our focus is on building out our platform and products through both organic investments to support customer needs and acquisitions of talent and enhanced capabilities. For example, our larger acquisitions in 2021 focused on bringing development and operations observability and additional AI capabilities to the Now Platform and across our suite of products. Competition As customers accelerate their digital transformation plans and digital operation initiatives, they are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their information technology environments. The Now Platform is designed to meet customers demands by seamlessly connecting workflows across siloed organizations and systems in a way that unlocks productivity, improving experiences for both employees and customers and delivering real business outcomes. Our technology platform offers solutions that are complementary to the offerings of many enterprise software vendors; we believe that we do not need those vendors to lose for us to win. We work directly with product and service offerings from a broad range of companies including some of the largest in the world, and continuously increase our strategic alliances with many of these companies as we expand our integrations for customers. However, as we and those vendors grow, we may find ourselves in competition with solutions and alternative approaches to solving customer needs, including: Enterprise application software vendors . We designed the Now Platform to quickly integrate with, and complement the performance of well-established, enterprise application software vendors, such as Oracle, SAP, Salesforce, and Workday. Customers may choose to work directly with their application software vendors to improve integrations and create connected workflows. New technologies and entrants . Markets are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. New technologies and competitors are entering the markets to solve similar problems in different ways, intensifying competition. Customers may choose alternative tech