Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C Cyber security 28 Item 2 Properties 30 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 [Reserved] 34 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B Other Information 84 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 84 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 84 Item 11 Executive Compensation 84 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 84 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 84 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 84 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 85 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 86 Exhibit Index 86 Signatures 89 Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, as well as variations of these words and similar expressions, are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). While forward-looking statements are based on our management s reasonable expectations at the time that they are made, you should not rely on those statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS ServiceNow was founded on a simple premise: to make work flow better. Our purpose is to make the world work better for everyone. We are the end-to-end intelligent workflow automation platform for digital businesses. Our intelligent platform, the Now Platform, is a cloud-based solution with embedded artificial intelligence ( AI ) and machine learning ( ML ) capabilities that helps global enterprises across industries, universities and governments unify and digitize their workflows. By connecting workflows across siloed organizational functions and systems, the Now Platform delivers business outcomes, including unlocking productivity, streamlining processes, and improving experiences for both employees and customers. Our workflow applications built on the Now Platform are organized in four primary areas: Technology, Customer and Industry, Employee, and Creator. Our Technology Workflows empower Information Technology ( IT ) departments to plan, build, operate and service the IT needs of the business enterprise. Our Customer and Industry Workflows help organizations reimagine the customer experience and increase customer loyalty. Our Employee Workflows help customers simplify how their employees access services they need, creating a consumer-like experience. Our Creator Workflows enable customers to quickly create, test, and deploy their own low-code applications on the Now Platform. We continue to evolve these workflows to meet the needs of our customers expanding digital requirements by modernizing technology operations, employee experiences, customer experiences, industry-specific challenges, and application development and integration. For example, we embedded into each of these workflows AI and ML capabilities, such as text-to-code, intent understanding, knowledge synthesis, issue summarization, and virtual agent to drive employee, customer, agent and developer productivity for our customers. Traditionally, business processes have been embedded in separate enterprise technology systems, such as finance, human resources ( HR ), sales and customer support, which have become disconnected, siloed and complex, offering limited flexibility and adaptability. They also fail to provide the intuitive and empowering experience that users now expect from consumer-grade applications. The Now Platform offers a solution to these limitations by enabling rapid business process automation across enterprise technology systems that keeps pace with a rapidly changing environment. We believe a better service and end-user experience, and organizational agility are the ultimate desired outcomes of digital transformation. The Now Platform enables our customers digital transformation from non-integrated enterprise technology solutions with manual and disconnected processes and activities, to integrated enterprise technology solutions with automation and connected processes and activities. The transformation to digital operations, enabled by the Now Platform, increases our customers resiliency and security and delivers great experiences and additional value to their C-suite, employees and consumers. The Now Platform s single data model and architecture allows work to be done across the enterprise with a unified, consumer-grade user experience. For example, a new employee can use ServiceNow to complete onboarding tasks seamlessly. Through an integrated ServiceNow workflow, our consumer-grade mobile application guides the employee through onboarding tasks originating from ServiceNow or other systems, automating tasks across multiple functions such 1 Table of Contents as HR, IT, facilities and more. Similarly, the Now Platform enables customer service to be executed in a way that reduces customer effort, provides proactive service, empowers agents and streamlines communication and automation across departments. Because of these advantages, our customers frequently expand their use of the Now Platform. For example, many companies now have multi-year digital transformation plans that introduce the use of additional ServiceNow products and services. Our ability to help our customers solve their unique challenges, operate on their unique technologies and systems and change at their own unique pace, all on a single platform, has earned us their trust with their mission-critical operations. Our ambition to become the defining enterprise software company of the 21 st century is the driving force behind our commitment to providing exceptional customer service and our overall business strategy and is guided by our values: Wow our customers: Customers are the center of our world. We strive to deliver the best customer experiences and innovations. Win as a team: We share the same goals and have clear roles in achieving them. We deliver results as a team and enjoy the journey. Create belonging: Diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental. Belonging is the breakthrough. We lead with empathy, which means listening and acting to make everyone feel they belong with ServiceNow. Stay hungry and humble : We do not take success for granted. We are always ready to learn and evolve. We grow together, bringing fresh ideas and new perspectives. By prioritizing these values, we are able to gain our customers trust, execute on our overall business strategy and feel immensely proud that The World Works with ServiceNow. Our Products ServiceNow s product portfolio which spans our Technology, Customer and Industry, Employee, and Creator Other Workflows is delivered on the Now Platform. The products under each of our workflows help customers connect, automate and empower work across systems and silos to enable great outcomes for businesses and great experiences for people. Each year, two major platform upgrades are released, delivering new standard functionality and new standalone products to further simplify the way our customers work and enhance productivity. 2 Table of Contents The Now Platform The Now Platform is the intelligent platform for end-to-end digital transformation. It is a single platform with one data model, one code base and one architecture, enabling speed, productivity and innovation and offering a one-stop shop for automation and simplification of manual processes. It is highly flexible, scalable, and extensible. The Now Platform automates workflows across an entire enterprise by connecting disparate departments, systems, and silos in a seamless way to unlock productivity and improve experiences for both employees and customers. As the foundation for how we deliver our cross-enterprise digital workflows, the Now Platform orchestrates work across our customers cloud platforms and systems of choice, allowing our customers to get work done regardless of their current and future preferred systems of record and collaboration platforms. The automation of workflows on our platform can be enhanced by additional functionality, including, depending on the product, AI (including generative AI), machine learning, robotic process automation, process mining, performance analytics, and low-code/no-code development tools. Further, the Now Platform is uniquely positioned to bring the full potential of generative AI to the enterprise. With our recent software release, we have combined the power of the Now Platform with new generative AI features to provide AI-driven intelligence to every corner of the business. These features are offered through Now Assist, our generative AI solution available for certain products at an additional cost. We offer enterprise-ready, domain-specific large language models ( LLMs ) that power generative AI experiences on the Now Platform, and we support customer use of third-party LLMs. By infusing generative AI into the Now Platform and all ServiceNow workflows, we are enhancing every business-critical function to increase productivity, accelerate agility and deliver value for customers across all industries. The Now Platform also creates a common user experience to manage workflows across all interfaces so end users can get work done anywhere from web-based to mobile to conversation applications. Enterprises can leverage our platform s consumer-like experiences to help them deliver services such as mobile HR information and tools or ordering a computer. Our goal is to make our customers work lives as simple and as easy as their personal lives. Technology Workflows Technology Workflows help companies unite IT, technology, risk management and security operations on a single platform to deliver modern, resilient digital services aligned to our customers priorities. Our Technology products enable IT departments to serve their customers, manage their IT infrastructure, identify and remediate security vulnerabilities and threats, gain visibility across their IT resources and asset lifecycles, optimize IT costs and reduce time spent on administrative tasks. Our Technology products also drive enterprise-wide outcomes, as well as power our Customer and Industry, and Employee Workflows. Asset Management Our Asset Management product suite includes IT Asset Management and Enterprise Asset Management. IT Asset Management inventories and automates customers software, hardware and cloud asset lifecycles with workflows and analytics to track the financial, contractual and inventory details of these IT assets from end-to-end. Enterprise Asset Management inventories and automates processes across the lifecycle of a customer's physical business assets from planning, deployment, inventory management and maintenance through retirement. Cloud Observability Cloud Observability provides deep, real-time visibility into cloud-native and monolithic environments that power our customers internal- and external-facing products and services. Cloud Observability empowers site reliability engineering and application development teams to mitigate business disruption, accelerate innovation, and deliver outstanding customer experiences. ESG Management Our ESG Management product helps customers elevate their environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) programs with streamlined data collection, on-demand progress monitoring, and automated reporting. Integrations with Strategic Portfolio Management and Integrated Risk Management provide a holistic program that enables our customers to accelerate and operationalize their ESG strategies by setting material goals and policies, tracking metrics and risks, driving enterprise-wide compliance and enabling investor-grade ESG disclosure. 3 Table of Contents Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Risk Management ( IRM ) product suite helps customers manage risk and resilience in real time. IRM s capabilities include policy and compliance management, regulatory change management, compliance case management, IT and operational risk management, audit management, business continuity management, privacy management, and third party and vendor risk management. IT Operations Management Our IT Operations Management product helps identify, monitor and manage a customer s physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure. It identifies a customer s IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated digital services (e.g., email), which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premises or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. IT Service Management Our IT Service Management ( ITSM ) product, powered by AI, defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates the digital services that an enterprise offers its employees, customers and partners. ITSM s capabilities include, among others, predictive intelligence, Virtual Agent, incident management and response, routine task and request automation, performance analytics and process optimization capabilities. Now Assist for ITSM, a generative AI solution, can help improve agent productivity and the employee experience with faster, more seamless resolutions. It provides summaries of Virtual Agent interactions and incident history so agents can efficiently resolve incidents. Upon incident closure, solution notes are generated to speed wrap times and adhere to incident management best practices. Security Operations Our Security Operations product suite connects security with the rest of the enterprise, integrating internal and third-party security and vulnerability data to quickly respond to security incidents and vulnerabilities, prioritized according to their potential impact on a customer s business. Strategic Portfolio Management Our Strategic Portfolio Management ( SPM ) product enables customers to drive business outcomes by aligning their strategy with investments and execution. SPM helps customers plan, visualize and track value realization across their portfolio of projects, initiatives and digital products all on one platform. Customer and Industry Workflows Customer and Industry Workflows help organizations reduce costs while delivering seamless experiences with connected digital workflows that deliver modern customer experiences and industry-specific use cases. Customer and Industry Workflows help customers elevate their customer service with enhanced resolution efficiency and improved service quality made possible with workflows, automation, AI, and location-based work tasks management. Customer service departments no longer need to rely on agents searching multiple systems to find a single resolution to customer requests. Integrating front-end customer service capabilities with operations, order fulfillment and field service resources, our Customer and Industry Workflows products help create a seamless customer experience from request to resolution through connected digital workflows that deliver fast support on a customer s channel of choice. Customer Service Management Our Customer Service Management ( CSM ) product helps teams deliver seamless customer service experiences by connecting front, middle and back offices, optimizing omnichannel self-service automated issue resolution, and enabling agents with real-time intelligence. Additionally, with CSM, companies can route work to the right agent based on priority and category, decreasing errors by surfacing recommended solutions based on prior cases and interactions. Now Assist for CSM, a generative AI solution, rapidly generates summaries for cases and chats, reduces manual work, and allows agents to resolve customer issues faster. This solution helps accelerate time to resolution, reduce case volume, and personalize service, which leads to reduced customer effort and increased customer satisfaction. 4 Table of Contents Field Service Management Our Field Service Management product automates and streamlines field service processes to increase technician productivity, improve first time fix rates, and optimize field technician dispatching. With work order management, schedule optimization, dispatching, and preventative maintenance all in one, field service agents can be assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident. Organizations can streamline resource management and empower technicians with job details, customer information, and parts required to maximize effectiveness and deliver great customer experiences. Industry We offer industry solutions to better address the unique needs for specific industries, including banking, insurance, telecommunications, technology, healthcare, life sciences, manufacturing and the global public sector. We expect the number of industry-specific solutions to grow as we gain adoption in new industries. With Telecom Service Management, Order Management for Telecom, Network Inventory Management, and Telecom Service Operations Management, customers can streamline service experiences to maximize investments, scale their order management process, launch services quickly, enhance customer care, automate service assurance, gain real-time data visibility and optimize their network management on a single platform. With Healthcare and Life Sciences Service Management and Clinical Device Management, customers can offer consumer-grade experiences, enhance patient care, unlock productivity, streamline operations and efficiently manage and service clinical devices. With Technology Provider Service Management and Order Management for Technology Providers, service providers can help customer and operations teams work together to accelerate speed to market for new solutions and reduce costs while delivering a seamless experience. With Manufacturing Connected Workforce and Operational Technology Management, customers can empower their workforce with digital tools and knowledge to improve efficiency and create a single system of action for their operational environment, improve uptime and drive outcomes across their operations. With Financial Services Operations, banking and insurance customers can unite their front, middle and back offices to improve customer and employee experiences while reducing operating costs. With Public Sector Digital Services, public sector customers of all sizes can build a seamless experience to increase trust, empathy and transparency between government agencies and constituents, and connect government agencies with each other on a single digital platform. Employee Workflows Employee Workflows transform the employee experience by making it easier for them to work and collaborate where and how they want, improving productivity, agility and performance. Employee Workflows products also help customers unlock skills and capabilities of their workforce by being more efficient with their employee resources, staffing and delivery services, increasing our customers ability to streamline and gain visibility into employee lifecycle events. HR Service Delivery Our HR Service Delivery product helps organizations manage employee requests by defining, structuring, consolidating, managing and automating HR services. HR Service Delivery capabilities include HR case management, 5 Table of Contents employee self-service, manager experiences, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events across multiple departments, such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. Now Assist for HR Service Delivery, a generative AI solution, helps HR leaders drive productivity and operational efficiency, reduces redundant, manual tasks for HR teams, and gets employees the answers they need quickly. From payroll discrepancies to employee information updates, HR managers can resolve a range of issues quickly by reviewing instant summaries of case topics, previous history of live chat and Virtual Agent interactions, prior resolutions and actions taken. Legal Service Delivery Our Legal Service Delivery product helps corporate legal teams modernize internal legal operations to manage legal requests across the enterprise. With Legal Service Delivery, legal teams can deliver support efficiently by deploying specialized practice area workflows, utilizing automated responses and getting insight into demand with real-time reporting and dashboards. Workplace Service Delivery Our Workplace Service Delivery product helps organizations manage workplace services, facilities and real estate. With Workplace Service Delivery, companies can optimize their workspace with real-time analytics and indoor mapping capabilities, and can automate workplace requests, reservations and repairs, and track health and safety incidents to keep workplaces running smoothly. Creator Other Workflows Creator Workflows help customers build and manage cross-enterprise workflows fast with a low-code development experience that safely delivers agile services at scale and with features such as those that allow customers to manage security and storage. As organizations digitally transform, they need to adapt faster with new processes and business models. This requires faster, more agile execution with more automation delivered throughout an organization s business processes. With Creator Workflows, citizen developers have access to pre-built templates, low-code tools and modular building blocks created by professional developers. We enable Creator Workflows through App Engine and Automation Engine, among other products. To help customers in key business functions, we also enable Other Workflows through Platform Privacy and Security and Source-to-Pay Operations, among other products. With Now Assist for Creator, a generative AI solution, development teams can create and scale apps more quickly on the Now Platform. Trained on code from ServiceNow engineering, results generated with Now Assist for Creator are generally higher quality and more scalable and secure than any other code generation technology. This solution includes the general availability of text-to-code, which converts natural language text into high-quality code suggestions, and in some cases into complete code, enabling faster development and increased productivity. App Engine Our App Engine product empowers our customers employees to create enterprise-class workflows using low-code and no-code development tooling and does not require formal coding experience. App Engine delivers intuitive and intelligent development experiences, designed for speed, security and scale. Examples of the types of workflows our customers have developed using App Engine include: an application for a retailer to manage the workflow for loss prevention, fraud protection and asset protection in retail locations; an application to manage licensing, contracting and compliance examinations and financial reviews, replacing a months-long, manual process with a 30-minute automated process; an application to automate the manual processing of billable invoices, reducing processing time from days to minutes; and an application to provide overnight loans in different currencies for central banks. Automation Engine Our Automation Engine product helps workflows integrate by connecting or automating systems, documents or tasks with minimal code. Manual work can be eliminated by leveraging robotic process automation and intelligent document processing capabilities. Automation Engine includes process mining capabilities that can uncover trends and patterns in business processes and help eliminate redundancies, drive process optimization, along with cost and productivity efficiencies. 6 Table of Contents Platform Privacy and Security Our Platform Privacy and Security product provides premium security and privacy controls to help ServiceNow customers protect and control their sensitive data in the cloud. Source-to-Pay Operations Our Source-to-Pay Operations (formerly, Procurement Operations Management) suite connects to customers existing enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) systems and provides a source-to-pay workflow automation solution that enables procurement departments to create a unified work experience across teams. It enables organizations to do more with their existing procurement teams and to further scale without dramatically increasing staff. Customer Success, Support and Professional Services Impact ServiceNow Impact helps our customers accelerate the value they realize with our products and solutions. It provides customers AI-based software tools that offer customers recommendations to proactively monitor platform health and allow customers to track metrics of value to them. Impact customers also have access to a team of on-demand experts, training and other services. Professional Services Our Professional Services are offered by ServiceNow alone and in a co-delivery model with our network of partners to help customers maximize the value of their ServiceNow investment. Our Professional Services include process design, implementation, configuration, architecture and optimization services. With our prescriptive methodology as the foundation for customer success, our services bring together our experts and leading practices enabling our customers to create value and drive customer outcomes as they embark on enterprise digital transformations through the use of our platform. Our training services include programs for all of our products. Customer Support Customers receive standard and enhanced support from technical resources located around the globe. We offer customer support on a subscription-based model, and we offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base articles, online training, online support forums and online case creation. Our Technology and Operations We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application logic and databases. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and control. Our cloud infrastructure primarily consists of industry-standard servers, networks and storage components. We host our full software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) experience on our own private cloud and use public cloud service providers for customers that are primarily in highly regulated markets or at their request. Our data centers operate in paired configurations to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We currently operate data centers in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia , and we continuously evaluate our data center operations and capacity in existing and new geographies. We offer customers the option to deploy our services on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to allow customers the option of deploying our services internally in their own data centers or under contract with a third party to host the software in order to support unique regulatory or security requirements. While there are some limitations on agility and flexibility as compared to our cloud offering, a minority of our customers have elected the third-party alternative. The standard and enhanced customer support we provide for self-hosted customers is similar to the support we provide to customers deployed in our managed data centers. 7 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products and services to enterprises across industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, telecommunications, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, education and consumer products. We sell our product offerings and services through subscription services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell services through managed service providers and resale partners. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, digital advertising (including via our website), trade shows, industry events, brand campaigns and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge user conference, webinars and other user forums, including reg