Item 1 Business 8 Item 1A Risk Factors 23 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 2 Properties 39 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 40 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 40 PART II 41 Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 43 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 74 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 76 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 77 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 77 Item 9B Other Information 80 PART III 80 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 80 Item 11 Executive Compensation 83 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 83 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 84 PART IV 85 Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 85 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 181 EXHIBIT INDEX 178 2 Glossary of Terms When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below: 2023 Term Loan Facility The Company's $1.7 billion (as of December 31, 2018) term loan facility due 2023, a component of the Senior Credit Facility, which was repaid during the second quarter of 2019 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ARO Asset Retirement Obligation ASC The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, which the FASB established as the source of authoritative GAAP ASU Accounting Standards Updates updates to the ASC Average realized prices Volume-weighted average power prices, net of average fuel costs and reflecting the impact of settled hedges Bankruptcy Code Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code Bankruptcy Court United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division Baseload Units expected to satisfy minimum baseload requirements of the system and produce electricity at an essentially constant rate and run continuously BETM Boston Energy Trading and Marketing LLC BTU British Thermal Unit Business Solutions NRG's business solutions group, which includes demand response, commodity sales, energy efficiency and energy management services CAA Clean Air Act CAISO California Independent System Operator Carlsbad Carlsbad Energy Center, a 528 MW natural gas-fired project located in Carlsbad, CA CCF Carbon Capture Facility CCR Coal Combustion Residuals CDD Cooling Degree Day CDWR California Department of Water Resources CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chapter 11 Cases Voluntary cases commenced by the GenOn Entities under the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court C I Commercial, industrial and governmental/institutional CES Clean Energy Standard Cleco Cleco Corporate Holdings LLC CO 2 Carbon Dioxide CO 2e Carbon Dioxide Equivalents ComEd Commonwealth Edison Company NRG Energy, Inc. Convertible Senior Notes As of December 31, 2019, consists of NRG s $575 million unsecured 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2048 Cottonwood Cottonwood Generating Station, a 1,153 MW natural gas-fueled plant CPP Clean Power Plan CPUC California Public Utilities Commission CWA Clean Water Act D.C. Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit Distributed Solar Solar power projects that primarily sell power to customers for usage on site, or are interconnected to sell power into a local distribution grid DNREC Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control DSI Dry Sorbent Injection DSU Deferred Stock Unit 3 Economic gross margin Sum of energy revenue, capacity revenue, retail revenue and other revenue, less cost of fuels and other cost of sales EGU Electric Generating Unit Emani European Mutual Association for Nuclear Insurance EME Edison Mission Energy EMAAC Eastern Mid-Atlantic Area Council Energy Plus Holdings Energy Plus Holdings LLC EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, the Independent System Operator and the regional reliability coordinator of the various electricity systems within Texas ESCO Energy Service Companies ESP Electrostatic Precipitator ESPP NRG Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPS Existing Source Performance Standards Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FGD Flue gas desulfurization FPA Federal Power Act FTRs Financial Transmission Rights GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. GenConn GenConn Energy LLC GenOn GenOn Energy, Inc. GenOn Americas Generation GenOn Americas Generation, LLC GenOn Entities GenOn and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, including GenOn Americas Generation, that filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court on June 14, 2017 GenOn Mid-Atlantic GenOn Mid-Atlantic, LLC and, except where the context indicates otherwise, its subsidiaries, which include the coal generation units at two generating facilities under operating leases GHG Greenhouse Gas GIP Global Infrastructure Partners Green Mountain Energy Green Mountain Energy Company Guam NRG's wholly owned subsidiary NRG Solar Guam, LLC that was sold during the first quarter of 2019 GW Gigawatt GWh Gigawatt Hour HAP Hazardous Air Pollutant HDD Heating Degree Day Heat Rate A measure of thermal efficiency computed by dividing the total BTU content of the fuel burned by the resulting kWhs generated. Heat rates can be expressed as either gross or net heat rates, depending whether the electricity output measured is gross or net generation and is generally expressed as BTU per net kWh HLBV Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value HLW High-level radioactive waste IPPNY Independent Power Producers of New York ISO Independent System Operator, also referred to as RTOs ISO-NE ISO New England Inc. ITC Investment Tax Credit 4 kWh Kilowatt-hour LaGen Louisiana Generating LLC LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate LSE Load Serving Entities LTIPs Collectively, the NRG LTIP and the NRG GenOn LTIP LTSA Long-Term Service Agreement Mass Market Residential and small commercial customers MATS Mercury and Air Toxics Standards promulgated by the EPA MDth Thousand Dekatherms Merger The merger completed on December 14, 2012 by NRG and GenOn pursuant to the Merger Agreement Midwest Generation Midwest Generation, LLC MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. MMBtu Million British Thermal Units MMDth Million Dekatherms MSU Market Stock Unit MW Megawatts MWh Saleable megawatt hour net of internal/parasitic load megawatt-hour NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards NEIL Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited NEPOOL New England Power Pool NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation Net Capacity Factor The net amount of electricity that a generating unit produces over a period of time divided by the net amount of electricity it could have produced if it had run at full power over that time period. The net amount of electricity produced is the total amount of electricity generated minus the amount of electricity used during generation Net Exposure Counterparty credit exposure to NRG, net of collateral Net Generation The net amount of electricity produced, expressed in kWhs or MWhs, that is the total amount of electricity generated (gross) minus the amount of electricity used during generation NJBPU New Jersey Board of Public Utilities NOL Net Operating Loss NO x Nitrogen Oxides NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System NPNS Normal Purchase Normal Sale NQSO Non-Qualified Stock Option NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRG NRG Energy, Inc. NRG GenOn LTIP NRG 2010 Stock Plan for GenOn Employees (formerly the GenOn Energy, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan, which was assumed by NRG in connection with the Merger) NRG LTIP NRG Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan NRG Yield, Inc. NRG Yield, Inc., which changed it's name to Clearway energy, Inc. following the sale by NRG or NRG Yield and the Renewables Platform to GIP Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund NRG's nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, which are for the Company's portion of the decommissioning of the STP, units 1 2 Nuclear Waste Policy Act U.S. Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 NYISO New York Independent System Operator NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange NYSDEC New York State Department of Environmental Conservation NYSPSC New York State Public Service Commission 5 OCI/OCL Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) ORDC Operating Reserve Demand Curve Peaking Units expected to satisfy demand requirements during the periods of greatest or peak load on the system PER Peak Energy Rent PG E PG E Corporation (NYSE: PCG) and its primary operating subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company Pipeline Projects that range from identified lead to shortlisted with an offtake, and represents a lower level of execution certainty PJM PJM Interconnection, LLC PM2.5 Particulate Matter that has a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers PPA Power Purchase Agreement PPM Parts per million PSU Performance Stock Unit PTC Production Tax Credit PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas RCE Residential Customer Equivalent, a single RCE represents 10,000 kWh of electricity RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 RECs Renewable Energy Certificates Reliant Energy Reliant Energy Retail Services, LLC REMA NRG REMA LLC, which leases a 100% interest in the Shawville generating facility and 16.7% and 16.5% interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities, respectively Renewables Consist of the following projects retained by NRG: Agua, Ivanpah, NFL stadiums Renewables Platform The renewable operating and development platform sold to GIP with NRG's interest in NRG Yield. Restructuring Support Agreement Restructuring Support and Lock-Up Agreement, dated as of June 12, 2017 and as amended on October 2, 2017, by and among GenOn Energy, Inc., GenOn Americas Generation, LLC, and subsidiaries signatory thereto, NRG Energy, Inc. and the noteholders signatory thereto Retail Reporting segment that includes NRG's retail residential, commercial and industrial businesses Revolving Credit Facility The Company's $2.6 billion revolving credit facility, a component of the Senior Credit Facility, due 2024 was amended on May 28, 2019 RGGI Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RMR Reliability Must-Run ROFO Right of First Offer ROFO Agreement Second Amended and Restated Right of First Offer Agreement by and between NRG Energy, Inc. and NRG Yield, Inc. RPM Reliability Pricing Model RPS Renewable Portfolio Standards RPSU Relative Performance Stock Unit RSU Restricted Stock Unit RTO Regional Transmission Organization SCE Southern California Edison Company SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction Control System SDG E San Diego Gas Electric SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act The Securities Act of 1933, as amended Senior Credit Facility NRG's senior secured credit facility, comprised of the Revolving Credit Facility and the 2023 Term Loan Facility. The 2023 Term Loan Facility was repaid in the second quarter of 2019 6 Senior Notes As of December 31, 2019, NRG's $3.8 billion outstanding unsecured senior notes consisting of $1.0 billion of the 7.25% senior notes due 2026, $1.23 billion of the 6.625% senior notes due 2027, $821 million of 5.75% senior notes due 2028 and $733 million of the 5.25% senior notes due 2029 Senior Secured Notes As of December 31, 2019, NRG s $1.1 billion outstanding Senior Secured First Lien Notes consists of $600 million of the 3.75% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2024 and $500 million of the 4.45% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2029 Services Agreement NRG provided GenOn with various management, personnel and other services, which include human resources, regulatory and public affairs, accounting, tax, legal, information systems, treasury, risk management, commercial operations, and asset management, as set forth in the services agreement with GenOn Settlement Agreement A settlement agreement and any other documents necessary to effectuate the settlement among NRG, GenOn, and certain holders of senior unsecured notes of GenOn Americas Generations and GenOn, and certain of GenOn's direct and indirect subsidiaries SNF Spent Nuclear Fuel SO 2 Sulfur Dioxide South Central Portfolio NRG's South Central Portfolio, which owned and operated a portfolio of generation assets consisting of Bayou Cove, Big Cajun-I, Big Cajun-II, Cottonwood and Sterlington, was sold on February 4, 2019. NRG is leasing back the Cottonwood facility through May 2025 SPP Solar Power Partners S P Standard Poor's STP South Texas Project nuclear generating facility located near Bay City, Texas in which NRG owns a 44% interest STPNOC South Texas Project Nuclear Operating Company Tax Act The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 Texas Genco Texas Genco LLC TSA Transportation Services Agreement TSR Total Shareholder Return TWCC Texas Westmoreland Coal Co. TWh Terawatt Hour UPMC University of Pittsburgh Medical Center U.S. United States of America U.S. DOE U.S. Department of Energy Utility-Scale Solar Solar power projects, typically 20 MW or greater in size (on an alternating current basis), that are interconnected into the transmission or distribution grid to sell power at a wholesale level VaR Value at Risk VIE Variable Interest Entity WECC Western Electricity Coordinating Council ZECs Zero Emissions Credits 7 PART I Item 1 Business General NRG Energy, Inc., or NRG or the Company, is an integrated power company built on dynamic retail brands with diverse generation assets. NRG brings the power of energy to customers by producing and selling electricity and related products and services in major competitive power markets in the U.S. and Canada in a manner that delivers value to all of NRG's stakeholders. NRG is a customer-driven business focused on perfecting the integrated model by balancing retail load with generation supply within its deregulated markets. The Company sells energy, services, and innovative, sustainable products and services directly to retail customers under the brand names NRG, Reliant, Green Mountain Energy, Stream, and XOOM Energy, as well as other brand names owned by NRG, supported by approximately 23,000 MW of generation as of December 31, 2019. NRG was incorporated as a Delaware corporation on May 29, 1992. NRG divested non-core businesses including, among others: (i) NRG Yield, Inc. and the Renewables Platform during 2018; and (ii) the South Central Portfolio during 2019. The Company previously owned GenOn Energy, Inc. which filed for bankruptcy on June 14, 2017. As a result of the bankruptcy filing, NRG determined it no longer controlled GenOn and deconsolidated GenOn and its subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes. On December 14, 2018, GenOn emerged from bankruptcy as a standalone company no longer owned by NRG. Since 2017, the Company has been executing its three-year Transformation Plan, which includes targets related to operations and cost excellence, portfolio optimization, and capital structure and allocation enhancement. See Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations for further discussion. Strategy NRG's strategy is to maximize stockholder value through the safe production and sale of reliable power to its customers in the markets it serves, while positioning the Company to provide innovative solutions to the end-use energy customer. This strategy is intended to enable the Company to optimize its integrated model to generate stable and predictable cash flow, significantly strengthen earnings and cost competitiveness, and lower risk and volatility. To effectuate the Company s strategy, NRG is focused on: (i) serving the energy needs of end-use residential, commercial and industrial customers in competitive markets through multiple brands and channels with a variety of retail energy products and services differentiated by innovative features, premium service, sustainability, and loyalty/affinity programs; (ii) offering innovative and renewable energy solutions for customers; (iii) excellence in operating performance of its existing assets; (iv) optimal hedging of NRG's net retail and generation positions; and (v) engaging in disciplined and transparent capital allocation. Sustainability is an integral piece of NRG's strategy and ties directly to business success, reduced risks and brand value. On September 24, 2019, NRG announced the acceleration of its science-based GHG emissions reduction goals to align with prevailing climate science, limiting warming to a 1.5 degree Celsius scenario. Under its new GHG emissions reduction timeline, NRG is targeting to achieve a 50% reduction by 2025 and net-zero emissions by 2050, from a 2014 baseline. Business Overview The Company s core business is the sale of electricity and natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers, supported by the Company's wholesale generation. Beginning in 2020, the Company is managing its integrated model based on the combined results of the retail and wholesale generation businesses. The Company s integrated model consists of three core functions: Customer Operations, Market Operations and Plant Operations, which directly support each other in each geographic region. The Company s integrated model provides the advantage of being able to supply the Company s retail customers with electricity from the Company s assets, which reduces the need to sell power to and buy power from other institutions and intermediaries, resulting in stable earnings and cash flows, lower transaction costs and less credit exposure. The integrated model also results in a reduction in actual and contingent collateral through offsetting transactions, thereby minimizing transactions with third parties. NRG provides energy and related services to residential, industrial and commercial customers at either fixed, indexed or variable prices through various brands and sales channels across the U.S. and Canada. Residential and small commercial (Mass market) customers typically contract for terms ranging from one month to five years, while industrial and large commercial (C I) contracts are often between one year and five years in length. NRG sold approximately 69 TWhs of electricity and 23 MMDth of natural gas in 2019 and served approximately 3.7 million customers as of December 31, 2019, making it one of the largest competitive energy retailers in the U.S. In any given year, the quantity of TWhs and MMDth sold can be affected by weather, economic conditions and competition. As of the end of 2019, NRG had recurring electricity and/or natural gas sales in 8 19 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and 2 provinces in Canada. NRG's retail brands, collectively, have the largest share of competitively served residential electric customers in Texas and nationwide. The vast majority of the Company s business is in Texas, where the Company s generation supply is fully integrated with its retail load. In the East, the Company s retail load is more disperse throughout the region and not fully integrated with the Company s generation supply due to the location of its power plants in that region. In the West, the Company s business is primarily generation supply. The charts below illustrate NRG's U.S. retail capabilities, power generation and net capacity as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019: Customer Operations Customer Operations is responsible for growing and retaining the customer base and delivering an outstanding customer experience. This includes acquisition and retention of all of NRG s residential, small commercial, government and commercial industrial customers. NRG employs a multi-brand strategy that leverages a wide array of sales and partnership channels, direct face-to-face sales channels, call centers, websites, and brokers. Go-to-market activities include market strategy planning and development, product innovation, offer design, campaign execution, marketing and creative services, and selling. Customer portfolio maintenance and retention activities include fulfillment, billing, payment processing, collections, customer service, issue resolution, and contract renewals. Throughout all Customer Operations activities, the customer experience is kept at the forefront to inform decision-making and optimize retention, while creating supporters and advocates for NRG s brands in the market. Product Offerings NRG sells a variety of products to residential and small commercial customers including retail electricity and energy management, natural gas, home security, line and surge protection products, HVAC installation, repair and maintenance, carbon offsets, back-up power stations, portable power, portable solar and portable lighting. Mass market customers make purchase decisions based on a variety of factors, including price, incentive, customer service, brand, innovative offers/features and referrals from friends and family. Through its broad range of service offerings and value propositions, NRG is able to attract, retain, and increase the value of its customer relationships. NRG's brands are recognized for exemplary customer service, innovative smart energy and technology product offerings, and environmentally-friendly solutions. The Company also provides retail services, including demand response, commodity sales, energy efficiency and energy management solutions to C I customers. The Company is an integrated provider of supply and distributed energy resources and focuses on distributed products and services as businesses seek greater reliability, cleaner power and/or other benefits that they cannot obtain from the grid. These solutions include system power, distributed generation, renewable products, carbon management and specialty services, backup generation, storage and distributed solar, demand response, and energy efficiency and advisory services. In providing on-site energy solutions, the Company often benefits from its ability to supply energy products from its wholesale generation portfolio to C I customers. In 2019, the Company sold approximately 20 TWhs of electricity to C I customers and managed approximately 2,000 MWs of demand response positions across its portfolio. 9 Market Operations Market Operations has two primary objectives: (i) to supply load to our customers in the most cost-efficient manner; and (ii) to maximize the value of any excess generation after satisfying the Company s customer load requirements. These objectives are intended to reduce supply costs and maximize earnings with predictable cash flows. To meet these objectives, NRG enters into supply, power sales and hedging arrangements via a wide range of products and contracts, including (i) renewable PPAs, (ii) capacity auctions and other contracted revenue sources, (iii) fuel supply and transportation contracts, and (iv) natural gas derivative instruments and other financial instruments. In addition, because changes in power prices in the markets where NRG operates are generally correlated to changes in natural gas prices, NRG uses hedging strategies that may include power and natural gas forward purchases and sales contracts to manage the commodity price risk. Renewable PPAs During 2019, NRG began procuring mid to long-term renewable generation through power purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2019, NRG has entered into PPAs in Texas totaling approximately 1,600 MWs with third-party project developers and other counterparties. The average tenor of these agreements is ten years. The Company expects to continue evaluating and executing agreements, such as these, that support the needs of the business. Capacity and Other Contracted Revenue Sources NRG's revenues and cash flows, primarily in the East and West, benefit from capacity/demand payments and other contracted revenue sources, originating from market clearing capacity prices, resource adequacy contracts, tolling arrangements and other long-term contractual arrangements. The Company's largest sources of capacity revenues are capacity auctions in PJM, ISO-NE and NYISO. Both PJM and ISO-NE operate a pay-for-performance model where capacity payments are modified based on real-time performance and NRG's actual revenues will be the combination of revenues based on the cleared auction MWs plus the net of any over- and under-performance of NRG's respective generation assets. The Company primarily sells physical capacity forward through bilateral contracts for our New York assets. To the extent NRG is not able to enter into a physical bilateral contract, NRG will sell the remaining capacity into the NYISO six month strip, monthly or spot auctions 2023/2024 ISO-NE Auction Results - On February 5, 2020 ISO-NE announced the results of its 2023/2024 forward capacity auction. NRG cleared 784 MW of capacity. NRG's expected capacity revenues from the auction for the 2023/2024 delivery year are approximately $18 million. PJM Auction Results PJM announced during 2019 it was suspending all auction deadlines relating to Base Residual Auctions for 2022/2023 and 2023/2024 delivery year, consistent with FERC s July 25, 2019 Order. Refer to the Capacity Market Reforms Filing discussion within the Regional Regulatory Developments section below for further discussion. In California, there is a resource adequacy requirement that is primarily satisfied through bilateral contracts. Such bilateral contracts are typically short-term resource adequacy contracts. When bilateral contracting does not satisfy the resource adequacy need, such shortfalls can be addressed through procurement tools administered by the CAISO, including the capacity procurement mechanism or reliability must-run contracts. Fuel Supply and Transportation NRG's fuel requirements consist of various forms of fossil fuel and nuclear fuel. The prices of fossil fuels can be volatile. The Company obtains its fossil fuels from multiple suppliers and through multiple transporters. Although availability is generally not an issue, localized shortages, transportation availability, delays arising from extreme weather conditions and supplier financial stability issues can and do occur. The preceding factors related to the sources and availability of raw materials are fairly uniform across the Company's business and fuel products used. NRG's primary fuel requirements consist of the following: Natural Gas NRG operates a fleet of mid-merit and peaking natural gas plants across all its U.S. wholesale regions. Fuel needs are managed on a spot basis, especially for peaking assets, as the Company does not believe it is prudent to forward purchase natural gas for these types of units as the dispatch is highly unpredictable. The Company contracts for natural gas storage services, as well as natural gas transportation services to deliver natural gas when needed. 10 Coal The Company believes it is adequately hedged, using forward coal supply agreements, for its domestic coal consumption for 2020. NRG actively manages its coal requirements based on forecasted generation, market volatility and its inventory on site. As of December 31, 2019, NRG had purchased forward contracts to provide fuel for approximately 58% of the Company's expected requirements for 2020 and 2021 per the table below. NRG purchased approximately 17 million tons of coal in 2019, almost all of which was Powder River Basin coal. For fuel transport, NRG has entered into various rail transportation and rail car lease agreements with varying tenures that will provide for most of the Company's transportation requirements of Powder River Basin coal for the next 2 years. The following table shows the percentage of the Company's coal requirements for 2020 and 2021 that have been purchased forward as of December 31, 2019: Percentage of Company's Requirement 2020 100 % 2021 16 % Nuclear Fuel STP's owners satisfy their fuel supply requirements by: (i) acquiring uranium concentrates and contracting for conversion of the uranium concentrates into uranium hexafluoride; (ii) contracting for enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; and (iii) contracting for fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies. Through its proportionate participation in STPNOC, which is the NRC-licensed operator of STP that is responsible for all aspects of fuel procurement, NRG is party to a number of long-term forward purchase contracts with many of the world's largest suppliers covering STP's requirements for uranium concentrates with only approximately 25% of STP's requirements outstanding for the duration of the original operating license. Similarly, NRG is party to long-term contracts to procure STP's requirements for conversion and enrichment services and fuel fabrication for the life of the operating license. Since the operating license was renewed for another 20 years in 2017, STPNOC has begun to review a second phase of fuel purchasing. Natural Gas Derivative Instruments and Other Financial Instruments NRG also trades electric power, natural gas and related commodity and financial products, including forwards, futures, options and swaps. Plant Operations The Company owns a diversified power generation portfolio with approximately 23,000 MW of fossil fuel, nuclear and renewable generation capacity at 32 plants as of December 31, 2019. The Company's power generation assets are diversified by fuel-type, dispatch level and region, which helps mitigate the risks associated with fuel price volatility and market demand cycles. NRG continually evaluates its generatio