Item 1 Business 7 Item 1A Risk Factors 24 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 2 Properties 40 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 41 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 41 PART II 42 Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6 Reserved 43 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 76 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 76 Item 9B Other Information 79 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 79 PART III 80 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 80 Item 11 Executive Compensation 80 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 81 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 81 PART IV 82 Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 166 EXHIBIT INDEX 160 2 Glossary of Terms When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below: ACE Affordable Clean Energy Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ARO Asset Retirement Obligation ASC The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, which the FASB established as the source of authoritative GAAP ASU Accounting Standards Updates updates to the ASC AUC Alberta Utilities Commission Average realized prices Volume-weighted average power prices, net of average fuel costs and reflecting the impact of settled hedges Bankruptcy Code Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code Bankruptcy Court United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division Baseload Units expected to satisfy minimum baseload requirements of the system and produce electricity at an essentially constant rate and run continuously Brazos Brazos Electric Power Cooperative, Inc. BTU British Thermal Unit Business NRG Business, which serves business customers CAA Clean Air Act CAISO California Independent System Operator CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act Carlsbad Carlsbad Energy Center, a 528 MW natural gas-fired project located in Carlsbad, CA CCR Coal Combustion Residuals CDD Cooling Degree Day Centrica Centrica plc CES Clean Energy Standard CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Cleco Cleco Corporate Holdings LLC CO 2 Carbon Dioxide CO 2 e Carbon Dioxide Equivalents ComEd Commonwealth Edison Company NRG Energy, Inc. Convertible Senior Notes As of December 31, 2021, consists of NRG s $575 million unsecured 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2048 Cottonwood Cottonwood Generating Station, a 1,177 MW natural gas-fueled plant COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019 CPP Clean Power Plan CPUC California Public Utilities Commission CWA Clean Water Act D.C. Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit Distributed Solar Solar power projects that primarily sell power to customers for usage on site, or are interconnected to sell power into a local distribution grid DSI Dry Sorbent Injection DSU Deferred Stock Unit Dual fuel customers Customer that have both electricity and natural gas service with the Company Economic gross margin Sum of energy revenue, capacity revenue, retail revenue and other revenue, less cost of fuels and other cost of sales EGU Electric Generating Unit 3 EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, the Independent System Operator and the regional reliability coordinator of the various electricity systems within Texas ESCO Energy Service Companies ESP Electrostatic Precipitator ESPP NRG Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FGD Flue gas desulfurization FPA Federal Power Act FTRs Financial Transmission Rights GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. GenOn GenOn Energy, Inc. GenOn Entities GenOn and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, including GenOn Americas Generation, LLC, that filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court on June 14, 2017 GHG Greenhouse Gas GIP Global Infrastructure Partners Green Mountain Energy Green Mountain Energy Company GW Gigawatts GWh Gigawatt Hours HDD Heating Degree Day Heat Rate A measure of thermal efficiency computed by dividing the total BTU content of the fuel burned by the resulting kWhs generated. Heat rates can be expressed as either gross or net heat rates, depending whether the electricity output measured is gross or net generation and is generally expressed as BTU per net kWh HLBV Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value HLW High-level radioactive waste Home NRG Home, which serves residential customers ICE Intercontinental Exchange ISO Independent System Operator, also referred to as RTOs ISO-NE ISO New England Inc. Ivanpah Ivanpah Solar Electric Generation Station, a 393 MW solar thermal power plant located in California's Mojave Desert in which NRG owns 54.5% interest kWh Kilowatt-hours LaGen Louisiana Generating LLC LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate LSE Load Serving Entities LTIPs Collectively, the NRG LTIP and the NRG GenOn LTIP MATS Mercury and Air Toxics Standards promulgated by the EPA MDth Thousand Dekatherms Merger The merger completed on December 14, 2012 by NRG and GenOn pursuant to the Merger Agreement Midwest Generation Midwest Generation, LLC MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. MMBtu Million British Thermal Units MMDth Million Dekatherms 4 MSU Market Stock Unit MW Megawatts MWe Megawatt equivalent MWh Saleable megawatt hour net of internal/parasitic load megawatt-hour NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards NEIL Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited NEPOOL New England Power Pool NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation Net Capacity Factor The net amount of electricity that a generating unit produces over a period of time divided by the net amount of electricity it could have produced if it had run at full power over that time period. The net amount of electricity produced is the total amount of electricity generated minus the amount of electricity used during generation Net Exposure Counterparty credit exposure to NRG, net of collateral Net Generation The net amount of electricity produced, expressed in kWhs or MWhs, that is the total amount of electricity generated (gross) minus the amount of electricity used during generation Net Revenue Rate Sum of retail revenues less TDSP transportation charges NOL Net Operating Loss NO x Nitrogen Oxides NPNS Normal Purchase Normal Sale NQSO Non-Qualified Stock Option NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRG NRG Energy, Inc. NRG GenOn LTIP NRG 2010 Stock Plan for GenOn Employees (formerly the GenOn Energy, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan, which was assumed by NRG in connection with the Merger) NRG LTIP NRG Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan NRG Yield, Inc. NRG Yield, Inc., which changed its name to Clearway energy, Inc. following the sale by NRG or NRG Yield and the Renewables Platform to GIP Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund NRG's nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, which are for the Company's portion of the decommissioning of the STP, units 1 2 Nuclear Waste Policy Act U.S. Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 NYISO New York Independent System Operator NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange NYSDEC New York State Department of Environmental Conservation OCI/OCL Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) ORDC Operating Reserve Demand Curve ORDPA Online Reliability Deployment Price Adder Peaking Units expected to satisfy demand requirements during the periods of greatest or peak load on the system Petra Nova Petra Nova Parish Holdings, LLC Pipeline Projects that range from identified lead to shortlisted with an offtake, and represents a lower level of execution certainty PJM PJM Interconnection, LLC PM2.5 Particulate Matter that has a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers PPA Power Purchase Agreement PPM Parts per million PSU Performance Stock Unit PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas Rayburn Rayburn Country Electric Cooperative, Inc. RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 5 Receivables Securitization Facilities Collectively, the Receivables Facility and the Repurchase Facility RECs Renewable Energy Certificates Renewables Consists of the following projects in which NRG has an ownership interest: Agua Caliente, Ivanpah, and solar generating stations located at various NFL Stadiums Renewables Platform The renewable operating and development platform sold to GIP with NRG's interest in NRG Yield. Revolving Credit Facility The Company's $3.7 billion revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2021, a component of the Senior Credit Facility, due 2024 was amended on May 28, 2019 and August 20, 2020 RGGI Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RMR Reliability Must-Run RPS Renewable Portfolio Standards RPSU Relative Performance Stock Unit RSU Restricted Stock Unit RTO Regional Transmission Organization SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction Control System SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act The Securities Act of 1933, as amended Senior Credit Facility NRG's senior secured credit facility, comprised of the Revolving Credit Facility and the 2023 Term Loan Facility. The 2023 Term Loan Facility was repaid in the second quarter of 2019 Senior Notes As of December 31, 2021, NRG's $4.6 billion outstanding unsecured senior notes consisting of $375 million of the 6.625% senior notes due 2027, $821 million of 5.75% senior notes due 2028, $733 million of the 5.25% senior notes due 2029, $500 million of the 3.375% senior notes due 2029, $1.0 billion of the 3.625% senior notes due 2031 and $1.1 billion of the 3.875% senior notes due 2032 Senior Secured Notes As of December 31, 2021, NRG s $2.5 billion outstanding Senior Secured First Lien Notes consists of $600 million of the 3.75% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2024, $500 million of the 2.0% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2025, $900 million of the 2.45% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2027, and $500 million of the 4.45% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2029 SNF Spent Nuclear Fuel SO 2 Sulfur Dioxide South Central Portfolio NRG's South Central Portfolio, which owned and operated a portfolio of generation assets consisting of Bayou Cove, Big Cajun-I, Big Cajun-II, Cottonwood and Sterlington, was sold on February 4, 2019. NRG is leasing back the Cottonwood facility through May 2025 S P Standard Poor's STP South Texas Project nuclear generating facility located near Bay City, Texas in which NRG owns a 44% interest STPNOC South Texas Project Nuclear Operating Company Tax Act The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TDSP Transmission/distribution service provider Texas Genco Texas Genco LLC TSR Total Shareholder Return TWCC Texas Westmoreland Coal Co. TWh Terawatt Hours U.S. United States of America U.S. DOE U.S. Department of Energy VaR Value at Risk VIE Variable Interest Entity Winter Storm Uri A major winter and ice storm that had widespread impacts across North America occurring in February 2021 6 PART I Item 1 Business General NRG Energy, Inc., or NRG or the Company, is a consumer services company built on dynamic retail brands. NRG brings the power of energy to customers by producing and selling energy and related products and services, nation-wide in the U.S. and Canada in a manner that delivers value to all of NRG's stakeholders. NRG sells power, natural gas, and home and power services, and develops innovative, sustainable solutions, predominately under the brand names NRG, Reliant, Direct Energy, Green Mountain Energy, Stream, and XOOM Energy. The Company has a customer base that includes approximately 6 million Home customers as well as commercial, industrial, and wholesale customers, supported by approximately 18,000 MW of generation as of December 31, 2021. NRG sold 157 TWhs of electricity and 1,877 MMDth of natural gas in 2021, making it one of the largest competitive energy retailers in the U.S. As of the end of 2021, NRG had recurring electricity and/or natural gas sales in 24 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and 8 provinces in Canada. NRG's retail brands, collectively, have the largest share of competitively served residential electric customers in Texas and nationwide. The following chart represents NRG's sales volumes for the year ended December 31, 2021: Strategy NRG's strategy is to maximize stakeholder value through the safe production and sale of reliable electricity and natural gas to its customers in the markets it serves, while positioning the Company to provide innovative solutions to the end-use energy or service customer. This strategy is intended to enable the Company to optimize its integrated model to generate stable and predictable cash flow, significantly strengthen earnings and cost competitiveness, and lower risk and volatility. Sustainability is a philosophy that underpins and facilitates value creation across our business for our stakeholders. It is an integral piece of NRG's strategy and ties directly to business success, reduced risks and enhanced reputation. To effectuate the Company s strategy, NRG is focused on: (i) serving the energy needs of end-use residential, commercial and industrial, and wholesale customers in competitive markets through multiple brands and channels; (ii) offering a variety of energy products and services, including renewable energy solutions, that are differentiated by innovative features, premium service, sustainability, and loyalty/affinity programs; (iii) excellence in operating performance of its assets; (iv) optimal hedging of its portfolio; and (v) engaging in disciplined and transparent capital allocation. The 2021 fiscal year was pivotal for the Company. NRG completed the acquisition of Direct Energy, doubling the size of its retail portfolio, while further decreasing its physical generation through the sale and planned retirement of certain assets, each as further discussed below. The completion of these significant activities positioned NRG for the next phase of its strategy focusing on growth. 7 The Company implemented a four-year plan beginning in 2022 to invest up to $2 billion in order to achieve growth through optimization of the Company's core power and natural gas sales, as well as integrated solution sales within its core network in both power and home services. Significant Acquisitions, Dispositions and Announced Retirements On January 5, 2021, the Company acquired Direct Energy. Direct Energy is a leading retail provider of electricity, natural gas, and home and business energy-related products and services in North America, with operations in all 50 U.S. states and 8 Canadian provinces. The acquisition increased NRG's retail portfolio by over 3 million customers and complemented its integrated model. It also broadened the Company's presence in the Northeast and in states and locales where it did not previously operate, supporting NRG's objective to diversify its business. NRG realized its planned synergy target of $175 million in 2021 and expects to realize annual synergies of $225 million and $300 million in 2022 and 2023, respectively. See Item 15 Note 4, Acquisitions, Discontinued Operations and Dispositions , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the acquisition of Direct Energy. On December 1, 2021, the Company sold approximately 4,850 MWs of fossil generating assets from its East and West regions of operations to Generation Bridge, an affiliate of ArcLight Capital Partners. As part of the transaction, NRG entered into a tolling agreement for the 866 MW Arthur Kill plant in New York City through April 2025. See Item 15 Note 4, Acquisitions, Discontinued Operations and Dispositions , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. During the second quarter of 2021, the results of the PJM Base Residual Auction for the 2022/2023 delivery year were released, leading the Company to announce the near-term retirement of approximately 1,600 MW of its PJM coal generating assets in June 2022. On July 30, 2021, PJM identified reliability impacts resulting from the proposed deactivation of one of those assets, Indian River Unit 4. On August 27, 2021 the Company notified PJM that it would continue operations at Indian River Unit 4 until the reliability upgrades identified by PJM were completed, provided that the unit receives a satisfactory and compensatory reliability must run arrangement. See Item 15 Note 11, Asset Impairments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company is continuing to evaluate the viability of the remaining PJM generating assets. Extreme Weather Event in Texas During February 2021 and expected Uplift Securitization proceeds During February 2021, Texas experienced unprecedented cold temperatures for a prolonged duration as a result of Winter Storm Uri, resulting in a power emergency, blackouts, and an estimated all-time peak demand of 77 GW (without load shed). Ahead of the event, NRG launched residential customer communications calling for conservation across all of its brands, and initiated residential and commercial and industrial demand response programs to curtail customer load. The Company maximized available generating capacity and brought in additional resources to supplement in-state staff with technical and operating experts from the rest of its U.S. fleet. The Texas Legislature passed House Bill ("HB") 4492, which among other things, authorized ERCOT to obtain $2.1 billion of financing to distribute to LSEs that were charged and paid to ERCOT exceptionally highly priced ORDPA and ancillary service costs during Winter Storm Uri (the "Uplift Securitization"). NRG will receive $689 million from ERCOT based on LSE-level detail published by the PUCT on December 7, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2021, Winter Storm Uri's pre-tax financial impact to the Company was a loss of $380 million, which reflects the recovery of $689 million of cost of operations as a result of the proceeds NRG will receive from the Uplift Securitization discussed above, with receipt expected to occur during the second quarter of 2022. The Company continues to pursue additional mitigants including, but not limited to, customer bad debt mitigation, counterparty default recovery, and additional ERCOT default recovery. Business Overview The Company s core business is the sale of electricity and natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial and wholesale customers, supported by the Company's wholesale generation. NRG manages its operations based on the combined results of the retail and wholesale generation businesses with a geographical focus. The Company's business is segmented as follows: Texas, which includes all activity related to customer, plant and market operations in Texas; East, which includes all activity related to customer, plant and market operations in the East; West/Services/Other, which primarily includes the following assets and activities: (i) all activity related to customer, plant and market operations in the West and Canada, (ii) the services businesses, (iii) activity related to the Cottonwood facility, (iv) the remaining renewables activity, including the Company s equity method investment in Ivanpah Master Holdings, LLC, and (v) activity related to the Company s equity method investment for the Gladstone power plant in Australia; and Corporate activities. 8 As of December 31, 2021, in Texas, the Company s generation supply is fully integrated with its retail load. In the East, the Company s retail load is more dispersed throughout the region and not fully integrated with the Company s generation supply due to the locations of its power plants in that region. In the West/Services/Other, the Company s business is primarily serving retail load and services customers. The Company s integrated model consists of three core functions: Customer Operations, Market Operations and Plant Operations, which directly support each other in each geographic region. The Company s integrated model in Texas provides the advantage of being able to supply a significant portion of the Company s retail customers with electricity from the Company s assets, which reduces the need to sell electricity to and buy electricity from other institutions and intermediaries, resulting in stable earnings and cash flows, lower transaction costs and less credit exposure. The integrated model also results in a reduction in actual and contingent collateral through offsetting transactions, thereby reducing transactions with third parties. Customer Operations Customer Operations is responsible for growing and retaining the customer base and delivering an outstanding customer experience. This includes acquisition and retention of all of NRG s residential, small commercial, government and commercial industrial customers. NRG employs a multi-brand strategy that leverages a wide array of sales and partnership channels, direct face-to-face sales channels, call centers, websites, and brokers. Go-to-market activities include market strategy planning and development, product innovation, offer design, campaign execution, marketing and creative services, and selling. Customer portfolio maintenance and retention activities include fulfillment, billing, payment processing, collections, customer service, issue resolution, and contract renewals. NRG provides energy and related services at either fixed, indexed or month-to-month prices. Home customers typically contract for terms ranging from one month to five years, while Business contracts are often between one year and five years in length. Throughout all Customer Operations activities, the customer experience is kept at the forefront to inform decision-making and optimize retention, while creating supporters and advocates for NRG s brands in the market. Following the expansion of the customer base with the acquisition of Direct Energy, Customer Operations now comprises three end-use customer facing teams: NRG Home, which serves residential customers, NRG Business, which serves business customers, and NRG Services, which primarily includes the services businesses acquired. Product Offerings NRG sells a variety of products to residential and small commercial customers, including retail electricity and energy management, natural gas, home security, line and surge protection products, HVAC installation, repair and maintenance, home protection products, carbon offsets, back-up power stations, portable power, portable solar and portable lighting. Home and Services customers make purchase decisions based on a variety of factors, including price, incentive, customer service, brand, innovative offers/features and referrals from friends and family. Through its broad range of service offerings and value propositions, NRG is able to attract, retain, and increase the value of its customer relationships. NRG's brands are recognized for exemplary customer service, innovative smart energy and technology product offerings, and environmentally-friendly solutions. The Company provides power and natural gas to the business-to-business markets in North America, as well as retail services, including demand response, commodity sales, energy efficiency and energy management solutions to Business customers. The Company is an integrated provider of supply and distributed energy resources and focuses on distributed products and services as businesses seek greater reliability, cleaner power and other benefits that they cannot obtain from the grid. These solutions include system power, distributed generation, renewable products, carbon management and specialty services, backup generation, storage and distributed solar, demand response, and energy efficiency and advisory services. In providing on-site energy solutions, the Company often benefits from its ability to supply energy products from its wholesale generation portfolio to Business customers. Market Operations Market Operations has two primary objectives: (i) to supply energy to our customers in the most cost-efficient manner; and (ii) to maximize the value of the Company's assets after satisfying its customer load requirements. These objectives are intended to reduce supply costs and maximize earnings with predictable cash flows. Power and natural gas are the two main commercial groups within market operations. Power The power commercial group is responsible for end-use electricity supply including power plant optimization and certain fuel supply. To meet the market operations objectives, NRG enters into supply, power and gas sales and hedging agreements via a wide range of products and contracts, including (i) physical and financial commodity instruments, (ii) fuel supply and transportation contracts, (iii) renewable PPAs and (iv) capacity and other contracted revenue sources, as further discussed below. 9 In addition, because changes in power prices in the markets where NRG operates are generally correlated to changes in natural gas prices, NRG uses hedging strategies that may include power and natural gas forward purchases and sales contracts to manage the commodity price risk. Physical and Financial Commodity Instruments NRG trades electric power, natural gas and related commodities, environmental products, weather products and financial products, including forwards, futures, options and swaps. NRG enters into these instruments primarily to manage price and delivery risk, optimize physical and contractual assets in the portfolio, manage working capital requirements, reduce the carbon exposure in its business and comply with laws. Fuel Supply and Transportation Contracts NRG's fuel requirements consist of various forms of fossil fuel and nuclear fuel. The prices of fossil fuels can be volatile. The Company obtains its fossil fuels from multiple suppliers and through multiple transporters. Although availability is generally not an issue, localized shortages, transportation availability, delays arising from extreme weather conditions and supplier financial stability issues can and do occur. The preceding factors related to the sources and availability of raw materials are fairly uniform across the Company's business and fuel products used. NRG's primary fuel requirements consist of the following: Natural Gas NRG operates a fleet of mid-merit and peaking natural gas plants. Fuel needs are managed by the natural gas commercial group, on a spot basis, especially for peaking assets, as the Company does not believe it is prudent to forward purchase natural gas for these types of units as the dispatch is highly unpredictable. Coal NRG actively manages its coal requirements based on forecasted generation, market volatility and its inventory on site. The Company believes it is adequately hedged, using forward coal supply agreements, for its domestic coal consumption for 2022. As of December 31, 2021, NRG had purchased forward contracts to provide fuel for approximately 88% of the Company's expected requirements for 2022 and 2023. For the domestic fleet, NRG purchased approximately 16.1 million tons of coal in 2021, almost all of which was Powder River Basin coal. For fuel transport, NRG has entered into various rail transportation and rail car lease agreements with varying tenors that will provide for most of the Company's transportation requirements of Powder River Basin coal for the next three years. Nuclear Fuel STP's owners, including NRG, satisfy their fuel supply requirements by: (i) acquiring uranium concentrates and contracting for conversion of the uranium concentrates into uranium hexafluoride; (ii) contracting for enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; and (iii) contracting for fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies. Through its proportionate participation in STPNOC, which is the NRC-licensed operator of STP that is responsible for all aspects of fuel procurement, NRG is party to a number of long-term forward purchase contracts with many of the world's largest suppliers covering STP's requirements for uranium concentrates with only approximately 25% of STP's requirements outstanding for the duration of the original operating license (through 2027/2028). Similarly, STP has begun the process of covering fuel supply requirements into the extended license period and has secured a fabrication contract with Westinghouse through 2047/2048. Other fuel requirements such as uranium, conversion and enrichment remain open at this time. Renewable PPAs The Company's strategy is to procure mid to long-term renewable generation through power purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2021, NRG has entered into PPAs totaling approximately 2.6 GW with third-party project developers and other counterparties. The average tenor of these agreements is twelve years. The Company expects to continue evaluating and executing similar agreements that support the needs of the business. The total GW entered into through PPAs may be impacted by contract terminations when they occur. Capacity and Other Contracted Revenue Sources NRG's revenues and cash flows, primarily in the East and West, benefit from capacity/demand payments and other contracted revenue sources, originating from market clearing capacity prices, resource adequacy contracts, tolling arrangements and other long-term contractual arrangements. The Company's largest source