Item 1 Business 7 Item 1A Risk Factors 23 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 1C Cybersecurity 38 Item 2 Properties 40 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 41 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 41 PART II 42 Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6 Reserved 43 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 71 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 74 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 75 Item 9B Other Information 77 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 77 PART III 78 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 78 Item 11 Executive Compensation 78 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 78 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 79 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 79 PART IV 80 Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 80 EXHIBIT INDEX 163 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 167 2 Glossary of Terms When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below: ACE Affordable Clean Energy Acquisition The acquisition of Vivint Smart Home, Inc. by NRG completed on March 10, 2023 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization AESO Alberta Electric System Operator ARO Asset Retirement Obligation ASC The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, which the FASB established as the source of authoritative GAAP ASR Accelerated Share Repurchases ASU Accounting Standards Updates updates to the ASC AUC Alberta Utilities Commission BTU British Thermal Unit Business NRG Business, which serves business customers CAA Clean Air Act CAISO California Independent System Operator CAMT 15% Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax enacted by the IRA on August 16, 2022 CDD Cooling Degree Day CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CO 2 Carbon Dioxide CO 2 e Carbon Dioxide Equivalents Company NRG Energy, Inc. Convertible Senior Notes As of December 31, 2023, consists of NRG s $575 million unsecured 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2048 Cottonwood Cottonwood Generating Station, a 1,166 MW natural gas-fueled plant CPP Clean Power Plan CPUC California Public Utilities Commission CWA Clean Water Act D.C. Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit DSI Dry Sorbent Injection DSU Deferred Stock Unit Dth Dekatherms Dual fuel customers Customer that have both electricity and natural gas service with the Company Economic gross margin Sum of retail revenue, energy revenue, capacity revenue and other revenue, less cost of fuels, purchased energy and other cost of sales EGU Electric Generating Unit EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, the Independent System Operator and the regional reliability coordinator of the various electricity systems within Texas ESP Electrostatic Precipitator ESPP NRG Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FGD Flue gas desulfurization FPA Federal Power Act 3 FTRs Financial Transmission Rights GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States GHG Greenhouse Gas Green Mountain Energy Green Mountain Energy Company GW Gigawatts GWh Gigawatt Hours HDD Heating Degree Day Heat Rate A measure of thermal efficiency computed by dividing the total BTU content of the fuel burned by the resulting kWhs generated. Heat rates can be expressed as either gross or net heat rates, depending whether the electricity output measured is gross or net generation and is generally expressed as BTU per net kWh Home NRG Home, which serves residential customers ICE Intercontinental Exchange IoT Internet of Things IRA Inflation Reduction Act ISO Independent System Operator, also referred to as RTOs ISO-NE ISO New England Inc. Ivanpah Ivanpah Solar Electric Generation Station, a 391 MW solar thermal power plant located in California's Mojave Desert in which NRG owns 54.5% interest kWh Kilowatt-hours LaGen Louisiana Generating LLC LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate LSEs Load Serving Entities LTIPs Collectively, the NRG LTIP and the Vivint LTIP MDth Thousand Dekatherms Midwest Generation Midwest Generation, LLC MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. MMBtu Million British Thermal Units MMDth Million Dekatherms MW Megawatts MWh Saleable megawatt hour net of internal/parasitic load megawatt-hour NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards NEPOOL New England Power Pool NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NERC-CIP North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection Net Capacity Factor The net amount of electricity that a generating unit produces over a period of time divided by the net amount of electricity it could have produced if it had run at full power over that time period. The net amount of electricity produced is the total amount of electricity generated minus the amount of electricity used during generation Net Exposure Counterparty credit exposure to NRG, net of collateral Net Generation The net amount of electricity produced, expressed in kWhs or MWhs, that is the total amount of electricity generated (gross) minus the amount of electricity used during generation NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology Nodal Nodal Exchange is a derivatives exchange NOL Net Operating Loss NO x Nitrogen Oxides NPNS Normal Purchase Normal Sale NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRG NRG Energy, Inc. 4 NRG LTIP NRG Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund NRG's nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, which were for the Company's portion of the decommissioning of the STP, units 1 2 through the sale of STP on November 1, 2023 NYISO New York Independent System Operator NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange OCI/OCL Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) ORDC Operating Reserve Demand Curve ORDPA Online Reliability Deployment Price Adder PCI DSS Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard Peaking Units expected to satisfy demand requirements during the periods of greatest or peak load on the system Petra Nova Petra Nova Parish Holdings, LLC PJM PJM Interconnection, LLC PM2.5 Particulate Matter that has a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers PPA Power Purchase Agreement PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 Receivables Facility NRG Receivables LLC, a bankruptcy remote, special purpose, wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company's $1.4 billion accounts receivables securitization facility due 2024, which was last amended on October 6, 2023 Receivables Securitization Facilities Collectively, the Receivables Facility and the Repurchase Facility RECs Renewable Energy Certificates Renewable PPA A third-party PPA entered into directly with a renewable generation facility for the offtake of the RECs or other similar environmental attributes generated by such facility, coupled with the associated power generated by that facility Renewables Consists of the following projects in which NRG has an ownership interest: Ivanpah and solar generating stations located at various NFL Stadiums Renewables Platform The renewable operating and development platform sold to Global Infrastructure Partners with NRG's interest in NRG Yield REP Retail electric provider Repurchase Facility NRG's $150 million uncommitted repurchase facility related to the Receivables Facility due 2024, which was last amended on October 6, 2023 Revolving Credit Facility The Company's $4.3 billion revolving credit facility due 2028, which was last modified on March 13, 2023 RGGI Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RMR Reliability Must-Run RPS Renewable Portfolio Standards RPSU Relative Performance Stock Unit RSU Restricted Stock Unit RTO Regional Transmission Organization SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction Control System SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act The Securities Act of 1933, as amended Senior Notes As of December 31, 2023, NRG's $4.0 billion outstanding unsecured senior notes consisting of $375 million of the 6.625% senior notes due 2027, $821 million of 5.75% senior notes due 2028, $733 million of the 5.25% senior notes due 2029, $500 million of the 3.375% senior notes due 2029, $1.0 billion of the 3.625% senior notes due 2031 and $480 million of the 3.875% senior notes due 2032 5 Senior Secured First Lien Notes As of December 31, 2023, NRG s $3.2 billion outstanding Senior Secured First Lien Notes consists of $600 million of the 3.75% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2024, $500 million of the 2.0% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2025, $900 million of the 2.45% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2027, $500 million of the 4.45% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2029 and $740 million of the 7.000% Senior Secured First Lien Notes due 2033 Series A Preferred Stock As of December 31, 2023, NRG's Series A Preferred Stock consists of 650,000 outstanding shares of the 10.25% Series A Fixed-Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, with a $1,000 liquidation preference per share Services NRG Services, which primarily includes the services businesses acquired in the Direct Energy acquisition and the Goal Zero business SO 2 Sulfur Dioxide SOFR Secured overnight financing rate South Central Portfolio NRG's South Central Portfolio, which owned and operated a portfolio of generation assets consisting of Bayou Cove, Big Cajun-I, Big Cajun-II, Cottonwood and Sterlington, was sold on February 4, 2019. NRG is leasing back the Cottonwood facility through May 2025 S P Standard Poor's STP South Texas Project nuclear generating facility located near Bay City, Texas in which NRG owned a 44% interest. NRG closed on the sale of its interest in STP on November 1, 2023 STPNOC South Texas Project Nuclear Operating Company Tax Act The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TDSP Transmission/distribution service provider Texas Genco Texas Genco LLC TSR Total Shareholder Return TWh Terawatt Hours U.S. United States of America VaR Value at Risk VIE Variable Interest Entity Vivint LTIP Vivint Smart Home, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan assumed by NRG pursuant to merger between NRG and Vivint Winter Storm Elliott A major winter storm that had impacts across the majority of the United States and parts of Canada occurring in December 2022 Winter Storm Uri A major winter and ice storm that had widespread impacts across North America occurring in February 2021 6 PART I Item 1 Business General NRG Energy, Inc., or NRG or the Company, sits at the intersection of energy and home services. NRG is a leading energy and home services company fueled by market-leading brands, proprietary technologies and complementary sales channels. Across the U.S. and Canada, NRG delivers innovative, sustainable solutions, predominately under brand names such as NRG, Reliant, Direct Energy, Green Mountain Energy and Vivint, while also advocating for competitive energy markets and customer choice. The Company has a customer base that includes approximately 8 million residential consumers in addition to commercial, industrial, and wholesale customers, supported by approximately 13 GW of generation as of December 31, 2023. NRG sold 152 TWhs of electricity and 1,892 MMDth of natural gas in 2023, making it one of the largest competitive energy retailers in the U.S. As of the end of 2023, NRG had recurring electricity and/or natural gas sales in 25 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and 8 provinces in Canada, as well as Vivint served customers in all 50 U.S. states. NRG's retail brands, collectively, have the largest share of competitively served residential electric customers in Texas and nationwide. The following chart represents NRG's sales volumes for the year ended December 31, 2023: Strategy NRG's strategy is to maximize stakeholder value by being a leader in the emerging convergence of energy and smart automation in the home and business. Through a diversified supply strategy, the Company sells reliable electricity and natural gas to its customers in the markets it serves, while also providing innovative home solutions to customers. NRG's unique combination of assets and capabilities enables the Company to develop and sell highly differentiated offerings that bring together every day essential services like powering and securing the home through a seamless and integrated experience. This strategy is intended to enable the Company to optimize its unique integrated platform to delight customers, generate recurring cash flow, significantly strengthen earnings and cost competitiveness, and lower risk and volatility. Sustainability is a philosophy that underpins and facilitates value creation across NRG's business for its stakeholders. It is an integral piece of NRG's strategy and ties directly to business success, reduced risks and enhanced reputation. To effectuate the Company s strategy, NRG is focused on: (i) serving the energy needs of end-use residential, commercial and industrial, and wholesale counterparties in competitive markets and optimizing on additional revenue opportunities through its multiple brands and channels; (ii) offering a variety of energy products and services, including renewable energy solutions and smart home products and services that are differentiated by innovative features, premium service, integrated platforms, sustainability and loyalty/affinity programs; (iii) excellence in operating performance of its assets; (iv) achieving the optimal mix of supply to serve its customer load requirements through a diversified supply strategy; and (v) engaging in disciplined and transparent capital allocation. 7 The following transactions were completed during 2023 in furtherance of the Company s strategy: (i) the March 10, 2023 acquisition of Vivint Smart Home, a leading smart home platform company; (ii) portfolio optimization, including the sale of the Company s 44% equity interest in STP for $1.7 billion; and (iii) disciplined capital allocation through the execution of $1.2 billion in share repurchases and $1.4 billion in debt reduction. Business Overview The Company s core businesses are the sale of electricity and natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial and wholesale customers, supported by the Company's wholesale electric generation, as well as the sale of smart home products and services. NRG manages its electricity and natural gas operations based on the combined results of the retail and wholesale generation businesses with a geographical focus. Vivint Smart Home operations are reported within the Vivint Smart Home segment. The Company's business is segmented as follows: Texas, which includes all activity related to customer, plant and market operations in Texas, other than Cottonwood; East, which includes all activity related to customer, plant and market operations in the East; West/Services/Other, which primarily includes the following assets and activities: (i) all activity related to customer, plant and market operations in the West and Canada, (ii) the Services businesses, (iii) activity related to the Cottonwood facility and other investments; Vivint Smart Home; and Corporate activities. In Texas, the Company s generation supply is fully integrated with its retail load. This integrated model provides the advantage of being able to supply a portion of the Company s retail customers with electricity from the Company s assets, which reduces the need to sell electricity to, and buy electricity from, other institutions and intermediaries, resulting in more stable earnings and cash flows, lower transaction costs and less credit exposure. The integrated model also results in a reduction in actual and contingent collateral through offsetting transactions, thereby reducing transactions with third parties. The integrated model consists of three core functions in each geographic segment above: Customer Operations, Market Operations and Plant Operations. Customer Operations Customer Operations is responsible for growing and retaining the customer base and delivering an outstanding customer experience. This includes acquisition and retention of all of NRG s residential, small commercial, commercial and industrial, and government customers. NRG employs a multi-brand strategy that leverages a wide array of sales and partnership channels, direct face-to-face sales channels, call centers, websites, and brokers. Go-to-market activities include market strategy planning and development, product innovation, offer design, campaign execution, marketing and creative services, and selling. Customer portfolio maintenance and retention activities include fulfillment, billing, payment processing, collections, customer service, issue resolution, and contract renewals. NRG provides energy and related services at either fixed, indexed or month-to-month prices. Home customers typically contract for terms ranging from one month to five years, while Business contracts are often between one year and five years in length. Throughout all Customer Operations activities, the customer experience is kept at the forefront to inform decision-making and optimize retention, while creating supporters and advocates for NRG s brands in the market. Customer Operations comprises three end-use customer facing teams: NRG Home, which serves residential customers, NRG Business, which serves business customers, and NRG Services, which primarily includes the Services businesses. Product Offerings NRG sells a variety of products to residential and small commercial customers, including retail electricity and energy management, natural gas, line and surge protection products, HVAC installation, repair and maintenance, home protection products, carbon offsets, back-up power stations, portable power, portable solar and portable lighting. Home and Services customers make purchase decisions based on a variety of factors, including price, incentive, customer service, brand, innovative offers/features and referrals from friends and family. Through its broad range of service offerings and value propositions, NRG seeks to attract, retain, and increase the value of its customer relationships. NRG's brands are recognized for exemplary customer service, innovative smart energy and technology product offerings, and environmentally-friendly solutions. The Company provides power and natural gas to the business-to-business markets in North America, as well as retail services, including demand response, commodity sales, energy efficiency and energy management solutions to Business customers. The Company is an integrated provider of supply and distributed energy resources and focuses on distributed products and services as businesses seek greater reliability, cleaner power and other benefits that they cannot obtain from the grid. These solutions include system power, distributed generation, renewable and low-carbon products, carbon management 8 and specialty services, backup generation, storage and distributed solar, demand response, and energy efficiency and advisory services. Market Operations Market Operations has two primary objectives: to supply energy to customers in the most cost-efficient manner and to maximize the value of the Company's assets in satisfying its customer load requirements. These objectives are intended to reduce supply costs and maximize earnings with predictable cash flows. Power and natural gas are the two main commercial groups within Market Operations. Power The power commercial group is responsible for end-use electricity supply including power plant optimization and certain fuel supply. To meet the market operations objectives, NRG enters into supply, power and gas hedging agreements via a wide range of products and contracts, including (i) physical and financial commodity instruments, (ii) fuel supply and transportation contracts, (iii) PPAs and Renewable PPAs and (iv) capacity and other contracted revenue or supply sources, as further discussed below. In addition, because changes in power prices in the markets where NRG operates are generally correlated to changes in natural gas prices, NRG uses hedging strategies that may include power and natural gas forward purchases and sales contracts to manage commodity price risk. Physical and Financial Commodity Instruments NRG trades power, natural gas, environmental, weather and other physical and financial commodity related products, including forwards, futures, options and swaps. NRG enters into these instruments primarily to manage price and delivery risk, optimize physical and contractual assets in the portfolio, manage working capital requirements, reduce the carbon exposure in its business and to comply with laws and regulations. Fuel Supply and Transportation Contracts NRG's fuel requirements consist of various forms of fossil fuel. The prices of fossil fuels can be volatile. The Company obtains its fossil fuels from multiple suppliers and through multiple transporters. Although availability is generally not an issue, localized shortages, transportation availability, delays arising from extreme weather conditions and supplier financial stability issues can and do occur. The preceding factors related to the sources and availability of raw materials are fairly uniform across the Company's business and fuel products used. NRG's primary fuel requirements consist of the following: Natural Gas NRG operates a fleet of mid-merit and peaking natural gas plants. Fuel needs are managed by the natural gas commercial group, generally on a spot basis, as the Company does not believe it is prudent to forward purchase natural gas for these types of units as the dispatch is highly unpredictable. Natural gas storage and transportation contracts are utilized to reduce daily volatility. Coal NRG actively manages its coal requirements based on forecasted generation, market volatility and its inventory on site. The Company believes it is adequately hedged, using forward coal supply agreements, for its domestic coal consumption for 2024. As of December 31, 2023, NRG had purchased forward contracts to provide fuel for the Company's expected requirements for 2024. For the domestic fleet, NRG purchased approximately 13 million tons of coal in 2023, almost all of which was Powder River Basin coal. For fuel transport, NRG has entered into various rail transportation and rail car lease agreements with varying tenures, which will provide for the Company's transportation requirements of Powder River Basin coal for the next two years. Renewable PPAs The Company's strategy is to procure mid to long-term renewable generation through power purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2023, NRG has entered into Renewable PPAs totaling approximately 1.9 GW with third-party project developers and other counterparties, of which approximately 1.1 GW are operational. The average tenure of these agreements is eleven years. The Company expects to continue evaluating and executing similar agreements that support the needs of the business. The total GW entered into through Renewable PPAs may be impacted by contract terminations when they occur. Capacity and Other Contracted Revenue or Supply Sources NRG's revenues and/or cash flows, primarily in the East and West, benefit from capacity/demand payments and other contracted revenue sources, originating from market clearing capacity prices, tolling arrangements and other long-term contractual arrangements. 9 Natural Gas The natural gas commercial group is responsible for costing, logistics and supply for all of NRG's residential, commercial and industrial, and wholesale customers. NRG has contractual rights to natural gas transportation and storage assets across its footprint that allow for optimal supply economics in support of its various businesses. NRG's diversified load coupled with this asset portfolio enables the Company to deliver supply economically while providing incremental optimization activities when market conditions allow. The scale of the natural gas operation extends from the wellhead (through its producer services business) to end use customers (through NRG's various sales channels). This scale, coupled with the Company's associated assets, gas system platform and people, create significant value across North America. Plant Operations The Company owns and leases a diversified wholesale generation portfolio with approximately 13 GW of fossil fuel, and renewable generation capacity at 19 plants as of December 31, 2023. The Company's wholesale generation assets are diversified by fuel-type and dispatch level, which helps mitigate the risks associated with fuel price volatility and market demand cycles. NRG continually evaluates its generation portfolio to focus on asset optimization opportunities and the locational value of its generation assets in each of the markets where the Company participates, as well as opportunities for the development of new generation. The following table summarizes NRG's generation portfolio as of December 31, 2023: (In MW) (a) Type Texas East West/Services/Other (b) Total Natural gas 4,353 80 1,279 5,712 Coal 4,174 1,948 605 6,727 Oil 455 455 Utility Scale Solar 216 216 Battery Storage 2 2 Total generation capacity 8,529 2,483 2,100 13,112 (a) Utility Scale Solar is described in MW on an alternating current basis. MW figures provided represent nominal summer net MW capacity of power generated as adjusted for the Company's owned interest (b) Includes proportionate share of equity owned investments Plant Operations is responsible for operating the Company's generation facilities at the highest standards of safety and regulatory compliance, and includes (i) operations and maintenance, (ii) asset management, and (iii) development, engineering and construction. Operations Maintenance NRG operates and maintains its generation portfolio, as well as approximately 6,500 MW of additional coal, natural gas and wind generation capacity at 15 plants operated on behalf of third parties, as of December 31, 2023, using prudent industry practices for the safe, reliable and economic generation of electricity in compliance with all local, state and federal requirements. The Company follows a consistent set of operating requirements, including a solid base of training, required adherence to specific safety and environmental limits, procedure and checklist usage, and the implementation of continuous process improvement through incident investigations. NRG uses best-in-class maintenance practices for preventive, predictive, and corrective maintenance planning. The Company s strategic planning process evaluates equipment condition, performance, and obsolescence to support the development of a comprehensive work scope and schedule for long-term performance. Asset Management NRG manages all aspects of its generation portfolio to optimize the lifecycle value of the assets, consistent with the Company s goals. The Company evaluates capital projects required for continued operation and strategic enhancement of the assets, provides quality assurance on capital outlays, and assesses the impact of rules, regulations, and laws on business profitability. In addition, the Company manages its long-term contracts, PPAs, and real estate holdings and provides third-party asset management services. Development, Engineering Construction NRG develops, engineers and executes major plant modifications, new build generation and energy storage projects that enhance the value of its generation portfolio and provide options to meet generation growth needs in the retail markets it serves, in accordance with the Company s strategic goals. These projects have included gas-fired generation development and 10 construction, coal to gas conversions, grid scale energy storage development, grid scale renewable construction, and asset demolition, remediation and reclamation work. Vivint Smart Home In March 2023, NRG completed the acquisition of Vivint Smart Home, which is a leading smart home platform that provides subscribers with technology, products and services to create a smarter, greener, safer home. A smart home has multiple devices integrated into a single expandable platform that incorporates artificial intelligence and machine-learning in its operating system allowing customers to interact with and manage their home from anywhere via the Vivint app on their smart device. Vivint Smart Home enables a customized solution for the home using integrated smart cameras (indoor, outdoor and doorbell), locks, lights, thermostats, garage door control and a host of other safety and security sensors. Vivint Smart Home provides a fully integrated solution for consumers, including hardware, software, sales, installation by trained and experienced in-home service professionals, customer service, technical support and professional monitoring. This seamless integration of high-quality products and services resulted in an average subscriber lifetime of approximately nine years as of December 31, 2023. The Company believes its ability to offer related or adjacent products and services that leverage the existing smart home platform, as well as energy services, can extend the average subscriber lifetime and increase the lifetime value of subscribers. Vivint Smart Home's cloud-based home platform currently manages more than 30 million in-home devices as of December 31, 2023. The average