Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant&#x2019;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6 [Reserved] 33 Item 7 Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B Other Information 92 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 92 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11 Executive Compensation 93 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 93 Signatures 100 Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are all statements (and their underlying assumptions) included in this document that refer, directly or indirectly, to future events or outcomes and, as such, are inherently not factual, but rather reflect only our current projections for the future. Consequently, forward-looking statements usually include words such as &#x201c;estimate,&#x201d; &#x201c;intend,&#x201d; &#x201c;plan,&#x201d; &#x201c;predict,&#x201d; &#x201c;seek,&#x201d; &#x201c;may,&#x201d; &#x201c;will,&#x201d; &#x201c;should,&#x201d; &#x201c;would,&#x201d; &#x201c;could,&#x201d; &#x201c;anticipate,&#x201d; &#x201c;expect,&#x201d; &#x201c;believe,&#x201d; or similar words, in each case, intended to refer to future events or circumstances. A non-comprehensive list of the topics including forward-looking statements in this document includes: &#x2022; our future financial and operating results; &#x2022; our strategy; &#x2022; our beliefs and objectives for future operations, research and development; &#x2022; expectations regarding future product releases, growth and performance; &#x2022; political, economic and industry trends; 3 &#x2022; expected timing of, customer acceptance of and benefits from, product introductions, developments and enhancements; &#x2022; expected benefits from acquisitions, joint ventures, growth opportunities and investments; &#x2022; expected outcomes from legal, regulatory and administrative proceedings; &#x2022; our competitive position; &#x2022; our short-term and long-term cash requirements, including, without limitation, anticipated capital expenditures; &#x2022; our anticipated tax rate; &#x2022; the repayment of our indebtedness; and &#x2022; future uses of our cash, including, without limitation, the continuation of our stock repurchase and cash dividend programs. All forward-looking statements included in this document are inherently uncertain as they are based on management&#x2019;s current expectations and assumptions concerning future events and are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual events and results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein include, but are not limited to: &#x2022; the impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic and uneven recovery on our business operations, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows; &#x2022; the overall growth, technological trends and market changes in the enterprise storage and data management, cloud storage and cloud operations markets; &#x2022; our ability to introduce and gain market acceptance for new and differentiated products, solutions and services without disruption; &#x2022; our ability to successfully execute on our Data Fabric strategy; &#x2022; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products, solutions and services, and future financial performance; &#x2022; our ability to successfully manage our backlog; &#x2022; our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business in response to changing market conditions and market demand; &#x2022; disruptions in our supply chain, which could limit our ability to ship products to our customers in the amounts and at the prices forecasted; &#x2022; our ability to maintain our customer, partner, supplier and contract manufacturer relationships on favorable terms and conditions; &#x2022; our ability to maintain our gross profit margins; &#x2022; the actions of our competitors including, without limitation, their ability to introduce competitive products and to acquire businesses and technologies that negatively impact our strategy, operations or customer demand for our products; &#x2022; the impact of industry consolidation affecting our suppliers, competitors, partners and customers; &#x2022; general global political, macroeconomic, social, health and market conditions; &#x2022; our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, products and technologies; &#x2022; failure of our products and services to meet our customers&#x2019; quality requirements, including, without limitation, any epidemic failure event relating to our systems installed by our customers in their IT infrastructures; &#x2022; our ability to anticipate techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems and to implement adequate preventative measures against cybersecurity and other security breaches on our systems, products and services; &#x2022; changes in U.S. government spending; &#x2022; our ability to successfully recruit and retain qualified personnel and to manage our investment in people, processes and systems; &#x2022; our ability to resolve ongoing litigation, tax audits, government audits, inquiries and investigations in line with our expectations; 4 &#x2022; the availability of acceptable financing to support our future cash requirements; &#x2022; valuation and liquidity of our investment portfolio; &#x2022; foreign exchange rate impacts; &#x2022; our ability to achieve our goals related to environmental, social and governance matters; and &#x2022; those factors discussed under the heading &#x201c;Risk Factors&#x201d; elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document and are based upon information available to us at this time. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to update information in any forward-looking statement. Actual results could vary from our forward-looking statements due to the foregoing factors as well as other important factors. 5 PA RT I Item 1. Business Overview NetApp, Inc. (NetApp, we, or us) is a global cloud-led, data-centric software company. We were incorporated in 1992 and are headquartered in San Jose, California. Building on a rich history of innovation, NetApp gives customers the freedom to manage applications and data across hybrid multicloud environments. Our portfolio of cloud services, and storage infrastructure, powered by intelligent data management software, enables applications to run faster, more reliably, and more securely, all at a lower cost. In the last two years, we have seen an unprecedented acceleration of digital transformation. Organizations accelerated digital initiatives to strengthen and optimize operations, as well as to create new experiences for customers and employees. All these efforts require these organizations to manage and protect data while ensuring that the underlying cloud and data center infrastructure can support application performance and reliability cost-effectively. Increasingly, complexity is the primary barrier to building new applications and capabilities quickly. Our vision is to help our customers increase the pace of innovation by reducing complexity with intelligent software services that manage, protect and optimize data, storage infrastructure, and cloud resources. Our strategy is to help our customers: &#x2022; Build their data fabric with a single, unified, enterprise-grade data experience across the hybrid multicloud. &#x2022; Modernize data centers with cloud-like capabilities and consumption models. &#x2022; Accelerate cloud deployment by removing economic and operational barriers. &#x2022; Simplify the management of hybrid multicloud environments with a single management plane. Product, Solutions and Services Portfolio NetApp delivers a portfolio of cloud services, and storage infrastructure, powered by intelligent data management software. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, corresponding with how we manage the company, we established two segments for financial reporting purposes: Hybrid Cloud and Public Cloud. Hybrid Cloud Hybrid Cloud offers a portfolio of storage management and infrastructure solutions that help customers recast their data centers with the power of cloud. This portfolio is designed to operate with public clouds to unlock the potential of hybrid, multi-cloud operations. We offer a broad portfolio of cloud-connected all-flash, hybrid-flash, and object storage systems, powered by intelligent data management software. Hybrid Cloud is composed of software, hardware, and related support, as well as professional and other services. Intelligent data management software NetApp ONTAP software is the foundational technology that underpins NetApp's key storage solutions in the data center and in the cloud. ONTAP includes a wide variety of data management and protection features and capabilities, including automatic ransomware protection against cyber-attacks, built-in data transport features, and storage efficiency capabilities. ONTAP provides flexibility to design and deploy a storage environment across the broadest range of architectures - engineered systems, software-defined storage (SDS), and the cloud &#x2013; while unifying data management across all of them, as well as SAN and NAS environments. Customers can realize savings with space-efficient NetApp Snapshot copies, thin provisioning, replication, and cloning technologies. ONTAP includes a number of data protection features designed to safeguard data from corruption, compromise, or loss and to help our customers quickly recover when unexpected events occur. NetApp SnapCenter Backup Management s oftware is designed to deliver high-performance backup and recovery for database and application workloads hosted on ONTAP storage. NetApp SnapMirror Data Replication software is able to replicate data at high speeds across environments. SnapMirror delivers robust data management capabilities for virtualization, protecting critical data while providing the flexibility to move data between locations and storage tiers, including cloud service providers. NetApp SnapLock Data Compliance software delivers high-performance disk-based data permanence for HDD and SSD deployments. NetApp Astra is a fully managed application-aware data management service built for Kubernetes workloads. Astra allows organizations to protect, recover, and move applications deployed on Kubernetes with no software to download, install, manage, or upgrade. 6 NetApp ElementOS software delivers agility through scale-out flexibility, predictable performance, and automation integrations so organizations can build clouds to accelerate new services. ElementOS software enables innovative architectures with flexible scale for our customers' private clouds. NetApp SANtricity software is the data management software that powers and administers the NetApp E/EF Series storage arrays. SANtricity software offers industry-leading performance, reliability, and ease of use. These capabilities mean that storage administrators can make configuration changes, perform maintenance, and expand storage capacity without disrupting I/O to attached hosts. Storage infrastructure NetApp All-Flash FAS (AFF) series is a scale-out platform built for virtualized environments, combining low-latency performance via flash memory (also known as a solid-state storage disk) with best-in-class data management, built-in efficiencies, integrated data protection, multiprotocol support, and nondisruptive operations; cloud and on-premises. AFF, powered by ONTAP, allows customers to connect to clouds for more data services, data tiering, caching, and disaster recovery. The AFF Series has a portfolio of products designed for multiple markets and price/performance considerations, from smaller channel commercial market offerings to large-scale, global enterprises. NetApp Fabric Attached Storage (FAS) series are high-volume, high-capacity data storage devices powered by NetApp ONTAP. NetApp FAS Storage Arrays provide customers with a balance of performance and capacity running either disk drives, hybrid-flash or newer, cost-efficient flash memory known as Quad-level cell (QLC). QLC based systems (FAS500f) are designed for a balanced ratio of capacity and performance. FAS systems cost-effectively deliver data protection, security, and scalability. NetApp FlexPod is a converged infrastructure solution. It combines servers (compute), storage resources, and the network fabric to create an agile, efficient, and scalable platform for hosting applications. Using Cisco Validated Design methodologies, the FlexPod platform is a portfolio of pre-validated designs used to meet the challenges of simplifying deployments for best-in-class data center architectures based on the Cisco Unified Computing System and NetApp data storage solutions. NetApp E/EF series is built for dedicated, high-bandwidth applications that need simple, fast SAN storage with enterprise-grade reliability. The E-Series is available as a hybrid-flash platform, while the EF-Series is all-flash. Running on the SANtricity storage operating system, the E/EF-Series storage appliances are designed for performance-sensitive workloads like real-time analytics, HPC, and databases. NetApp StorageGRID is a software-defined object storage solution for large archives, media repositories, and web data stores. Using the industry-standard object APIs like the Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), the StorageGRID solution, running on the ElementOS data management storage operating system, is provided both as a NetApp-branded storage solution and as a software-defined solution on third-party hardware. NetApp SolidFire is a scale-out, all-flash storage platform designed for large-scale infrastructure. It is primarily positioned for private cloud solutions. SolidFire, running on the ElementOS data management storage operating system, allows customers to manage storage performance independent of capabilities and guarantee performance to thousands of applications within a single storage platform. Public Cloud Public Cloud offers a portfolio of products delivered primarily as-a-service, including related support. This portfolio includes cloud storage and data services, and cloud operations services. Our enterprise-class solutions and services enables customers to control and manage storage in the cloud, consume high-performance storage services for primary workloads, and optimize cloud environments for cost and efficiency. These solutions and services are generally available on the leading public clouds, including Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform and Amazon AWS. Cloud storage and data services The NetApp Cloud Volumes Platform is an integrated collection of cloud storage infrastructure and data services. The platform is anchored by NetApp Cloud Volumes ONTAP , a cloud-based software for customers who wish to manage their own cloud storage infrastructure, and based on the same ONTAP software that underpins our storage infrastructure offerings. Fully managed cloud storage offerings are available natively on Microsoft Azure as Azure NetApp Files , on AWS as Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP , and on Google Cloud as NetApp Cloud Volumes Service for Google Cloud . With ONTAP&#x2019;s built-in data transport features ( NetApp Cloud Sync ), customers can migrate data to the cloud securely and efficiently and can choose where to deploy primary workloads without having to re-architect applications or databases. Customers also get a comprehensive, industry-leading portfolio of storage efficiency capabilities. Inline data compression, deduplication, compaction, 7 and cloud tiering ( NetApp Cloud Tiering ) work together to reduce storage costs and maximize the amount of data stored. NetApp Cloud Backup delivers seamless and cost-effective backup and restore capabilities for protecting and archiving cloud and on-premises ONTAP data. NetApp Cloud Data Sense (formerly Cloud Compliance) , provides data discovery, mapping, and classification driven by artificial intelligence algorithms with automated controls and reporting for data privacy regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and more. NetApp Cloud Volumes Edge Cache (formerly Global File Cache) software delivers fast and secure access to data for users by caching active data sets to distributed offices globally. Cloud operations services NetApp Cloud Insights is an infrastructure monitoring tool that gives organizations visibility into their entire infrastructure with the ability to monitor, troubleshoot, and optimize cost across all resources, including public clouds and private data centers. Our Spot by NetApp suite of products delivers a platform for cloud operations, enabling customers to deploy and operate cloud applications reliably and securely in their choice of cloud while reducing costs and complexity. Combining machine learning, predictive analytics and cloud automation, the Spot platform continuously optimizes cloud infrastructure and operations to deliver scalable, reliable and secure infrastructure for applications. With solutions for virtual machines, containers, and key workloads, the Spot portfolio&#x2019;s automation and optimization capabilities give customers more cloud at less cost. Spot Elastigroup enables customers to scale mission-critical workloads on AWS with automated, optimized cloud infrastructure management. The Spot Ocean Kubernetes Suite enables customers to dynamically provision, scale and optimize cloud resources for microservices and big data workloads. Spot Security delivers cloud security analysis and threat reduction for actionable compliance, remediation, and prevention. Spot Eco enables customers to maximize their cloud savings with intelligent management of AWS reserved instances and savings plans. Spot CloudCheckr provides actionable cloud cost analysis with visibility into performance and optimization opportunities. Professional and Support Services NetApp and our certified services partners offer a comprehensive portfolio of assessment, design, implementation, migration, and proactive support services to help customers optimize the performance and efficiency of their on-premises and hybrid multicloud storage environments. Our portfolio of offerings include strategic consulting, professional, managed, and support services. &#x2022; NetApp strategic consulting services provide executive-level, high-touch consulting engagements to help organizations facilitate the alignment of their business and technology goals. Our proven expertise can help organizations define long-term data fabric strategies and operations models to drive IT initiatives for digital transformation. &#x2022; NetApp Professional Services provide the expertise to mitigate risk and streamline the design, implementation, migration, and integration of NetApp hybrid cloud solutions to realize the business benefits of new technology investments faster. Highly skilled services experts help enable secure, optimized environments that deliver the consistent, high-quality outcomes customers expect from the start. &#x2022; NetApp Managed Services optimize performance and efficiency in hybrid cloud and on-premises environments. Our NetApp experts use proven methodology and best practices to monitor, administer, operate, and optimize customer environments so their organization's IT staff is free to focus on initiatives to move the business forward. &#x2022; NetApp Global Support supplies systems, processes, and people wherever needed to provide continuous operation in complex and critical environments, with an emphasis on proactive and preemptive technology support for operational continuity across the NetApp hybrid cloud. Personalized support options provide actionable intelligence to resolve problems faster, reduce downtime, and optimize performance of the entire NetApp ecosystem. Sales, Principal Markets, and Distribution Channels We market and sell our products and services in numerous countries throughout the world. Our sales efforts are organized around the evolving needs of our current and targeted customers, and our marketing initiatives reflect this focus. NetApp uses a multichannel distribution strategy. We sell our products, solutions and services to end-user business customers and service providers through a direct sales force and an ecosystem of partners, including the leading cloud providers. Our marketing is focused on building our brand reputation, creating market awareness, communicating customer advantages and generating demand for our sales force and channel partners. Our diversified customer base spans industry segments and vertical markets such as energy, financial services, government, technology, internet, life sciences, healthcare services, manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation, video postproduction and 8 telecommunications. NetApp focuses primarily on the enterprise storage and data management, cloud storage and cloud operations markets. We design our products to meet the evolving requirements of a hybrid, multicloud world, driven by digital transformation and cloud initiatives. Our partnerships with the industry&#x2019;s leading cloud, infrastructure, consulting, application, and reseller partners are created with one goal in mind: the success of our customers. Global enterprises, local businesses, and government installations look to NetApp and our ecosystem of partners to help maximize the business value of their IT and cloud investments. We work with a wide range of partners for our customers, including technology partners, value-added resellers, system integrators, OEMs, service providers and distributors. During fiscal 2022, sales through our indirect channels represented 77% of our net revenues. Our global partner ecosystem is critical to NetApp&#x2019;s growth and success. We are continually strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new ones to ensure we are meeting the evolving needs of our customers. As of April 29, 2022, our worldwide sales and marketing functions consisted of approximately 5,700 managers, sales representatives and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 30 countries. Sales to customers Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Tech Data Corporation accounted for 24% and 21% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2022. Information about sales to and accounts receivables from our major customers, segment disclosures, foreign operations and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in Note 15 &#x2013; Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Seasonality We have historically experienced a sequential decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth quarter, and because sales to European customers are typically weaker during the summer months. During the second quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent with the end of the U.S. federal government&#x2019;s fiscal year in September, as well as an increase in business from European markets. We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from customer orders booked in the same quarter. Customer orders and revenues typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. If recurring services and cloud revenue continue to increase as a percentage of our total revenues, historical seasonal patterns may become less pronounced. Backlog We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers&#x2019; demand. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. A substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancelable prior to shipment without penalty. In certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. Our business is characterized by seasonal and intra-quarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery schedules. Accordingly, backlog at any given time may not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue. Manufacturing and Supply Chain We have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in Memphis, Tennessee; Fremont, California; San Jose, California; San Antonio, Texas; Guadalajara, Mexico; Schiphol Airport, The Netherlands; Komarom and Tiszaujvaros, Hungary; Wuxi and Tianjin, China; Taoyuan City, Taiwan; and Singapore. These operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and finished systems. We strive to have multiple suppliers qualified to provide critical components where possible and have our products manufactured in a number of locations to mitigate our supply chain risk. Our strategy has been to develop close relationships with our suppliers, maximizing the exchange of critical information and facilitating the implementation of joint quality programs. We use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies and final system configuration. This manufacturing strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion. We are certified to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 certification standards. We have been Tier 2 certified under the U.S. Customs and Border Protection&#x2019;s (CBP) Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) program since January 2015. Research and Development Our research and development team delivers innovation to help customers modernize their IT environment and unlock the best of cloud. Our R D structure allows us to align and accelerate the execution of our strategies and roadmaps across product groups. We 9 leverage our talent and shared IP for cloud- and hybrid-cloud solutions to remain agile to changing market conditions. Our R D priorities are to help customers harness the power of public- and multi-cloud solutions, enabling modern data management applications and services, and to enable simple cloud-like experiences on-premises. We design our products and services from the ground up with cloud connectivity in mind, including tiering, disaster recovery, replication, bursting, and migration. We conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the world. Total research and development expenses were $881 million in each of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, and $847 million in fiscal 2020. These costs consist primarily of personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product development activities. Although we develop many of our products internally, we also acquire technology through business combinations or through licensing from third parties when appropriate. We believe that technical leadership is essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development. Competition We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and related services offerings. Cloud, digital transformation, and artificial intelligence initiatives are driving changes in customer and solution requirements. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve. Our hybrid cloud solutions primarily compete with legacy IT and storage vendors. Some offer a broad spectrum of products, solutions and services and others offer a more limited set of storage- and data-management products, solutions or services. Additionally, public cloud providers offer customers storage as an operating expense which competes with more traditional storage offerings that customers acquire through capital expenditures. We both partner with and compete against cloud providers with our public cloud software and services. We rarely see legacy vendors competing in the cloud. We compete with many companies in the cloud operations marketplace, including new companies (startups) and larger software companies who target developers, operations engineering (DevOps) and financial engine