Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 1C Cybersecurity 30 Item 2 Properties 31 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6 [Reserved] 35 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B Other Information 92 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11 Executive Compensation 94 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 94 Signatures 101 3 Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are all statements (and their underlying assumptions) included in this document that refer, directly or indirectly, to future events or outcomes and, as such, are inherently not factual, but rather reflect only our current projections for the future. Consequently, forward-looking statements usually include words such as estimate, intend, plan, predict, seek, may, will, should, would, could, anticipate, expect, believe, or similar words, in each case, intended to refer to future events or circumstances. A non-comprehensive list of the topics including forward-looking statements in this document includes: our future financial and operating results; our strategy; our beliefs and objectives for future operations, research and development; expectations regarding future product releases, growth and performance; political, economic and industry trends; expected timing of, customer acceptance of and benefits from, product introductions, developments and enhancements; expected benefits from acquisitions, joint ventures, growth opportunities and investments; expected outcomes from legal, regulatory and administrative proceedings; our competitive position; our short-term and long-term cash requirements, including, without limitation, anticipated capital expenditures; our anticipated tax rate; the repayment of our indebtedness; and future uses of our cash, including, without limitation, the continuation of our stock repurchase and cash dividend programs. All forward-looking statements included in this document are inherently uncertain as they are based on management s current expectations and assumptions concerning future events and are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual events and results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein include, but are not limited to: the overall growth, technological trends and market changes in the storage and data management solutions market; our ability to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new and differentiated offerings without disruption; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products, solutions and services, and future financial performance; the actions of our competitors including, without limitation, their ability to introduce competitive technologies, products or services, and to acquire businesses and technologies that negatively impact our strategy, operations or customer demand for our products or services; our ability to maintain our gross margins; general global political, macroeconomic, social, health and market conditions; our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business in response to changing market conditions and market demand; our ability to anticipate trends related to the development and use of artificial intelligence (AI), including generative AI, which impacts the adoption of intelligent data infrastructure; disruptions in our supply chain, which could limit our ability to ship products to our customers in the amounts and at the prices forecasted; our ability to maintain our customer, partner, supplier, reseller, distributor and contract manufacturer relationships, including with pubic cloud providers, on favorable terms and conditions; 4 the impact of industry consolidation affecting our suppliers, competitors, partners and customers; our ability to anticipate techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems and to implement adequate preventative measures against cybersecurity and other security breaches on our systems, products and services; our ability to successfully recruit and retain qualified personnel and to manage our investment in people, processes and systems; our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, products, services and technologies; failure of our products and services to meet our customers quality requirements, including, without limitation, any epidemic failure event relating to our systems installed by our customers in their IT infrastructures; changes in U.S. government spending; our ability to resolve ongoing litigation, tax audits, government audits, inquiries and investigations in line with our expectations; the availability of acceptable financing to support our future cash requirements; valuation and liquidity of our investment portfolio; foreign exchange rate impacts; our ability to achieve our goals related to environmental, social and governance matters; and those factors discussed under the heading Risk Factors elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document and are based upon information available to us at this time. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to update information in any forward-looking statement. Actual results could vary from our forward-looking statements due to the foregoing factors as well as other important factors. 5 PA RT I Item 1. Business Overview NetApp, Inc. (NetApp, we, us, or the Company) helps customers make their data infrastructure more seamless, more dynamic, and higher performing. We were incorporated in 1992 and are headquartered in San Jose, California. Building on over three decades of innovation, we combine unified data storage, integrated data services, and CloudOps solutions to make data infrastructure intelligent. Our broad portfolio addresses customer priorities: modernizing legacy infrastructure, improving resiliency against ransomware attacks, and building scalable, high-performance data pipelines for artificial intelligence (AI) workloads. With NetApp, customers can better leverage their data to accelerate innovation, improve operations, and drive competitive advantage. Our unified data storage delivers flexibility to our customers, enabling them to simply and consistently store any data type and power any workload. As the only enterprise-grade storage service natively embedded in the world s largest clouds, we power data across AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud. Our integrated data services enable active data management, security, protection, governance, and sustainability. Finally, our CloudOps solutions enable adaptive operations across infrastructure, applications, and teams. Together, these capabilities comprise an intelligent data infrastructure that delivers: Operational simplicity, so customers can manage complex workloads and eliminate infrastructure silos across apps, data, and clouds. Cyber resilience and security, so businesses stay up and running with built-in ransomware protection, rapid recovery, and infrastructure observability. AI innovation, embedding intelligence into data infrastructure to enable AI workloads that deliver new levels of productivity and innovation. Infrastructure savings, so on-premises and cloud infrastructure spend go further with high-efficiency data storage and automated capacity and cloud cost management. Sustainability, achieved via energy-efficient technologies, tiering, and analytics. Scalability and agility to maximize infrastructure and application scalability and team responsiveness. Product, Solutions and Services Portfolio Our operations are organized into two segments: Hybrid Cloud and Public Cloud. Hybrid Cloud Hybrid Cloud offers a unified data storage portfolio of storage management and infrastructure solutions that help customers modernize their data centers. With the power of on-premises, private cloud and public cloud capabilities to assist customers in modernizing applications with a single solution that supports file, block, and object storage, we deliver a data infrastructure solution for all environments and workloads. Our Hybrid Cloud portfolio supports structured and unstructured data with unified storage optimized for flash, disk, and cloud storage to handle data-intensive workloads and applications. Hybrid Cloud is composed of software, hardware, and related support, as well as professional and other services. Data management software NetApp ONTAP software is our foundational technology that underpins NetApp's critical storage solutions in the on-premises data center and in private and public clouds. ONTAP includes various data management and protection features and capabilities, including automatic ransomware protection against cyber-attacks, built-in data transport features, and storage efficiency capabilities. ONTAP provides the flexibility to design and deploy a storage environment across the broadest range of architectures from on-premises to hybrid, private, and public clouds. It can be used in NAS, SAN, object environments, and software-defined storage (SDS) situations. Data integrity, safety, and business continuity are at the heart of any company s data center. With the extensive software tools and utilities delivered in ONTAP One , our all-in-one software license, customers can realize their business continuity goals with time, costs, and personnel savings. With NetApp Snapshot , customers can create and manage point-in-time file system copies with no performance impact and minimal storage consumption. This is important for continuous data protection of information in read-only, static, and immutable form. NetApp SnapCenter Backup Management software is designed to deliver high-performance backup and recovery for database and application workloads hosted on ONTAP storage. NetApp SnapMirror Data Replication software 6 can replicate data at high speeds across environments. SnapMirror delivers robust data management capabilities for virtualization, protecting critical data while providing the flexibility to move data between locations and storage tiers, including cloud service providers. NetApp SnapLock Data Compliance software delivers high-performance disk-based data permanence for HDD and SSD deployments. NetApp Astra is a fully managed application-aware data management service built for emerging Kubernetes workloads container infrastructures. Astra allows organizations to protect, recover, and move applications deployed on Kubernetes with no software to download, install, manage, or upgrade. Storage infrastructure NetApp All-Flash FAS (AFF A-Series) is a scale-out platform built for virtualized environments, combining low-latency performance via flash memory (also known as a solid-state storage disk) with best-in-class data management, built-in efficiencies, integrated data protection, multiprotocol support, and nondisruptive operations; cloud and on-premises. AFF A-Series, powered by ONTAP, allows customers to connect to clouds for more data services, data tiering, caching, and disaster recovery. The AFF A-Series has a portfolio of products designed for multiple markets and price/performance considerations, from smaller channel commercial market offerings to large-scale, global enterprises. NetApp All-Flash FAS with capacity flash (AFF C-Series) provides customers capacity flash performance and affordability, so that customers do not need to make compromises on price or performance. AFF C-Series arrays, powered by ONTAP, are sustainable, scalable, and secure solutions for Tier 1 and Tier 2 applications. The AFF C-Series is ideal for transitioning from hybrid/HDD to all-flash storage; running non-latency sensitive VMware database applications and file environments; and providing a solution for secondary storage targets for disaster recovery, backup, and tiering. NetApp All-Flash SAN Array (ASA A-Series C-Series) is NetApp s modern block storage with best-in-class speed, efficiency, security, sustainability, and cloud integration to accelerate virtual machines and databases. ASA arrays are also powered by NetApp ONTAP but optimized simply for SAN workloads. The ASA includes a 99.9999% guaranteed uptime and guaranteed 4:1 storage efficiency. NetApp Fabric Attached Storage (FAS) series are high-volume, high-capacity data storage devices powered by NetApp ONTAP. NetApp FAS Storage Arrays provide customers with a balance of performance and capacity running disk drives or hybrid-flash configurations. FAS systems are suitable for secondary storage targets for disaster recovery, backup, and tiering. NetApp E/EF series is built for dedicated, high-bandwidth applications that need simple, fast SAN storage with enterprise-grade reliability. The E-Series is available as a hybrid-flash platform, while the EF-Series is all-flash. Built on the SANtricity storage operating system, the E/EF-Series storage appliances are designed for performance-sensitive workloads like real-time analytics, high-performance computing, and databases. NetApp StorageGRID is a software-defined object storage solution for large archives, media repositories, and web data stores. Using the industry-standard object APIs like the Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), StorageGRID is provided as a NetApp-branded storage solution and as a software-defined solution on third-party hardware. Public Cloud Public Cloud offers a portfolio of products delivered primarily as-a-service, including related support. This portfolio includes cloud storage and CloudOps services. As the only provider of enterprise-grade storage services natively embedded in the world s largest public cloud providers, NetApp helps organizations harness the power of their data and applications. NetApp s CloudOps solutions leverage AI to maximize productivity across infrastructure and applications, boost team productivity, and reduce operations costs. These solutions and services are generally available on the leading public clouds, including Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform. Cloud storage Fully managed cloud storage offerings are available natively on Microsoft Azure as Azure NetApp Files , on AWS as Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP , and on Google Cloud as Google Cloud NetApp Volumes. In addition, NetApp offers NetApp Cloud Volumes ONTAP on AWS, Google Cloud, and Microsoft Azure, a cloud-based software for customers who wish to manage their own cloud storage infrastructure. Our cloud storage services are based on the same ONTAP data management software that underpins our storage infrastructure offerings. 7 Manageability At the heart of our public cloud storage and data service offerings is NetApp BlueXP . BlueXP is a unified control plane that enables customers to manage their entire data landscape through one single, web-based SaaS-delivered control point. NetApp BlueXP combines storage and data services via its unified control plane to change how hybrid, multicloud environments are managed, optimized, and controlled. An intuitive interface and powerful automation help decrease resource waste, complexity, and the risk of managing diverse environments. It brings customers operational simplicity in a complex world. Within BlueXP are standard and optional capabilities (services) which allow customers to control their data and operations. With BlueXP Sync service, customers can migrate data to the cloud securely and efficiently. Customers can choose where to deploy primary workloads without re-architecting applications or databases. Customers also get a comprehensive, industry-leading portfolio of storage efficiency capabilities. Inline data compression, deduplication, compaction, and cloud tiering ( BlueXP Tiering service) work together to reduce storage costs and maximize data storage. NetApp Backup service delivers seamless and cost-effective backup and restore capabilities for protecting and archiving cloud and on-premises data managed by ONTAP. BlueXP Compliance service provides data discovery, mapping, and classification driven by AI algorithms with automated controls and reporting for data privacy regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and more. Lastly, the BlueXP Cache service delivers fast and secure access to data for users by caching active data sets to distributed offices globally. Cloud Operations services NetApp Cloud Insights is an infrastructure monitoring tool that gives organizations visibility into their entire infrastructure. It can monitor, troubleshoot, and optimize costs across all resources, including public clouds and private data centers. Working in conjunction with the BlueXP manageability and control plane services, customers can have deep insights into their data operations. Our Spot by NetApp suite of products enables customers to deploy and operate cloud applications reliably and securely in their choice of public clouds while reducing costs and complexity. Combining machine learning, predictive analytics, and cloud automation, the Spot by NetApp platform continuously optimizes cloud infrastructure and operations to deliver scalable, reliable, and secure application infrastructure. Instaclustr provides fully managed open-source databases, pipelines, and workflow applications delivered as a service. Instaclustr helps organizations deliver cloud-native applications at scale by operating and supporting the data infrastructure through its SaaS platform for those designing and building around open-source technologies while not wanting to maintain that infrastructure themselves. Professional and Support Services NetApp and our certified services partners offer a comprehensive portfolio of assessment, design, implementation, migration, and proactive support services to help customers optimize the performance and efficiency of their on-premises and hybrid multicloud storage environments. Our portfolio of offerings includes storage-as-a-service (STaaS), strategic consulting, professional, managed, and support services. NetApp Keystone is our pay-as-you-grow, STaaS offering that delivers a seamless hybrid cloud experience for those preferring operating expense consumption models to upfront capital expense or leasing. With a unified management console and monthly bill for both on-premises and cloud data storage services, Keystone lets organizations provision, monitor, and even move storage spend across their hybrid cloud environment for financial and operational flexibility. NetApp strategic consulting services provide executive-level, high-touch consulting engagements to help organizations facilitate the alignment of their business and technology goals. Our proven expertise can help organizations define long-term data fabric strategies and operations models to drive IT initiatives for digital transformation. NetApp's Professional Services offer specialized expertise to minimize risks and simplify the process of designing, implementing, migrating, and integrating NetApp hybrid cloud solutions. This enables businesses to reap the benefits of new technology investments more quickly. Our highly skilled service experts help ensure secure and optimized environments, delivering consistent, high-quality outcomes that meet customers' expectations from the start. NetApp Managed Services can optimize the performance and efficiency of your IT infrastructure, whether you have a hybrid cloud or on-premises environment. Our experienced NetApp experts follow a proven methodology and industry best practices to monitor, administer, operate, and optimize your IT environment. This allows your organization's IT staff to focus on driving business initiatives forward, without worrying about the day-to-day management of your IT infrastructure. 8 NetApp Global Support offers a wide range of solutions, including systems, processes, and personnel, to support uninterrupted operation in complex and critical environments. Our focus is on providing proactive and preemptive technology support to help ensure operational continuity across the NetApp hybrid cloud. We offer personalized support options that provide actionable intelligence to resolve problems faster, minimize downtime, and optimize the performance of the entire NetApp ecosystem. Sales, Principal Markets, and Distribution Channels We market and sell our products and services in numerous countries throughout the world. Our sales efforts are organized around the evolving needs of our current and targeted customers, and our marketing initiatives reflect this focus. NetApp uses a multichannel distribution strategy. We sell our products, solutions and services to end-user business customers and service providers through a direct sales force and an ecosystem of partners, including the leading cloud providers. Our marketing is focused on building our brand reputation, creating market awareness, communicating customer advantages and generating demand for our sales force and channel partners. Our diversified customer base spans industry segments and vertical markets such as energy, financial services, government, technology, internet, life sciences, healthcare services, manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation, video postproduction and telecommunications. NetApp focuses primarily on the enterprise storage and data management, cloud storage and cloud operations markets. We design our products to meet the evolving requirements of a hybrid, multicloud world, driven by digital transformation and cloud initiatives. Our partnerships with the industry s leading cloud, infrastructure, consulting, application, and reseller partners are created with one goal in mind: the success of our customers. Global enterprises, local businesses, and government agencies look to NetApp and our ecosystem of partners to help maximize the business value of their IT and cloud investments. We work with a wide range of partners for our customers, including technology partners, value-added resellers, system integrators, OEMs, service providers and distributors. During fiscal 2024, sales through our indirect channels represented 76% of our net revenues. Our global partner ecosystem is critical to NetApp s growth and success. We are continually strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new ones to ensure we are meeting the evolving needs of our customers. As of April 26, 2024, our worldwide sales and marketing functions consisted of approximately 5,300 managers, sales representatives and technical support personnel. We have offices in approximately 24 countries. Sales to customers Arrow Electronics, Inc. and TD Synnex Corporation each accounted for 22% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2024. Information about sales to and accounts receivables from our major customers, segment disclosures, foreign operations and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in Note 15 Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Seasonality We have historically experienced a sequential decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth quarter, and because sales to European customers are typically weaker during the summer months. We derive a substantial amount of our revenue in any given quarter from customer orders booked in the same quarter. Customer orders and revenues typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the end of the quarter. If recurring services and cloud revenue continue to increase as a percentage of our total revenues, historical seasonal patterns may become less pronounced. Backlog We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers demand. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. A substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancelable prior to shipment without penalty. In certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. Our business is characterized by seasonal and intra-quarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery schedules. Accordingly, backlog at any given time may not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue. Manufacturing and Supply Chain We have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in Fremont, California; San Jose, California; San Antonio, Texas; Guadalajara, Mexico; Schiphol Airport, The Netherlands; Tiszaujvaros, Hungary; Wuxi, China; Taoyuan City, Taiwan; and Singapore. These operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and finished 9 systems. We strive to have multiple suppliers qualified to provide critical components where possible and have our products manufactured in a number of locations to mitigate our supply chain risk. Our strategy has been to develop close relationships with our suppliers, maximizing the exchange of critical information and facilitating the implementation of joint quality programs. We use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies and final system configuration. This manufacturing strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion. We are certified to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 certification standards. We have been Tier 2 certified under the U.S. Customs and Border Protection s (CBP) Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) program since January 2015. Research and Development Our research and development team delivers innovation to help customers create an evolved cloud experience. Our R D structure allows us to align and accelerate the execution of our strategies and roadmaps across product groups. We leverage our talent and shared IP for cloud- and hybrid-cloud solutions to remain agile to changing market conditions. Our R D priorities are defined by how we can help customers realize operational simplicity, cyber resilience and security, AI innovation, infrastructure savings and agility, and sustainability. We design our products and services from the ground up with cloud connectivity in mind, including our capabilities for cyber resiliency, tiering, disaster recovery, replication, bursting, and migration. We conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the world. Total research and development expenses were $1,029 million in fiscal 2024, $956 million in fiscal 2023 and $881 million in fiscal 2022. These costs consist primarily of personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product development activities. Although we develop many of our products internally, we also acquire technology through business combinations or through licensing from third parties when appropriate. We believe that technical leadership is essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development. Competition We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and related services offerings. Cloud, digital transformation, and AI initiatives are driving changes in customer and solution requirements. We compete with many companies in the storage and data management markets. Our hybrid cloud solutions primarily compete with legacy IT and storage vendors. Some offer a broad spectrum of products, solutions and services and others offer a more limited set of storage and data-management products, solutions or services. Additionally, public cloud providers offer customers storage as an operating expense which competes with more traditional storage offerings that customers acquire through capital expenditures. We both partner with and compete against cloud providers with our public cloud software and services. Legacy vendors are not often encountered in the cloud storage services market as competitors. We compete with many companies in the cloud operations marketplace, including new companies (startups) and larger software companies who target developers, operations engineering (DevOps) and financial engineering (FinOps). Some companies 