Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 14 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1C Cybersecurity 33 Item 2 Properties 34 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 34 Supplemental Item Information About Our Executive Officers 35 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6 Reserved 38 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 95 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 95 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 172 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 172 Item 9B Other Information 174 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 174 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 174 Item 11 Executive Compensation 174 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 174 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 174 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 174 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 175 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 178 Signatures 179 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION i GLOSSARY OF TERMS When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below: AFS Available for Sale AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee AMA Basel Advanced Measurement Approach AML Anti-Money Laundering AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income AS Asset Servicing ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update AUC/A Assets Under Custody/Administration AUM Assets Under Management Bank The Northern Trust Company Banking book Northern Trust s structural assets, liabilities, net investments, and off-balance sheet instruments subject to interest rate risk and/or foreign currency risk. It is distinct from the trading book. Basel Committee International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Basel III Industry-standard guidelines published by the Basel Committee Basel III Endgame Proposal Proposed rule issued by U.S. banking agencies to implement the Basel III endgame agreement for large banks BMR European Union Benchmarks Regulation Brexit The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union BRRD Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (EU) Business Risk Committee Business Risk Committee of the Board of Directors CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCPA California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended CDFIs Community Development Financial Institutions CEOC Compliance Ethics Oversight Committee CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Corporation Northern Trust Corporation CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRC Credit Risk Committee CRD Capital Requirements Directive of June 26, 2013 (EU) CRO Chief Risk Officer CRR Capital Requirements Regulation of June 26, 2013 (EU) CSD Central Securities Depositories CSDR Central Securities Depositories Regulation (EU) CSSF Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (Luxembourg) DE I Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DFAST Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests DGS Deposit Guarantee Schemes DGSD Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive DIF Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ECB European Central Bank EEA European Economic Area EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation 648/2012 EOP End of Period ii 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS (continued) ESG Environmental, Social and Governance EU European Union Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCA Financial Conduct Authority FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve Board The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FICC Fixed Income Clearing Corporation FinCEN Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FRC Fiduciary Risk Committee FTE Fully Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing FX Foreign Exchange GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GDPR General Data Protection Regulation GERC Global Enterprise Risk Committee GFX Global Foreign Exchange GILTI Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income GSIB Global Systemically Important Banks HTM Held to Maturity HQLAs High-Quality Liquid Assets IBA ICE Benchmark Administration Investment Advisers Act Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended IR Interest Rate IRD Interest Rate Derivative ITRC Information Technology Risk Committee LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR Final Rule Regulation promulgated by U.S. federal banking regulators to implement LCR requirements in the United States for certain banking organizations. LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR Act Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis MIFID Market in Financial Instruments Directive MIFIR Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation MLD5 Fifth EU Money Laundering Directive MLRC Market Liquidity Risk Committee MREL Minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (EU) MROC Model Risk Oversight Committee MSDC Macroeconomic Scenario Development Committee MVE Market Value of Equity NAICS North American Industry Classification System NAV Net Asset Value NFA National Futures Association NFTS Northern Trust Fiduciary Services (Guernsey) Limited NII Net Interest Income 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION iii GLOSSARY OF TERMS (continued) N/M Not Meaningful NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio requirement in the United States NSFR Final Rule Regulation promulgated by U.S. federal banking regulators to implement NSFR requirements in the United States for certain banking organizations. OFAC U.S. Department of the Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control ORC Operational Risk Committee OREO Other Real Estate Owned OTC Over-the-Counter PD Probability of Default PIPL Personal Information Protection Law (China) PRA Prudential Regulation Authority ROU Right-of-use RWA Risk-Weighted Assets SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Series D Preferred Stock Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series E Preferred Stock Series E Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock SOFR Secured Overnight Finance Rate SFDR Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulations (EU) SRD II Shareholder Rights Directive (EU) SFTR Securities Financing Transactions and Reuse of Collateral Taxonomy Regulations Regulation (EU) 2020/852 TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring Trading book Foreign (non-U.S.) currency trading positions subject to foreign currency risk, as well as trading securities and interest rate derivative transactions, both subject to interest rate risk. UCITS Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities UK United Kingdom UK GDPR General Data Protection Regulation in the UK USD LIBOR U.S. Dollar LIBOR VaR Value-at-Risk VIE Variable Interest Entity WM Wealth Management WRC Workforce Risk Committee iv 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Northern Trust Corporation Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation is a financial holding company conducting business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust Company (Bank). The Bank is an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in Chicago and the Corporation s principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries. At December 31, 2023, the Bank had consolidated assets of $150.3 billion and common bank equity capital of $11.6 billion. The Corporation was formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a global presence with offices in 24 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., and across 22 locations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2023, the Corporation had consolidated total assets of $150.8 billion and stockholders equity of $11.9 billion. The Corporation expects that the Bank will continue in the foreseeable future to be the major source of the Corporation s consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise requires, references to Northern Trust, we, us, our, its, or similar terms mean Northern Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Business Overview Northern Trust focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other support functions are allocated fully to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Northern Trust reports certain income and expense items not allocated to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management in a third reporting segment, Other. ASSET SERVICING Asset Servicing is a leading global provider of asset servicing and related services to corporate and public retirement funds, foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors around the globe. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of capabilities including but not limited to: custody; fund administration; investment operations outsourcing; investment management; investment risk and analytical services; employee benefit services; securities lending; foreign exchange; treasury management; brokerage services; transition management services; banking; and cash management. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank s and the Corporation s other subsidiaries, including support from locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2023, total Asset Servicing assets under custody/administration (AUC/A), assets under custody, and assets under management (AUM) were $14.36 trillion, $10.88 trillion, and $1.03 trillion, respectively. WEALTH MANAGEMENT Wealth Management focuses on high-net-worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. In supporting these targeted segments, Wealth Management provides trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; family business consulting; family financial education; brokerage services; and private and business banking. Wealth Management also includes Global Family Office, which provides customized services, including but not limited to: investment consulting; global custody; fiduciary; and private banking; family office consulting, and technology solutions, to meet the complex financial and reporting needs of ultra-high-net-worth individuals and family offices across the globe. Wealth Management is one of the largest providers of advisory services in the United States, with AUC/A, assets under custody, and AUM of $1.04 trillion, $1.03 trillion, and $402.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2023. Wealth Management services are delivered by multidisciplinary teams through a network of offices in 19 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London, Guernsey, and Abu Dhabi. 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION 1 ASSET MANAGEMENT Asset Management, through the Corporation s various subsidiaries, supports the Asset Servicing and Wealth Management reporting segments by providing a broad range of asset management and related services and other products to clients around the world. Investment solutions are delivered through separately managed accounts, bank common and collective funds, registered investment companies, exchange traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds, and unregistered private investment funds. Asset Management s capabilities include active and passive equity; active and passive fixed income; cash management; multi-asset and alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of funds); and multi-manager advisory services and products. Asset Management s activities also include overlay services and other risk management services. Asset Management operates internationally through subsidiaries and distribution arrangements and its revenue and expense are fully allocated to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. As discussed above, Northern Trust managed $1.43 trillion in assets as of December 31, 2023, including $1.03 trillion for Asset Servicing clients and $402.5 billion for Wealth Management clients. Competition Northern Trust faces intense competition in all aspects and areas of its business. Competition comes from both regulated and unregulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the local, national, and global markets in which Northern Trust conducts operations. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and service companies, including other custodial banks, investment counseling firms, deposit-taking institutions, asset management firms, benefits consultants, trust companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, and various financial technology companies, including software providers and data services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. Northern Trust s business strategy is to provide quality financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to differentiate itself from its competitors with premier, holistic solutions and exceptional experiences tailored to meet clients needs. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring and scalable sources of fee-based income and continual productivity improvements. Northern Trust also seeks to maintain its foundational strength with a strong, conservative balance sheet and a globally respected brand. Economic Conditions And Government Policies The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic and international, and actions that governments and their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of its loan and investment portfolios. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) implements monetary policy through its open market operations in United States Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks, and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board directly affect interest rates and therefore what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds. Supervision and Regulation Northern Trust is subject to extensive regulation under state and federal laws in the United States and in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business. The descriptions below outline significant elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Northern Trust and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. These descriptions do not summarize all laws and regulations applicable to Northern Trust or all possible or proposed changes to such laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statutes or regulatory provisions. Changes in laws or regulations applicable to Northern Trust may have a material effect on its businesses and results of operations. The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Northern Trust is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including the banking turmoil in early 2023, technological factors, market changes, and climate change concerns. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Northern Trust expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and heightened supervision. FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. A financial holding company is permitted to engage in a broader range of financial activities than a bank holding company. The Federal Reserve Board has authority to limit the activities that a financial holding company may conduct if any depository institution controlled by the financial 2 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION holding company is found to no longer be well-capitalized and well-managed or has not received at least a satisfactory rating in its most recent Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) examination. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements may result in restrictions on the Corporation s ability to exercise powers granted to financial holding companies, to engage in new activities, to continue current activities, or to make acquisitions. SUBSIDIARY REGULATION The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, with deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and is subject to regulation by both agencies. As an Illinois banking corporation, the Bank is also subject to Illinois state laws and regulations and to examination and supervision by the Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is registered as a swap dealer with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) under the Commodity Exchange Act. As a result, the Bank is subject to supervision, examination and enforcement by certain other regulatory bodies, including the CFTC and the National Futures Association (NFA). The Corporation s nonbanking affiliates are subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board and, in certain circumstances, other functional regulators, as discussed in greater detail below. ENHANCED PRUDENTIAL STANDARDS Under the Federal Reserve Board s tailoring rules, the Corporation is subject to the enhanced prudential standards applicable to Category II banking organizations. As a Category II institution, the Corporation must submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board, conduct supervisory and internal periodic stress tests to evaluate capital adequacy in adverse economic conditions, maintain enhanced risk management procedures, comply with a liquidity risk management framework (discussed below in Liquidity Standards ) and single counterparty credit limits, conduct liquidity stress tests, and hold a buffer of liquid assets estimated to meet funding needs during a financial stress event. The Corporation is not subject to all of the standards applicable to U.S. bank holding companies that are global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIBs), such as the total loss-absorbing capacity requirement, capital surcharge, enhanced supplementary leverage ratio, or additional single counterparty credit limits. LONG-TERM DEBT AND CLEAN HOLDING COMPANY REQUIREMENTS In the summer of 2023, the U.S. banking regulators proposed a rule that would require banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets to comply with long-term debt requirements and clean holding company requirements similar to those that currently apply only to GSIBs. This proposal would also impose a long-term debt requirement on certain categories of insured depository institutions that are not consolidated subsidiaries of U.S. GSIBs, including insured depository institutions with $100 billion or more in total assets, such as the Bank. If adopted, this proposal would require the Corporation and the Bank to each maintain a minimum outstanding eligible long-term debt amount of no less than the greatest of (i) 6% of risk-weighted assets (RWAs), (ii) 2.5% of total leverage exposure, and (iii) 3.5% of average total consolidated assets. The Bank would be required to issue the minimum amount of eligible long-term debt to the Corporation, and the Corporation would be required to issue the minimum amount of eligible long-term debt externally. In addition, if adopted as proposed, the clean holding company requirement would limit or prohibit the Corporation from entering into certain transactions that could impede its orderly resolution, including, for example, prohibiting the Corporation from entering into transactions that could spread losses to subsidiaries and third parties, as well as limiting the amount of the Corporation s liabilities that are not eligible long-term debt. The public comment period on this proposed rule ran through January 16, 2024. RESOLUTION PLANNING As required by Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the Corporation is required to submit periodically to the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC a resolution plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. In August 2023, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC proposed updated guidance on resolution planning requirements applicable to the Corporation under Section 165(d). The Corporation s next 2024 165(d) plan submission is due to the FDIC and Federal Reserve Board by March 31, 2025. In addition, the Bank, as an insured depository institution, is required to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of its failure, with the next plan being due for submission on December 1, 2024. In August 2023, the FDIC issued a proposed rule that would require covered insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, to submit a full resolution plan to the FDIC every two years and submit an interim supplement in each year that it is not required to submit a full resolution plan. The proposed rule would also increase the content requirements for plan submissions and introduce a new credibility standard for the FDIC s evaluation of resolution plans, which would be enforceable against the covered insured depository institutions. 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION 3 Separately, the European Union Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) sets out the framework for the recovery and resolution of European Union (EU) credit institutions and systemically-important investment firms, including certain of the Bank s subsidiaries and branches. The BRRD establishes a set of harmonized rules for early intervention measures, recovery and resolution planning, bail-in powers and requirements for total loss absorbing capital for EU institutions, collectively known as minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL). Northern Trust Global Services SE, a Luxembourg-incorporated indirect subsidiary of the Bank, is authorized and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB) and subject to the prudential supervision of the ECB and the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). As such, Northern Trust Global Services SE falls within the scope of the BRRD and its recovery and resolution planning is overseen by the CSSF and the Single Resolution Board (the resolution authority for ECB-supervised institutions). The United Kingdom (UK) has established a special resolution regime and a resolvability assessment framework overseen by the Bank of England (as the UK resolution authority) with many similar features to the BRRD, which was substantially incorporated into UK law following the withdrawal of the UK from the EU. The special resolution regime applies to firms that are permitted to accept deposits under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. As such, the London branch of the Bank, as a UK branch of a third-country institution that accepts deposits, falls within the scope of the special resolution regime. ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, such as the Corporation and certain of its covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to an orderly liquidation authority if in default or danger of default and their resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States, among other requirements set by statute. If the Corporation were subject to orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as its receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable powers to resolve the Corporation. Absent such actions, the Corporation, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. THE VOLCKER RULE. The Volcker Rule generally prohibits banking entities, including the Bank and its affiliates, from engaging in proprietary trading, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions, such as for market-making, hedging, certain trading activities in U.S. and foreign sovereign debt, and trading activities related to liquidity management. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments in, and relationships with, covered funds as defined in the Volcker Rule, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and similar funds, subject to a number of exemptions and exclusions. Northern Trust maintains an enterprise-wide compliance program to comply with the Volcker Rule. HOLDING COMPANY AS A SOURCE OF STRENGTH The Corporation, as a bank holding company, is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its depository institution subsidiary. Under this requirement, the Corporation could be required to commit resources to the Bank should the Bank experience financial distress. PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS The Corporation may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions only in accordance with the capital plan rules and capital adequacy standards of the Federal Reserve Board, including the stress capital buffer requirement, discussed further in Capital Adequacy Requirements below. Dividends from the Bank are a significant source of funds for the Corporation, and the Corporation s ability to pay dividends on its common stock therefore depends in part on the ability of the Bank to pay sufficient dividends to the Corporation. Various other federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the Bank to the Corporation without regulatory consent. The Bank may not pay any dividends if it is undercapitalized, or if the payment of the dividend would cause it to become undercapitalized. In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid in a calendar year is limited to its recent earnings (the current year s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years), or its undivided profits (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus), whichever is less. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation may also be affected by the capital adequacy standards applicable to the Bank (discussed further below), which include minimum requirements and buffers. CAPITAL PLANNING AND STRESS TESTING The Corporation s capital distributions are subject to the Federal Reserve Board s capital plan rules, which require the Corporation to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board for review. The major components of that oversight are the Federal Reserve Board s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests (DFAST). These requirements involve both company-run and supervisory-run 4 2023 ANNUAL REPORT | NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION testing of capital under various scenarios, including baseline and severely adverse scenarios provided by the appropriate banking regulator. Under the DFAST regulations, the Corporation is required to undergo regulatory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve Board annually. The Bank also is required to conduct its own annual internal stress test (although it is permitted to combine certain reporting and disclosure of its stress test results with the results of the Corporation). Results from the Corporation s and the Bank s annual company-run stress tests are reported to the appropriate regulators and made publicly available. Northern Trust published the results of its most recent company-run stress tests on June 28, 2023. CAPITAL ADEQUACY REQUIREMENTS The Corporation, as a bank holding company, is subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines implemented by the Federal Reserve Board that are based on industry-standard guidelines published by the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), known as Basel III. The Bank, as an FDIC-insured depository institution, is also required to meet risk-based and leverage capital guidelines established by regulators which are generally similar to those established by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding companies. Under the Basel III rules, the Corporation, with the Bank, is a core banking organization that is required to use the