Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 26 Supplemental Item I nformation About Our Executive Officers 26 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6 Reserved 29 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 86 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 86 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 167 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 167 Item 9B Other Information 169 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 169 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 169 Item 11 Executive Compensation 169 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 169 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 169 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 169 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 170 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 173 Signatures 174 i 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation Glossary of Terms When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below: AFS Available for Sale AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee AMA Basel Advanced Measurement Approach AML Anti-Money Laundering AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ARRC Alternative Reference Rate Committee ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update AUC/A Assets Under Custody/Administration Bank The Northern Trust Company Banking book Northern Trust s structural assets, liabilities, net investments, and off-balance sheet instruments subject to interest rate risk and/or foreign currency risk. It is distinct from the trading book. Basel Committee International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BMR European Union Benchmarks Regulation BRRD Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (EU) C IS Corporate Institutional Services CARES Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCPA California Consumer Privacy Act CDFIs Community Development Financial Institutions CEOC Compliance Ethics Oversight Committee CFA Criminal Finances Act (UK) CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Commission European Commission Corporation Northern Trust Corporation CPRA California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRC Credit Risk Committee CRD Capital Requirements Directive of June 26, 2013 (EU) CRD V European Commission revisions to the CRD, effective December 29, 2020 CRO Chief Risk Officer CRR Capital Requirements Regulation of June 26, 2013 (EU) CRR II European Commission revisions to the CRR, effective June 28, 2021 CSDR Central Securities Depositories Regulation (EU) CSSF Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (Luxembourg) DE I Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DFAST Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests DGS Deposit Guarantee Schemes DGSD Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act EBA European Banking Authority ECB European Central Bank Economic Aid Act The Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits and Venues Act EEA European Economic Area ii 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation Glossary of Terms (continued) EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation 648/2012 EOP End of Period ESG Environmental, Social and Governance EU European Union Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCA Financial Conduct Authority FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve Board The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FICC Fixed Income Clearing Corporation FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FRC Fiduciary Risk Committee FTE Fully Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing FX Foreign Exchange GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GDPR General Data Protection Regulation GERC Global Enterprise Risk Committee GFX Global Foreign Exchange GILTI Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income HTM Held to Maturity HQLAs High-Quality Liquid Assets IBA ICE Benchmark Administration IBOR Interbank Offered Rates IR Interest Rate ISTRC Information Security and Technology Risk Committee ITS Implementing Technical Standards LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis MIFID Market in Financial Instruments Directive MIFIR Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation MLD5 Fifth EU Money Laundering Directive MLRC Market Liquidity Risk Committee MREL Minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (EU) MROC Model Risk Oversight Committee MSDC Macroeconomic Scenario Development Committee MVE Market Value of Equity NAICS North American Industry Classification System NAV Net Asset Value NFA National Futures Association NFTS Northern Trust Fiduciary Services (Guernsey) Limited NII Net Interest Income N/M Not Meaningful NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio ORC Operational Risk Committee iii 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation Glossary of Terms (continued) OREO Other Real Estate Owned OTC Over-the-Counter OTTI Other-Than-Temporary Impairment PD Probability of Default PPP Paycheck Protection Program PRA Prudential Regulation Authority Regulatory Relief Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act ROU Right-of-use RTS Regulatory Technical Standards RWA Risk Weighted Assets SBA U.S. Small Business Administration SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Series D Preferred Stock Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series E Preferred Stock Series E Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock SOFR Secured Overnight Finance Rate SFDR Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulations (EU) SRD II Shareholder Rights Directive (EU) SFTR Securities Financing Transactions and Reuse of Collateral Taxonomy Regulations Regulation (EU) 2020/852 TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring Trading book Foreign (non-U.S.) currency trading positions subject to foreign currency risk, as well as trading securities and interest rate derivative transactions, both subject to interest rate risk. UCITS Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities UK United Kingdom USD LIBOR U.S. Dollar LIBOR VaR Value-at-Risk VIE Variable Interest Entity WM Wealth Management iv 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Northern Trust Corporation Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation is a financial holding company conducting business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust Company (Bank). The Bank is an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in Chicago and the Corporation s principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries. At December 31, 2021, the Bank had consolidated assets of $183.7 billion and common bank equity capital of $11.1 billion. The Corporation was formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a global presence with offices in 23 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., and across 23 locations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2021, the Corporation had consolidated total assets of $183.9 billion and stockholders equity of $12.0 billion. The Corporation expects that the Bank will continue in the foreseeable future to be the major source of the Corporation s consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise requires, references to Northern Trust, we, us, our, its, or similar terms mean Northern Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Business Overview Northern Trust focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Corporate Institutional Services (C IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other support functions are allocated fully to C IS and Wealth Management. Northern Trust reports certain income and expense items not allocated to C IS and Wealth Management in a third reporting segment, Other. CORPORATE INSTITUTIONAL SERVICES C IS is a leading global provider of asset servicing and related services to corporate and public retirement funds, foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors around the globe. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of capabilities including but not limited to: custody; fund administration; investment operations outsourcing; investment management; investment risk and analytical services; employee benefit services; securities lending; foreign exchange; treasury management; brokerage services; transition management services; banking; and cash management. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank s and the Corporation s other subsidiaries, including support from locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2021, total C IS assets under custody/administration, assets under custody, and assets under management were $15.18 trillion, $11.55 trillion, and $1.19 trillion, respectively. WEALTH MANAGEMENT Wealth Management focuses on high-net-worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. In supporting these targeted segments, Wealth Management provides trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; family business consulting; family financial education; brokerage services; and private and business banking. Wealth Management also includes Global Family Office, which provides customized services, including but not limited to: investment consulting; global custody; fiduciary; and private banking to meet the complex financial needs of ultra-high-net-worth individuals and family offices across the globe. Wealth Management is one of the largest providers of advisory services in the United States, with assets under custody/administration, assets under custody, and assets under management of $1.07 trillion, $1.06 trillion, and $416.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2021. Wealth Management services are delivered by multidisciplinary teams through a network of offices in 19 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London, Guernsey, and Abu Dhabi. ASSET MANAGEMENT Asset Management, through the Corporation s various subsidiaries, supports the C IS and Wealth Management reporting segments by providing a broad range of asset management and related services and other products to clients around the world. Investment solutions are delivered through separately managed accounts, bank common and collective 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 1 funds, registered investment companies, exchange traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds, and unregistered private investment funds. Asset Management s capabilities include active and passive equity; active and passive fixed income; cash management; multi-asset and alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of funds); and multi-manager advisory services and products. Asset Management s activities also include overlay services and other risk management services. Asset Management operates internationally through subsidiaries and distribution arrangements and its revenue and expense are fully allocated to C IS and Wealth Management. As discussed above, Northern Trust managed $1.61 trillion in assets as of December 31, 2021, including $1.19 trillion for C IS clients and $416.1 billion for Wealth Management clients. Competition Northern Trust faces intense competition in all aspects and areas of its business. Competition comes from both regulated and unregulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the local, national, and global markets in which Northern Trust conducts operations. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and service companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, asset management firms, benefits consultants, trust companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, and various financial technology companies, including software providers and data services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. Northern Trust s business strategy is to provide quality financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to differentiate itself from its competitors with premier, holistic solutions and exceptional experiences tailored to meet clients needs. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and continual productivity improvements. Northern Trust also seeks to maintain its foundational strength with a strong, conservative balance sheet and a globally respected brand. Economic Conditions And Government Policies The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic and international, and actions that governments and their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of its loan and investment portfolios. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) implements monetary policy through its open market operations in United States Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks, and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board directly affect interest rates and therefore what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds. Supervision and Regulation Northern Trust is subject to extensive regulation under state and federal laws in the United States and in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business. The discussion below outlines significant elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Northern Trust. Changes in laws or regulations applicable to Northern Trust may have a material effect on its businesses and results of operations. FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. A financial holding company is permitted to engage in a broader range of financial activities than a bank holding company. The Federal Reserve Board has authority to limit the activities that a financial holding company may conduct if any depository institution controlled by the financial holding company is found to no longer be well-capitalized and well-managed or has not received at least a satisfactory rating in its most recent Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) examination. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements may result in restrictions on the Corporation s ability to exercise powers granted to financial holding companies, to engage in new activities, to continue current activities, or to make acquisitions. SUBSIDIARY REGULATION The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, with deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and is subject to regulation by both agencies. As an Illinois banking corporation, the Bank is also subject to Illinois state laws and regulations and to examination and supervision by the Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is registered provisionally as a swap dealer with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission 2 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation (CFTC) under the Commodity Exchange Act. As a result, the Bank is subject to supervision, examination and enforcement by certain other regulatory bodies, including the CFTC and the National Futures Association (NFA). The Corporation s nonbanking affiliates are subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board and, in certain circumstances, other functional regulators. The Corporation s broker-dealer subsidiary is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a broker-dealer, investment adviser, and municipal securities dealer, and is subject to the rules and regulations of these bodies. Certain nonbanking affiliates are registered with the CFTC as commodity trading advisors and commodity pool operators and subject to supervision and regulation by the CFTC and NFA. Other subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and are subject to regulation by the SEC. Subsidiaries may also be regulated by state regulators in various states. THE DODD-FRANK ACT, AS AMENDED The following items provide a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), as implemented through final rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board and other agencies and amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the Regulatory Relief Act), most relevant to the Corporation and its subsidiaries, including the Bank. Enhanced Prudential Standards. The Dodd-Frank Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board through various rulemakings and amended by the Regulatory Relief Act, generally imposes enhanced prudential requirements on U.S. bank holding companies with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets, including the Corporation. The enhanced prudential standards include stringent risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management, and stress testing requirements and single counterparty credit limits for large bank holding companies, including the Corporation. The Federal Reserve Board also has the discretion to require these large U.S. bank holding companies to limit their short-term debt, to issue contingent capital instruments, and to provide enhanced public disclosures. In October 2019, the Federal Reserve Board finalized a proposed rule implementing changes made by the Regulatory Relief Act. This rule introduced a new four-category framework to determine which enhanced prudential standards and other requirements are applicable to institutions with total consolidated assets of at least $100 billion, based on asset thresholds and other risk-based factors. Under the new rules, the Corporation is classified as a Category II institution. The requirements under the new framework that apply to the Corporation are largely unchanged as a result of the Federal Reserve Board s final tailoring rule for enhanced prudential standards. The Corporation must submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board, conduct supervisory and internal periodic stress tests to evaluate capital adequacy in adverse economic conditions, maintain enhanced risk management procedures, comply with a liquidity risk management framework (discussed below in Liquidity Standards ) and aggregate credit exposure limits, conduct liquidity stress tests, and hold a buffer of liquid assets estimated to meet funding needs during a financial stress event. The Corporation is not subject to the total loss-absorbing capacity requirement, capital surcharge, enhanced supplementary leverage ratio, or aggregate credit exposure limit that apply to U.S. bank holding companies that are global systemically important bank holding companies. Resolution Planning. As required by Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Corporation is required to submit periodically to regulators a resolution plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. In addition, under an FDIC rule (the CIDI Resolution Plan Rule) the Bank must submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of its failure. On March 29, 2019, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC provided joint written feedback to the Corporation regarding the resolution plan submitted by the Corporation in December 2017, pursuant to Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act (the 2017 165(d) Plan). The joint written feedback stated that the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC did not identify shortcomings or deficiencies in the 2017 165(d) Plan. On December 9, 2020, the Corporation received written guidance from the FDIC and Federal Reserve confirming that the 2021 resolution plan submission would be a targeted plan and include a targeted information request related to actions in response to events surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. On December 17, 2021, the Corporation submitted its 2021 Section 165(d) resolution plan. In this submission, the Corporation addressed the requirements of a targeted resolution plan, as well as the targeted information request specified in the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC guidance letter. In addition, on June 27, 2018, the Bank submitted its resolution plan (the 2018 CIDI Plan) to the FDIC under the CIDI Resolution Plan Rule. To date, no formal written feedback or guidance has been received regarding the 2018 CIDI Plan. On January 19, 2021, the FDIC announced that it will resume requiring resolution plan submissions for insured depository institutions with $100 billion or more in assets. The FDIC announcement indicated that no firm will be required to submit a resolution plan without at least 12 months advance notice provided to the firm. To date, the Bank has not received notice from the FDIC indicating its next resolution plan submission date. Separately, the European Union Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) sets out the framework for the recovery and resolution of European Union (EU) credit institutions and investment firms, including certain of the Bank s 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 3 subsidiaries and branches, effective January 1, 2015. The BRRD established a set of harmonized rules for early intervention measures, recovery and resolution planning, bail-in powers and requirements for total loss absorbing capital for EU institutions, collectively known as minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL). The BRRD was materially amended, including with respect to the MREL requirements, with the amended directive coming into force in December 2020. Northern Trust Global Services SE, a Luxembourg-incorporated indirect subsidiary of the Bank, is authorized and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB) and subject to the prudential supervision of the ECB and the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). As such, Northern Trust Global Services SE falls within the scope of the BRRD and its recovery and resolution planning is overseen by the CSSF and Single Resolution Board (the resolution authority for ECB-supervised institutions). The United Kingdom (UK) has established a special resolution regime and a resolvability assessment framework overseen by the Bank of England (as the UK resolution authority) which has many similar features to the BRRD, which was substantially incorporated into UK law following the withdrawal of the UK from the EU. The special resolution regime applies to firms that are permitted to accept deposits under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. As such, the London branch of the Bank, as a UK branch of a third-country institution that accepts deposits, falls within the scope of the special resolution regime. Orderly Liquidation Authority. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, such as the Corporation and certain of its covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to an orderly liquidation authority if in default or danger of default and their resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States, among other requirements set by statute. If the Corporation were subject to orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as its receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable powers to resolve the Corporation. Absent such actions, the Corporation, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Volcker Rule . The Volcker Rule bans proprietary trading subject to exceptions, such as for market-making, hedging, certain trading activities in U.S. and foreign sovereign debt, certain trading activities of non-U.S. banking entities trading outside the United States, and trading activities related to liquidity management. The Volcker Rule also imposes significant restrictions on sponsoring or investing in certain covered funds, such as hedge funds or private equity funds, again subject to exceptions. Northern Trust maintains an enterprise-wide compliance program to comply with the Volcker Rule. Swaps and Other Derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act imposed a regulatory structure on the over-the-counter derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, trade reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires certain entities to register as a major swap participant, a swap dealer, a major-security-based swap participant or a security-based swap dealer. The Bank is required to register as a swap dealer and its swap dealer activities are subject to the CFTC s rules and regulations, including rules regarding internal and external business conduct standards, reporting and recordkeeping, mandatory clearing for certain swaps, trade documentation and confirmation requirements, and cross-border swap activities. The Bank is also subject to Federal Reserve Board regulations regarding mandatory posting and collection of margin by certain swap counterparties. The Corporation has not registered and does not expect that it, or any of its affiliates, will be required to register as a security-based swap dealer with the SEC. HOLDING COMPANY SUPPORT UNDER THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE ACT The Dodd-Frank Act amended the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) to obligate the Federal Reserve Board to require bank holding companies, such as the Corporation, to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for any subsidiary depository institution. Under this requirement, the Corporation in the future could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should the Bank experience financial distress. PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS The Corporation may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions only in accordance with the capital plan rules and capital adequacy standards of the Federal Reserve Board, including the stress capital buffer requirement, discussed further in Capital Adequacy Requirements below. Dividends from the Bank are a significant source of funds for the Corporation, and the Corporation s ability to pay dividends on its common stock therefore depends on the ability of the Bank to pay sufficient dividends to the Corporation. Various other federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the Bank to the Corporation without regulatory consent. The Bank may not pay any dividends if it is undercapitalized, or if the payment of the dividend would cause it to become undercapitalized. In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid in a calendar year is limited to its recent earnings (the current year s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years), or its undivided profits (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus), whichever is less. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation may also be affected by the capital adequacy standards applicable to the Bank (discussed further below), which include minimum requirements and buffers. 4 2021 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation CAPITAL PLANNING AND STRESS TESTING The Corporation s capital distributions are subject to the Federal Reserve Board s capital plan rules, which require the Corporation to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board for review. The major components of that oversight are the Federal Reserve Board s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act stress tests (DFAST). These requirements involve both company-run and supervisory-run testing of capital under various scenarios, including baseline and severely adverse scenarios provided by the appropriate banking regulator. Results from the Corporation s and the Bank s annual company-run stress tests are reported to the appropriate regulators and made pub