Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 Information About Our Executive Officers 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B. Other Information 91 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 91 PART III ` Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 92 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 92 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 SIGNATURES 98 i PART I Item 1. Business Overview Nucor Corporation, a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1958, and its affiliates ( Nucor, the Company, we, us or our ) manufacture steel and steel products. The Company also produces direct reduced iron ( DRI ) for use in its steel mills. Through The David J. Joseph Company and its affiliates ( DJJ ), the Company also processes ferrous and nonferrous metals and brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron ( HBI ) and DRI. Most of the Company s operating facilities and customers are located in North America. The Company s operations include international trading and sales companies that buy and sell steel and steel products manufactured by the Company and others. Nucor is North America s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary raw material in producing steel and steel products. In 2021, we recycled approximately 20.4 million gross tons of scrap steel. Segments, Principal Products Produced, and Markets and Marketing Nucor reports its results in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. The steel mills segment is Nucor s largest segment, representing 66% of the Company s sales to external customers in the year ended December 31, 2021. We market products from the steel mills and steel products segments mainly through in-house sales forces. We also utilize our internal distribution and trading companies to market our products abroad. The markets for these products are largely tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in general economic conditions. We are a leading domestic provider for most of the products we supply, and, in many cases (e.g., structural steel, merchant bar steel, steel joist and deck, pre-engineered metal buildings, steel piling, cold finish bar steel, steel electrical conduit pipe and insulated metal panels), we are the leading supplier. Steel mills segment In the steel mills segment, Nucor produces sheet steel (hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized), plate steel, structural steel (wide-flange beams, beam blanks, H-piling and sheet piling) and bar steel (blooms, billets, concrete reinforcing bar, merchant bar and engineered special bar quality ( SBQ )). Nucor manufactures steel principally from scrap steel and scrap steel substitutes using electric arc furnaces ( EAFs ), continuous casting and automated rolling mills. The steel mills segment also includes Nucor s equity method investments in NuMit LLC ( NuMit ) and Nucor-JFE Steel Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. ( Nucor-JFE ), as well as international trading and distribution companies that buy and sell steel manufactured by the Company and other steel producers. The steel mills segment sells its products primarily to steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. The steel mills segment sold approximately 20,296,000 tons to outside customers in 2021. 1 The following chart shows our outside steel shipments by end market: In 2021, 79% of the shipments made by our steel mills segment were to external customers. The remaining 21% of the steel mills segment s shipments went to our steel products segment. Bar mills - Nucor has 15 bar mills strategically located across the United States that manufacture a broad range of steel products, including concrete reinforcing bars, hot-rolled bars, rounds, light shapes, structural angles, channels, wire rod and highway products in carbon and alloy steels. Four of the bar mills have a significant focus on manufacturing SBQ and wire rod products. Steel produced by our bar mills has a wide usage serving end markets, including the agricultural, automotive, construction, energy, furniture, machinery, metal building, railroad, recreational equipment, shipbuilding, heavy truck and trailer market segments. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of bar products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the bar mills is estimated at approximately 9,560,000 tons per year. Reinforcing and merchant bar steel are sold in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers expected orders. Our SBQ products are hot-rolled to exacting specifications primarily servicing the automotive, energy, agricultural, heavy equipment and transportation sectors. In December 2021, Nucor announced that it expects to build a rebar micro mill at a to-be-determined location in the South Atlantic region. Sheet mills - Nucor operates five strategically located sheet mills that utilize thin slab casters to produce flat-rolled steel for automotive, appliance, construction, pipe and tube and many other industrial and consumer applications. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of flat-rolled products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the sheet mills is estimated at approximately 11,300,000 tons per year. All of our sheet mills are equipped with galvanizing lines and four of them are equipped with cold rolling mills for the further processing of hot-rolled sheet steel. 2 Nucor produces hot-rolled, cold- rolled and galvanized sheet steel to customers specifications. Contract sales within the steel mills segment are most notable in our sheet operations, as it is common for contract sales to account for the majority of sheet sales in a given year . We estimate that greater than 80 % of our sheet steel sales in 2021 were to contract customers. The balance of our sheet steel sales w ere made in the spot market at prevailing prices at the time of sale. The amount of tons sold to contract customers at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including our consideration of current and future market conditions, our strategy to appropriately balance spot and contract tons in a manner to meet our customers requirements while considering the expected profitability, our desire to sustain a diversified customer base, and our end-use customers perceptions about future market conditions. These sheet sales contracts are noncancellable agreements that generally incorporate monthly or quarterly price adjustments reflecting changes in the current market-based indices and/or raw material cost , and typically have terms ranging from six to 12 months . In January 2022, Nucor announced that it expects to build a new, state-of-the-art sheet mill in West Virginia. In February 2022, Nucor completed its acquisition of a majority ownership position in California Steel Industries, Inc. ( CSI ), a flat-rolled steel converter, based in Fontana, California, expanding the reach of Nucor s sheet mill group to the west coast of the United States. Structural mills - Nucor operates two structural mills that produce wide-flange steel beams, pilings and heavy structural steel products for fabricators, construction companies, manufacturers and steel service centers. Nucor owns a 51% interest in Nucor-Yamato Steel Company (Limited Partnership) ( Nucor-Yamato ) located in Blytheville, Arkansas. Nucor-Yamato is the only North American producer of high-strength, low-alloy beams. Common applications for the high-strength, low-alloy beams include gravity columns for high-rise buildings, long-span trusses for stadiums and convention centers, and for all projects where seismic design is a critical factor. The benefits of high strength, low alloy beams are increasingly recognized by Nucor s customers in the construction sector. These include savings in terms of construction time, weight, space, and overall environmental impact. Nucor sells its high-strength, low alloy beams under the trade name AEOS TM . Nucor also owns a steel beam mill in Berkeley County, South Carolina. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of structural products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the two structural mills is estimated at approximately 3,250,000 tons per year. Both mills use a special continuous casting method that produces a beam blank closer in shape to that of the finished beam than traditional methods. Structural steel products come in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers expected orders. Plate mills - Nucor operates three plate mills that produce plate for manufacturers of barges, bridges, heavy equipment, rail cars, refinery tanks, ships, wind towers and other items. Our products are further used in the pipe and tube, pressure vessel, transportation and construction industries. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of plate products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the plate mills is estimated at approximately 2,925,000 tons per year. Nucor is currently constructing a state-of-the-art plate mill in Brandenburg, Kentucky with an anticipated start-up date of late 2022. Plate steel products come in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers expected orders. Steel joint ventures - Nucor owns 50% interests in a North American sheet steel processing joint venture and a galvanized sheet steel plant in Mexico. Nucor owns a 50% economic and voting interest in NuMit, a company that owns 100% of the equity interest in Steel Technologies LLC ( Steel Technologies ), an operator of 30 strategically located sheet processing facilities in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Steel Technologies transforms flat-rolled steel into products that meet the exact specifications for customers in a wide range of industries, including the automotive, agricultural and consumer goods markets. 3 Nucor owns a 50% economic and voting interest in Nucor-JFE, a joint venture with JFE Steel Corporation ( JFE ) of Japan that operates a galvanized sheet steel plant in central Mexico that is expected to suppl y the country s automotive market with an a nnual capacity of approximately 400,000 tons. Steel products segment In the steel products segment, Nucor produces hollow structural section ( HSS ) steel tubing, electrical conduit, steel racking, steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete reinforcing steel, cold finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, insulated metal panels, steel grating and expanded metal, and wire and wire mesh. The steel products segment also includes our piling distributor. These products are sold primarily for use in nonresidential construction applications. Tubular Products The Nucor Tubular Products ( NTP ) group has eight tubular facilities that are strategically located in close proximity to Nucor s sheet mills as they are a consumer of hot-rolled coil. The NTP group produces HSS steel tubing, mechanical steel tubing, galvanized solar torque tube, piling, sprinkler pipe, heat-treated tubing and electrical conduit. HSS steel tubing, mechanical steel tubing and sprinkler pipe are used in structural and mechanical applications, including nonresidential construction, infrastructure, agricultural, automotive and construction equipment end-use markets. Heat-treated tubing and electrical conduit are primarily used to protect and route electrical wiring in various nonresidential structures such as hospitals, schools, office buildings, hotels, stadiums and shopping malls. Solar torque tube is an essential component for ground-mount solar systems. In August 2021, Nucor acquired Hannibal Industries, Inc. (Hannibal), a leading national provider of steel racking solutions. Total annual NTP capacity is approximately 1,500,000 tons. In March 2021, Nucor announced that it expects to build a new tube mill on the site of its Kentucky sheet mill. Rebar fabrication - Harris Steel ( Harris ) fabricates, installs and distributes rebar for a wide variety of construction work classified as infrastructure (e.g., highways, bridges, reservoirs, utilities and airports) and various building projects, including hospitals, schools, stadiums, commercial office buildings and multi-tenant residential construction. We sell and install fabricated reinforcing products primarily on a construction contract bid basis. Reinforcing products are essential to concrete construction. They supply tensile strength, as well as additional compressive strength, and protect the concrete from cracking. In many markets, Harris sells reinforcing products on an installed basis (i.e., Harris fabricates the reinforcing products for a specific application and performs the installation). Harris operates nearly 70 fabrication facilities across the United States and Canada, with each facility serving a local market. Total annual rebar fabrication capacity is approximately 1,686,000 tons. Vulcraft/Verco The Vulcraft/Verco group is the nation s largest producer and leading innovator of open-web steel joists, joist girders and steel decking, which are used primarily for nonresidential building construction. Steel joists and joist girders are produced and marketed throughout the United States by seven domestic Vulcraft facilities. The Vulcraft/Verco group s steel decking is produced and marketed throughout the United States by nine domestic plants. Six of these plants are adjacent to Vulcraft joist facilities. The Vulcraft/Verco group also has two plants in Canada, one in Eastern Canada and one in Western Canada, that produce both joist and deck. The annual joist production capacity is approximately 745,000 tons and the annual deck production capacity is approximately 560,000 tons. 4 Sales of steel joists, joist girders and steel decking are dependent on the nonresidential building construction market. The majority of steel joists, joist girders and steel decking are used extensively as part of the roof and floor structural support systems in warehouses, data centers, manufacturing buildings, retail stores, shopping centers, schools, hospitals , and, to a lesser extent, in multi-story buildings and apartments. We make these products to the customers specifications and do not sell these finished steel products out of inventory . The majority of these contracts are firm, fixed-price contracts that are , in most cases , competitively bid against other suppliers. Piling products - Skyline Steel LLC and its subsidiaries ( Skyline ) are primarily a steel foundation distributor serving the North American market. Skyline distributes products to service marine construction, bridge and highway construction, heavy civil construction, storm protection, underground commercial parking and environmental containment projects in the infrastructure and construction industries. Skyline also manufactures a complete line of geostructural foundation solutions, including threaded bar, micropile, strand anchors and hollow bar. It also processes and fabricates spiral weld pipe piling, rolled and welded pipe piling, cold-formed sheet piling and threaded bar. Cold finish - Nucor Cold Finish ( NCF ) is the largest and most diversified producer of cold finished bar products for a wide range of industrial markets in North America, with assets in Canada, Mexico and throughout the United States. The total capacity of the Nucor cold finished bar and wire facilities exceeds approximately 1,069,000 tons per year. Nucor s cold finished facilities are among the most modern in the world, producing cold finished bars for the most demanding applications. NCF obtains most of its steel from the Nucor bar mills, ensuring consistent quality and supply through all market conditions. These facilities produce cold-drawn, turned, ground and polished steel bars that are used extensively for shafting and other precision machined applications. NCF produces rounds, hexagons, flats and squares in carbon, alloy and leaded steels. These bars are purchased by the appliance, automotive, construction equipment, electric motor, farm machinery and fluid power industries, as well as by service centers. NCF bars are used in tens of thousands of products. A few examples include anchor bolts, hydraulic cylinders and shafting for air conditioner compressors, ceiling fan motors, garage door openers, electric motors and lawn mowers. Nucor owns a fully integrated precision castings company, Corporacion POK, S.A. de C.V. ( POK ), with a facility in Guadalajara, Mexico. POK produces complex castings and precision machined products used by the oil and gas, mining and sugar processing industries. POK produces a wide array of precision castings using steel, bronze, iron and specialty exotic alloys. POK complements NCF s businesses and Nucor s cold finish facility in Monterrey. Buildings group Nucor produces metal buildings and components throughout the United States under the following brands: Nucor Building Systems, American Buildings Company, Kirby Building Systems and CBC Steel Buildings. In total, the Nucor Buildings group currently has an annual capacity of approximately 360,000 tons. The sizes of the buildings that can be produced range from less than 1,000 square feet to more than 1,000,000 square feet. Complete metal building packages can be customized and combined with other materials such as glass, wood and masonry to produce cost-effective, energy efficient, aesthetically pleasing buildings designed to the customers special requirements. The buildings are sold primarily through independent builder distribution networks in order to provide fast-track, customized solutions for building owners. The primary markets served are commercial, industrial and institutional buildings, including distribution centers, data centers, automobile dealerships, retail centers, schools and manufacturing facilities. 5 Insulated Metal Panels In August 2021, Nucor purchased the assets of the insulated metal panels business ( IMP ) of Cornerstone Building Brands, Inc . ( Cornerstone ) , which is comprised of two industry leading brands, CENTRIA and Metl -Span. This acquisition , combined with Nucor s existing IMP business, TrueCore , LLC ( TrueCore ) , form the Nucor Insulated Panel G roup. The Nucor Insulated Panel g roup has nine manufacturing locations and has an annual capacity of approximately 92,000 tons. Steel mesh, grating and fasteners Nucor manufactures wire products, grating and industrial fasteners. Nucor produces mesh at Nucor Steel Connecticut, Inc. and Nucor Wire Products Utah. Nucor also produces mesh in Canada at the Harris operations of Laurel Steel. The combined annual production capacity of the steel mesh facilities is approximately 128,000 tons. Our grating business manufactures and fabricates steel and aluminum bar grating products at facilities located in North America and serves the new construction and maintenance-related markets. The annual production capacity for our grating business is approximately 46,500 tons. Nucor Fastener s bolt-making facility in Indiana produces carbon and alloy steel hex head cap screws, hex bolts, structural bolts, nuts and washers, finished hex nuts and custom-engineered fasteners. Nucor fasteners are used in a broad range of markets, including automotive, machine tool, farm implement, construction and military applications. The annual production capacity of this facility is approximately 75,000 tons. Raw materials segment In the raw materials segment, Nucor produces DRI brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI supplies ferro-alloys and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal. The raw materials segment also includes our natural gas drilling operations. Nucor s raw materials investments are focused on creating an advantage for its steelmaking operations, through a global information network and a multi-pronged and flexible approach to metallics supply. Scrap recycling and brokerage operations - DJJ operates six regional scrap recycling companies across the United States that together have shredders capable of processing approximately 5,478,000 tons of ferrous scrap annually. DJJ s scrap recycling operations use industry-leading expertise and technology to maximize metal recovery and minimize waste. DJJ also operates 12 self-serve used auto parts stores called U Pull- -Pay that complement its recycling operations. DJJ is the leading broker of ferrous scrap in North America and is a global trader of scrap metal, pig iron and other metallics. In addition to sourcing steel scrap for Nucor s mills, DJJ is a global trader of ferro-alloys and nonferrous metals. DJJ s logistics team owns and operates one of the largest independent fleets of railcars in the United States dedicated to the movement of scrap and steel and also offers railcar leasing and railcar fleet management services. These activities have strategic value to Nucor as the leading and most diversified North American steel producer. 6 Our primary external customers for ferrous scrap are EAF steel mills and foundries that use ferrous scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process. External customers purchasing nonferrous scrap metal include aluminum can producers, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills , and other processors and consumers of various nonferrous metals. We market scrap metal products and related services to our external customers through in-house sales forces. In 2021 , approximately 9 % of the ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitute tons we brokered and processed were sold to external customers. We consumed the balance in our steel mills. Direct reduced iron operations - DRI is a substitute material for high-quality grades of scrap and pig iron. Nucor operates two DRI plants with a combined annual capacity of approximately 4,500,000 metric tons of material with world-class metallization rates and carbon content. Nucor s wholly owned subsidiary, Nu-Iron Unlimited, is in Trinidad and benefits from a low-cost supply of natural gas and favorable logistics for inbound iron ore and shipment of DRI to the United States. Nucor s second DRI plant in Louisiana also benefits from favorable logistics and proximity to its steel mill customers. Nucor s DRI production and brokering capabilities provide our steel mills flexibility to quickly adjust their metallic input mix to changing market conditions, enabling them to maintain cost competitiveness in the often-volatile ferrous scrap market. With the potential for high-quality scrap to become scarcer, coupled with the risk of third-party supplier disruptions, Nucor s DRI facilities provide a greater degree of certainty over metallics supply to its steel mills. Natural gas drilling programs - Nucor owns leasehold interests in natural gas properties in the Piceance Basin in the Western Slope of Colorado. Nucor s access to a long-term, low-cost supply of natural gas is a component in the execution of Nucor s raw material strategy. Natural gas produced by Nucor s drilling operations is being sold to third parties to partially offset our exposure to changes in the price of natural gas consumed by our DRI plant in Louisiana and our steel mills in the United States. Universal Industrial Gases (UIG) Nucor acquired UIG in 2019 so that we would have the capability to build and operate our own air separation units ( ASU ) to serve our steel mills, providing us with an alternative to long term service contracts with outside providers. Where economies of scale and regional market conditions warrant, we can also sell excess output from these plants on a merchant basis. We have one ASU in operation at our plate mill in Hertford County, North Carolina and three additional stand-alone facilities that are currently operating. Three more facilities are currently under construction at Nucor facilities. Customers and Markets We have a diverse customer base and are not dependent on any single customer. Our largest single customer in 2021 represented approximately 5% of sales and consistently pays within terms. Our steel mills use a significant portion of the products of the raw materials segment. We believe that nonresidential construction is the largest end-use market that we serve. Products from our steel mills and steel products segment are used in a variety of nonresidential construction applications (e.g., commercial, industrial, infrastructure). In recent years we have come to see our EAF-based steelmaking method, with its lower greenhouse gas ( GHG ) intensity when compared with blast furnace technology, as a competitive advantage for reasons beyond its flexible, highly variable cost base. Many of our customers are expressing greater concern for the GHG emissions in their supply chains and are prioritizing sourcing their steel requirements from EAF-based steelmakers for incorporation into their projects and products. We have developed branded product lines to leverage this, and other advantages conferred by our specialized capabilities. 7 Our AEOS TM line of high strength, low alloy steel beams is one such example. AEOS TM s benefits are increasingly recognized by Nucor s customers in the construction sector. These include savings in terms of construction time, weight, space and overall environmental impact. Our ECONIQ TM line of net zero carbon steel is another example. We launched ECONIQ TM during 2021 and have found strong interest from customers in both the automotive and construction end-use markets. These are the two largest end-use markets for steel in the United States. We have also invested in people and processes to organize more of our commercial activities around large customers and end-use markets (e.g., automotive, construction, wind energy and solar energy). We have developed dedicated teams who are tasked with developing relationships and educating decision makers in these sectors. We believe this has resulted in earlier and more thoughtful consideration being given to steel-based solutions from Nucor, and a better appreciation for some our unique products and capabilities, such as AEOS TM and ECONIQ TM . General Development of Our Business in Recent Years Nucor has invested significant capital in recent years to expand our product portfolio to include more value-added steel mill products and capabilities, improve our cost structure, enhance our operational flexibility and increase our exposure to markets with attractive growth prospects such as datacenters, warehouses and renewable energy. These investments totaled approximately $6.34 billion over the last three years, with approximately 75% going to capital expenditures and the remainder going to acquisitions. We believe that these investments will help us deliver profitable long-term growth. Further, we believe shifting our product mix to a greater proportion of value-added products will make us less susceptible to being negatively impacted by imports. Nucor has several new capital projects and an acquisition of majority ownership position a joint venture in the steel mills segment that support our expansion of value-added product offerings and cost-reduction strategies. Nucor has completed construction of a new $325 million third generation flexible galvanizing line with an annual capacity of approximately 500,000 tons at our Nucor Steel Arkansas facility. We believe this project, combined with Nucor Steel Arkansas specialty cold mill that has been in operation for more than two years, uniquely positions Nucor among North American EAF steelmakers to provide the high-strength, light-weight steels that are increasingly in demand from the automotive and other sectors. Nucor has completed construction of its approximately $650 million investment to modernize and expand the production capability at its Gallatin flat-rolled sheet mill located in Ghent, Kentucky. The project is expected to begin start-up in the first quarter of 2022 and will increase the production capability of the mill from approximately 1,400,000 tons to approximately 3,000,000 tons annually once fully online. This project gives the Gallatin mill new, thicker slab casting and wider coil capabilities, expanding our product portfolio into markets currently served by higher-cost competitors. Construction continues on our $1.70 billion state-of-the-art plate mill in Brandenburg, Kentucky on the Ohio river. We expect that the new plate mill will begin production in the fourth quarter of 2022. The mill will be capable of producing approximately 1,200,000 tons per year of steel plate products. With the capability to manufacture nearly all the different types of plate products consumed in the United States, we believe this mill will position Nucor as the supplier of choice in the domestic plate market. We expect domestic demand for steel plate to grow in the coming years as offshore wind farms are permitted and developed with increasing frequency. Steel pla