Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Information About Our Executive Officers 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 79 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 79 Item 9B. Other Information 79 PART III ` Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 80 Item 11. Executive Compensation 80 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 80 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 84 SIGNATURES 85 i Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Nucor Corporation, a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1958, and its affiliates ( Nucor, the Company, we, us or our ) manufacture steel and steel products. The Company also produces direct reduced iron ( DRI ) for use in its steel mills. Through The David J. Joseph Company and its affiliates ( DJJ ), the Company also processes ferrous and nonferrous metals and brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron ( HBI ) and DRI. Most of the Company s operating facilities and customers are located in North America. The Company s operations include international trading and sales companies that buy and sell steel and steel products manufactured by the Company and others. Nucor is North America s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary raw material in producing steel and steel products. In 2019, we recycled approximately 17.8 million gross tons of scrap steel. Segments, Principle Products Produced, and Markets and Marketing Nucor reports its results in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. The steel mills segment is Nucor s largest segment, representing 62% of the Company s sales to external customers in the year ended December 31, 2019. We market products from the steel mills and steel products segments mainly through in-house sales forces. We also utilize our internal distribution and trading companies to market our products abroad. The markets for these products are largely tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in general economic conditions. We are a leading domestic provider for most of the products we supply, and, in many cases (e.g., structural steel, merchant bar steel, steel joist and deck, pre-engineered metal buildings, steel piling and cold finish bar steel), we are the leading supplier. Steel mills segment In the steel mills segment, Nucor produces sheet steel (hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized), plate steel, structural steel (wide-flange beams, beam blanks, H-piling and sheet piling) and bar steel (blooms, billets, concrete reinforcing bar, merchant bar and engineered special bar quality [ SBQ ]). Nucor manufactures steel principally from scrap steel and scrap steel substitutes using electric arc furnaces ( EAFs ), continuous casting and automated rolling mills. The steel mills segment also includes Nucor s equity method investments in Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l. ( Duferdofin Nucor ), NuMit LLC ( NuMit ) and Nucor-JFE Steel Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. ( Nucor-JFE ), as well as international trading and distribution companies that buy and sell steel manufactured by the Company and other steel producers. The steel mills segment sells its products primarily to steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. The steel mills segment sold approximately 18,585,000 tons to outside customers in 2019. 1 Table of Contents The following chart shows our outside steel shipments by end market: In 2019, 80% of the shipments made by our steel mills segment were to external customers. The remaining 20% of the steel mills segment s shipments went to our tubular products, piling distributor, joist, deck, rebar fabrication, fastener, metal buildings and cold finish operations. Bar mills - Nucor has 15 bar mills strategically located across the United States that manufacture a broad range of steel products, including concrete reinforcing bars, hot-rolled bars, rounds, light shapes, structural angles, channels, wire rod and highway products in carbon and alloy steels. Four of the bar mills have a significant focus on manufacturing SBQ and wire rod products. The newest mills in the group are our rebar micro mills in Sedalia, Missouri and Frostproof, Florida. The mill in Missouri will come online in early 2020, while the Florida mill is expected to come online in the fourth quarter of 2020. Steel produced by our bar mills has a wide usage serving end markets, including the agricultural, automotive, construction, energy, furniture, machinery, metal building, railroad, recreational equipment, shipbuilding, heavy truck and trailer market segments. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of bar products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the bar mills is currently estimated at approximately 8,830,000 tons per year. Reinforcing and merchant bar steel are sold in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers expected orders. Our SBQ products are hot-rolled to exacting specifications primarily servicing the automotive, energy, agricultural, heavy equipment and transportation sectors. Sheet mills - Nucor operates five strategically located sheet mills that utilize thin slab casters to produce flat-rolled steel for automotive, appliance, construction, pipe and tube and many other industrial and consumer applications. Nucor also has Castrip sheet production facilities in Crawfordsville, Indiana and Blytheville, Arkansas. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of flat-rolled products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the sheet mills is estimated at approximately 12,100,000 tons per year. All of our sheet mills are equipped with galvanizing lines and four of them are equipped with cold rolling mills for the further processing of hot-rolled sheet. Nucor produces hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized sheet steel to customers specifications while maintaining some inventories to fulfill anticipated orders. Contract sales within the steel mills segment are most notable in our sheet operations, as it is common for contract sales to account for the majority of sheet sales in a given year. We estimate that approximately 75% of our sheet steel sales in 2019 were to contract customers. The balance of our sheet steel sales was made in the spot market at prevailing prices at the time of sale. The proportion of tons sold to contract customers at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including our consideration of current and future market conditions, our strategy to appropriately balance spot and contract tons in a manner to meet our customers requirements while considering the expected profitability, our desire to sustain a diversified customer base, and our end-use 2 Table of Contents customers perceptions about future market conditions. These sheet sales contracts are generally noncancellable agreements that incorporate monthly or quarterly price adjustments reflect ing changes in the current market-based indices and/or raw material cost , and typically have terms ranging from six to 12 months . Structural mills - Nucor operates two structural mills that produce wide-flange steel beams, pilings and heavy structural steel products for fabricators, construction companies, manufacturers and steel service centers. Nucor owns a 51% interest in Nucor-Yamato Steel Company (Limited Partnership) ( Nucor-Yamato ) located in Blytheville, Arkansas. Nucor-Yamato is the only North American producer of high-strength, low-alloy beams. Common applications for the high-strength, low-alloy beams include gravity columns for high-rise buildings, long span trusses for stadiums and convention centers, and for all projects where seismic design is a critical factor. Nucor also owns a steel beam mill in Berkeley County, South Carolina. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of structural products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the two structural mills is estimated at approximately 3,250,000 tons per year. Both mills use a special continuous casting method that produces a beam blank closer in shape to that of the finished beam than traditional methods. Structural steel products come in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers expected orders. Plate mills - Nucor operates three plate mills that produce plate for manufacturers of barges, bridges, heavy equipment, rail cars, refinery tanks, ships, wind towers and other items. Our products are further used in the pipe and tube, pressure vessel, transportation and construction industries. Considering Nucor s production capabilities and the mix of plate products generally produced and marketed, the capacity of the plate mills is estimated at approximately 2,925,000 tons per year. In January 2019, Nucor announced that it will build a state-of-the-art plate mill, to be located in Brandenburg, Kentucky. Nucor Steel Brandenburg will be located on the Ohio River and well placed to serve the U.S. midwest, which is the largest plate-consuming area in the United States. The new plate mill will enhance our ability to serve our customers and will produce cut-to-length, coiled, heat-treated and discrete plate in widths and thicknesses that are not currently offered by Nucor. With an expected investment of $1.70 billion, the mill is expected to have an annual capacity of approximately 1,200,000 tons and is expected to be completed in 2022. Plate steel products come in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers expected orders. Steel joint ventures - Nucor owns 50% interests in a North American sheet steel processing joint venture, an Italian steel mill joint venture and a galvanized sheet steel plant in Mexico. Nucor owns a 50% economic and voting interest in NuMit, a company that owns 100% of the equity interest in Steel Technologies LLC ( Steel Technologies ), an operator of 26 strategically located sheet processing facilities in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Steel Technologies transforms flat-rolled steel into products that meet the exact specifications for customers in a wide range of industries, including the automotive, agricultural and consumer goods markets. Nucor owns 50% of the stock of Duferdofin Nucor, which operates a melt shop and bloom/billet caster in Brescia, Italy, with an annual capacity of approximately 1,000,000 metric tons, including the capability to produce high-quality, value-added, semi-finished SBQ products. Duferdofin Nucor announced plans to construct a new rolling mill in Brescia, Italy, which will be supplied by its existing nearby EAF. The new mill will be designed to produce beams and other rolled products. The plant will consume energy from renewable sources through a long-term Power Purchase Agreement. With the new plant, the entire Duferdofin Nucor production system will produce over 1,000,000 tons of rolled products. Nucor owns 50% of Nucor-JFE, a joint venture with JFE Steel Corporation of Japan that operates a galvanized sheet steel plant in central Mexico that will supply the country s automotive market with an annual capacity of approximately 400,000 tons. 3 Table of Contents Steel products segment In the steel products segment, Nucor produces hollow structural section ( HSS ) steel tubing, electrical conduit, steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete reinforcing steel, cold finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, steel grating and expanded metal, and wire and wire mesh. The steel products segment also includes our piling distributor. These products are sold primarily for use in nonresidential construction applications. Tubular Products The Nucor Tubular Products ( NTP ) group has eight tubular facilities that are strategically located in close proximity to Nucor s sheet mills as they are a consumer of hot-rolled coil. The NTP group produces HSS steel tubing, mechanical steel tubing, piling, sprinkler pipe, heat-treated tubing and electrical conduit. HSS steel tubing, mechanical steel tubing and sprinkler pipe are used in structural and mechanical applications, including nonresidential construction, infrastructure, agricultural, automotive and construction equipment end-use markets. Heat-treated tubing and electrical conduit are primarily used to protect and route electrical wiring in various nonresidential structures such as hospitals, schools, office buildings, hotels, stadiums and shopping malls. Total annual NTP capacity is approximately 1,365,000 tons. Rebar fabrication - Harris Steel ( Harris ) fabricates, installs and distributes rebar for a wide variety of construction work classified as infrastructure (e.g., highways, bridges, reservoirs, utilities and airports) and various building projects, including hospitals, schools, stadiums, commercial office building and multi-tenant residential construction. We sell and install fabricated reinforcing products primarily on a construction contract bid basis. Reinforcing products are essential to concrete construction. They supply tensile strength, as well as additional compressive strength, and protect the concrete from cracking. In many markets, Harris sells reinforcing products on an installed basis (i.e., Harris fabricates the reinforcing products for a specific application and performs the installation). Harris operates nearly 70 fabrication facilities across the United States and Canada, with each facility serving a local market. Total annual rebar fabrication capacity is approximately 1,650,000 tons. Vulcraft/Verco The Vulcraft/Verco group is the nation s largest producer and leading innovator of open-web steel joists, joist girders and steel deck, which are used primarily for nonresidential building construction. Steel joists and joist girders are produced and marketed throughout the United States by seven domestic Vulcraft facilities. The Vulcraft/Verco group s steel decking is produced and marketed throughout the United States by nine domestic plants. Six of these plants are adjacent to Vulcraft joist facilities. The Vulcraft/Verco group also has two plants in Canada, one in Eastern Canada and one in Western Canada, that produce both joist and deck. The annual joist production capacity is approximately 745,000 tons and the annual deck production capacity is approximately 560,000 tons. Sales of steel joists, joist girders and steel decking are dependent on the nonresidential building construction market. The majority of steel joists, joist girders and steel decking are used extensively as part of the roof and floor structural support systems in manufacturing buildings, retail stores, shopping centers, warehouses, schools, hospitals and, to a lesser extent, in multi-story buildings and apartments. We make these products to the customers specifications and do not sell these finished steel products out of inventory. The majority of these contracts are firm, fixed-price contracts that are, in most cases, competitively bid against other suppliers. Longer-term supply contracts may or may not permit us to adjust our prices to reflect changes in prevailing raw material costs. Piling products - Skyline Steel LLC and its subsidiaries ( Skyline ) are primarily a steel foundation distributor serving the North American market. Skyline distributes products to service marine construction, bridge and highway construction, heavy civil construction, storm protection, underground commercial parking and environmental containment projects in the infrastructure and construction industries. Skyline also manufactures a complete line of geostructural foundation solutions, including threaded bar, micropile, strand anchors and hollow bar. It also 4 Table of Contents processes and fabricates spiral weld pipe piling, rolled and welded pipe piling, cold-formed sheet piling and threaded bar. Cold finish - Nucor Cold Finish ( NCF ) is the largest and most diversified producer of cold finished bar products for a wide range of industrial markets in North America, with assets in Canada, Mexico and throughout the United States. The total capacity of the Nucor cold finished bar and wire facilities now exceeds approximately 1,065,000 tons per year. Nucor s cold finished facilities are among the most modern in the world, producing cold finished bars for the most demanding applications. NCF obtains most of its steel from the Nucor bar mills, ensuring consistent quality and supply through all market conditions. These facilities produce cold-drawn, turned, ground and polished steel bars that are used extensively for shafting and other precision machined applications. NCF produces rounds, hexagons, flats and squares in carbon, alloy and leaded steels. These bars are purchased by the appliance, automotive, construction equipment, electric motor, farm machinery and fluid power industries, as well as by service centers. NCF bars are used in tens of thousands of products. A few examples include anchor bolts, hydraulic cylinders and shafting for air conditioner compressors, ceiling fan motors, garage door openers, electric motors and lawn mowers. In late 2018, Nucor acquired a fully integrated precision castings company, Corporacion POK, S.A. de C.V. ( POK ), with a facility in Guadalajara, Mexico. POK produces complex castings and precision machined products used by the oil and gas, mining and sugar processing industries. POK produces a wide array of precision castings using steel, bronze, iron and specialty exotic alloys. POK complements NCF s businesses and Nucor s cold finish facility in Monterrey. Buildings group Nucor produces metal buildings and components throughout the United States under the following brands: Nucor Building Systems, American Buildings Company, Kirby Building Systems and CBC Steel Buildings. In total, the Nucor Buildings Group currently has nine metal buildings plants with an annual capacity of approximately 360,000 tons, as well as an insulated metal panels company in Laurens, South Carolina which are utilized in metal buildings made by the Nucor Buildings Group as well as other applications. The sizes of the buildings that can be produced range from less than 1,000 square feet to more than 1,000,000 square feet. Complete metal building packages can be customized and combined with other materials such as glass, wood and masonry to produce cost-effective, energy efficient, aesthetically pleasing buildings designed to the customers special requirements. The buildings are sold primarily through independent builder distribution networks in order to provide fast-track, customized solutions for building owners. The primary markets served are commercial, industrial and institutional buildings, including distribution centers, data centers, automobile dealerships, retail centers, schools and manufacturing facilities. Steel mesh, grating and fasteners - Nucor manufactures wire products, grating and industrial fasteners. Nucor produces mesh at Nucor Steel Connecticut, Inc. and Nucor Wire Products Utah. Nucor also produces mesh in Canada at the Harris operations of Laurel and Laurel-LEC. The combined annual production capacity of the steel mesh facilities is approximately 128,000 tons. Our grating business, which operates under the brand names Nucor Grating in the United States and Fisher Ludlow in Canada, manufactures and fabricates steel and aluminum bar grating products at facilities located in North America. Nucor Grating and Fisher Ludlow serve the new construction and maintenance-related markets. The annual production capacity for our grating business is approximately 120,000 tons. Nucor Fastener s bolt-making facility in Indiana produces carbon and alloy steel hex head cap screws, hex bolts, structural bolts, nuts and washers, finished hex nuts and custom-engineered fasteners. Nucor fasteners are used in a broad range of markets, including demanding automotive, machine tool, farm implement, construction and military applications. The annual production capacity of this facility is approximately 75,000 tons. 5 Table of Contents Raw materials segment In the raw materials segment, Nucor produces DRI brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI supplies ferro-alloys and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal. The raw materials segment also includes our natural gas drilling operations. Nucor s raw materials investments are focused on creating an advantage for its steelmaking operations, through a global information network and a multi-pronged and flexible approach to metallics supply. Scrap recycling and brokerage operations - DJJ operates six regional scrap recycling companies across the United States that together have shredders capable of processing approximately 5,000,000 tons of ferrous scrap annually. DJJ s scrap recycling operations use industry-leading expertise and technology to maximize metal recovery and minimize waste. DJJ also operates 11 self-serve used auto parts stores called U Pull- -Pay that complement its recycling operations. DJJ is the leading broker of ferrous scrap in North America and is a global trader of scrap metal, pig iron and other metallics. In addition to sourcing steel scrap for Nucor s mills, DJJ is a global trader of ferro-alloys and nonferrous metals. DJJ s logistics team owns and operates one of the largest independent fleets of railcars in the United States dedicated to the movement of scrap and steel and also offers railcar leasing and railcar fleet management services. These activities have strategic value to Nucor as the leading and most diversified North American steel producer. Our primary external customers for ferrous scrap are EAF steel mills and foundries that use ferrous scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process. External customers purchasing nonferrous scrap metal include aluminum can producers, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills, and other processors and consumers of various nonferrous metals. We market scrap metal products and related services to our external customers through in-house sales forces. In 2019, approximately 10% of the ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitute tons we processed were sold to external customers. We consumed the balance in our steel mills. Direct reduced iron operations - DRI is a substitute material for high-quality grades of scrap and pig iron. Nucor operates two DRI plants with a combined annual capacity of approximately 4,500,000 metric tons of material with world-class metallization rates and carbon content. Nucor s wholly-owned subsidiary, Nu-Iron Unlimited, is in Trinidad and benefits from a low-cost supply of natural gas and favorable logistics for inbound iron ore and shipment of DRI to the United States. Nucor s second DRI plant in Louisiana ( Nucor Steel Louisiana ) also benefits from favorable logistics and proximity to its steel mill customers. Nucor s DRI production capabilities provide our steel mills flexibility to quickly adjust the metallic mix to changing market conditions and to maintain competitiveness in the sometimes-volatile scrap market. With the potential for high-quality scrap becoming scarcer, coupled with the risk of third-party supplier disruptions, Nucor s DRI facilities provide a greater degree of certainty over its metallics supply. In early 2018, teammates at our Nucor Steel Louisiana facility began implementation of a three-pronged strategy to increase the plant's reliability and uptime called Project 8000. The plan focuses on achieving improvements in people, process and equipment. The Louisiana DRI facility established new annual records for plant uptime, production and shipments in 2018 as improvements related to people and processes were implemented. In 2019, the critical work of replacing the convection section of our process gas heater as well as relining the reactor refractory was completed during a planned 70-day outage that began in early-September and ended in mid-November. Despite this outage, 2019 was the second-best year for uptime and output at Nucor Steel Louisiana, since its startup in 2013. We expect these projects will further improve the plant s reliability. Natural gas drilling programs - Nucor owns leasehold interests in natural gas properties in the Piceance Basin in the Western Slope of Colorado. Nucor s access to a long-term, low-cost supply of natural gas is an important component in the execution of Nucor s raw material strategy. Natural gas produced by Nucor s drilling operations 6 Table of Contents is being sold to third parties to offset our exposure to changes in the price of natural gas consumed by our DRI plant in Louisiana and our steel mills in the United States. Customers A significant portion of our steel mills and steel products segments sales are into the commercial, industrial and municipal construction markets. Our largest single customer in 2019 represented approximately 5% of sales and consistently pays within terms. Our steel mills use a significant portion of the products of the raw materials segment. General Development of Our Business in Recent Years Nucor has invested significant capital in recent years to expand our product portfolio to include more value-added steel mill products, improve our cost structure, enhance our operational flexibility and provide additional channels to market for our products. These investments totaled approximately $3.68 billion over the last three years, with approximately 80% going to capital expenditures and the remaining going to acquisitions. We believe that our focus on lowering costs and diversifying our operations will enable us to execute on our strategy of delivering profitable long-term growth. Further, we believe shifting our product mix to a greater proportion of value-added products and increasing end-use market diversity will make us less susceptible to imports. New capital projects that align with our expansion of value-added product offerings and cost-reduction strategies were completed in 2019. At our sheet mill located in Ghent, Kentucky, Nucor s approximately $200 million investment in a new hot band galvanizing and pickling line ramped up production in late 2019 and is shipping products to customers. We believe the new galvanizing line is the widest hot-rolled galvanizing line in North America with its 72-inch product, creating synergies with Nucor s other sheet mills and allowing us to enter new automotive market segments. Our Nucor Steel Arkansas facility built an additional specialty cold mill for approximately $245 million that began start up in 2019. That cold mill facility expands our ability to produce advanced, high-strength low-alloy steel and motor lamination steel products. We have several growth initiatives underway in our bar mill group that will enhance our position as a low-cost producer of bar. Nucor s rebar micro mill near Kansas City in Sedalia, Missouri is capable of producing approximately 380,000 tons annually and was completed at a cost of approximately $245 million. We believe that positioning the micro mill near the Kansas City market will provide us with a freight cost advantage relative to more distant suppliers, and we will also benefit from the scrap supply in the immediate area provided by our existing DJJ operations. The new mill went into startup in early 2020. Nucor Steel Kankakee, Inc. is building a full-range merchant bar quality mill with approximately 500,000 tons of annual capacity at our existing mill in Bourbonnais, Illinois at an estimated cost of $185 million. Like the new micro mill, we believe that the Kankakee mill will also benefit from logistical advantages and low-cost scrap supply. We expect this project to begin startup in the second quarter of 2020. In March 2018, Nucor announced that it would build a second rebar micro mill capable of producing approximately 380,000 tons annually in Frostproof, Florida. Similar to the mill in Sedalia, Missouri, we believe this new micro mill will benefit from the scrap supply in the immediate area provided by our existing DJJ operations as well as strong regional demand for its products. This approximately $240 million investment is expected to be operational in the second half of 2020. In May 2018, Nucor announced an approximately $275 million investment to construct a new 3 rd generation flexible galvanizing line with an annual capacity of approximately 500,000 tons at our Nucor Steel Arkansas facility. This project complements the previously mentioned specialty cold mill recently started up at the facility and we believe it will accelerate our goal of increasing our automotive market share. The new galvanizing line is expected to be operational in mid-2021. In September 2018, Nucor announced an approximately $650 million investment to modernize and expand the production capability at its Gallatin flat-rolled sheet mill located in Ghent, Kentucky. This investment will increase the production capability from approximately 1,600,000 tons to approximately 3,000,000 tons annually and will i