Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 1C Cybersecurity 31 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 P art II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. [Reserved] 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B. Other Information 45 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 45 P art III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 45 Item 11. Executive Compensation 46 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 46 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 46 P art IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 47 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 83 Signatures 84 2 Table of Contents Where You Can Find More Information Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also use the following social media channels as a means of disclosing information about the company, our products, our planned financial and other announcements and attendance at upcoming investor and industry conferences, and other matters and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD: NVIDIA X Account (https://twitter.com/nvidia) NVIDIA Corporate Blog (http://blogs.nvidia.com) NVIDIA Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/nvidia) NVIDIA LinkedIn Page (http://www.linkedin.com/company/nvidia) NVIDIA Instagram Page (https://www.instagram.com/nvidia) In addition, investors and others can view NVIDIA videos on YouTube (https://www.YouTube.com/nvidia). The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these accounts and the blog, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These channels may be updated from time to time on NVIDIA's investor relations website. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, could, goal, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, project, predict, potential, and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties, and other factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks, uncertainties, and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All references to NVIDIA, we, us, our, or the Company mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. 2024 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. 3 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Our Company NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. NVIDIA is now a full-stack computing infrastructure company with data-center-scale offerings that are reshaping industry. Our full-stack includes the foundational CUDA programming model that runs on all NVIDIA GPUs, as well as hundreds of domain-specific software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, and Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs. This deep and broad software stack accelerates the performance and eases the deployment of NVIDIA accelerated computing for computationally intensive workloads such as artificial intelligence, or AI, model training and inference, data analytics, scientific computing, and 3D graphics, with vertical-specific optimizations to address industries ranging from healthcare and telecom to automotive and manufacturing. Our data-center-scale offerings are comprised of compute and networking solutions that can scale to tens of thousands of GPU-accelerated servers interconnected to function as a single giant computer; this type of data center architecture and scale is needed for the development and deployment of modern AI applications. The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential for deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in which software writes itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered AI solutions are being developed by thousands of enterprises to deliver services and products that would have been immensely difficult or even impossible with traditional coding. Examples include generative AI, which can create new content such as text, code, images, audio, video, and molecule structures, and recommendation systems, which can recommend highly relevant content such as products, services, media or ads using deep neural networks trained on vast datasets that capture the user preferences. NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software, algorithms, libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and networking and software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. The large and growing number of developers and installed base across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our platform to our customers. Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $45.3 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 sparked the growth of the PC gaming market and redefined computer graphics. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU to a broad range of compute-intensive applications, paving the way for the emergence of modern AI. In 2012, the AlexNet neural network, trained on NVIDIA GPUs, won the ImageNet computer image recognition competition, marking the Big Bang moment of AI. We introduced our first Tensor Core GPU in 2017, built from the ground-up for the new era of AI, and our first autonomous driving system-on-chips, or SoC, in 2018. Our acquisition of Mellanox in 2020 expanded our innovation canvas to include networking and led to the introduction of a new processor class the data processing unit, or DPU. Over the past 5 years, we have built full software stacks that run on top of our GPUs and CUDA to bring AI to the world s largest industries, including NVIDIA DRIVE stack for autonomous driving, Clara for healthcare, and Omniverse for industrial digitalization; and introduced the NVIDIA AI Enterprise software essentially an operating system for enterprise AI applications. In 2023, we introduced our first data center CPU, Grace, built for giant-scale AI and high-performance computing. With a strong engineering culture, we drive fast, yet harmonized, product and technology innovations in all dimensions of computing including silicon, systems, networking, software and algorithms. More than half of our engineers work on software. The world s leading cloud service providers, or CSPs, and consumer internet companies use our data center-scale accelerated computing platforms to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to billions of end users, including AI solutions and assistants, search, recommendations, social networking, online shopping, live video, and translation. Enterprises and startups across a broad range of industries use our accelerated computing platforms to build new generative AI-enabled products and services, or to dramatically accelerate and reduce the costs of their workloads and workflows. The enterprise software industry uses them for new AI assistants and chatbots; the transportation industry for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry for accelerated and computer-aided drug discovery; and the financial services industry for customer support and fraud detection. 4 Table of Contents Researchers and developers use our computing solutions to accelerate a wide range of important applications, from simulating molecular dynamics to climate forecasting. With support for more than 3,500 applications, NVIDIA computing enables some of the most promising areas of discovery, from climate prediction to materials science and from wind tunnel simulation to genomics. Including GPUs and networking, NVIDIA powers over 75% of the supercomputers on the global TOP500 list, including 24 of the top 30 systems on the Green500 list. Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual worlds. In addition to serving the growing number of gamers, the market for PC GPUs is expanding because of the burgeoning population of live streamers, broadcasters, artists, and creators. With the advent of generative AI, we expect a broader set of PC users to choose NVIDIA GPUs for running generative AI applications locally on their PC, which is critical for privacy, latency, and cost-sensitive AI applications. Professional artists, architects and designers use NVIDIA partner products accelerated with our GPUs and software platform for a range of creative and design use cases, such as creating visual effects in movies or designing buildings and products. In addition, generative AI is expanding the market for our workstation-class GPUs, as more enterprise customers develop and deploy AI applications with their data on-premises. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our Businesses We report our business results in two segments. The Compute Networking segment is comprised of our Data Center accelerated computing platforms and end-to-end networking platforms including Quantum for InfiniBand and Spectrum for Ethernet; our NVIDIA DRIVE automated-driving platform and automotive development agreements; Jetson robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other software; and DGX Cloud software and services. The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and related infrastructure; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual GPU, or vGPU, software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse Enterprise software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications. Our Markets We specialize in markets where our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. Data Center The NVIDIA Data Center platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific computing, delivering significantly better performance and power efficiency relative to conventional CPU-only approaches. It is deployed in cloud, hyperscale, on-premises and edge data centers. The platform consists of compute and networking offerings typically delivered to customers as systems, subsystems, or modules, along with software and services. Our compute offerings include supercomputing platforms and servers, bringing together our energy efficient GPUs, DPUs, interconnects, and fully optimized AI and high-performance computing, or HPC, software stacks. In addition, they include NVIDIA AI Enterprise software; our DGX Cloud service; and a growing body of acceleration libraries, APIs, SDKs, and domain-specific application frameworks. Our networking offerings include end-to-end platforms for InfiniBand and Ethernet, consisting of network adapters, cables, DPUs, and switch systems, as well as a full software stack. This has enabled us to architect data center-scale computing platforms that can interconnect thousands of compute nodes with high-performance networking. While historically the server was the unit of computing, as AI and HPC workloads have become extremely large spanning thousands of compute nodes, the data center has become the new unit of computing, with networking as an integral part. Our end customers include the world s leading public cloud and consumer internet companies, thousands of enterprises and startups, and public sector entities. We work with industry leaders to help build or transform their applications and data center infrastructure. Our direct customers include original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system integrators and distributors which we partner with to help bring our products to market. We also have partnerships in automotive, healthcare, financial services, manufacturing, and retail among others, to accelerate the adoption of AI. 5 Table of Contents At the foundation of the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform are our GPUs, which excel at parallel workloads such as the training and inferencing of neural networks. They are available in the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform and in industry standard servers from every major cloud provider and server maker. Beyond GPUs, our data center platform expanded to include DPUs in fiscal year 2022 and CPUs in fiscal year 2024. We can optimize across the entire computing, networking and storage stack to deliver data center-scale computing solutions. While our approach starts with powerful chips, what makes it a full-stack computing platform is our large body of software, including the CUDA parallel programming model, the CUDA-X collection of acceleration libraries, APIs, SDKs, and domain-specific application frameworks. In addition to software delivered to customers as an integral part of our data center computing platform, we offer paid licenses to NVIDIA AI Enterprise, a comprehensive suite of enterprise-grade AI software and NVIDIA vGPU software for graphics-rich virtual desktops and workstations. In fiscal year 2024, we launched the NVIDIA DGX Cloud, an AI-training-as-a-service platform which includes cloud-based infrastructure and software for AI, customizable pretrained AI models, and access to NVIDIA experts. We have partnered with leading cloud service providers to host this service in their data centers. Gaming Gaming is the largest entertainment industry, with PC gaming as the predominant platform. Many factors propel its growth, including new high production value games and franchises, the continued rise of competitive gaming, or eSports, social connectivity and the increasing popularity of game streamers, modders, or gamers who remaster games, and creators. Our gaming platforms leverage our GPUs and sophisticated software to enhance the gaming experience with smoother, higher quality graphics. We developed NVIDIA RTX to bring next generation graphics and AI to games. NVIDIA RTX features ray tracing technology for real-time, cinematic-quality rendering. Ray tracing, which has long been used for special effects in the movie industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical behavior of light to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes. NVIDIA RTX also features deep learning super sampling, or NVIDIA DLSS, our AI technology that boosts frame rates while generating beautiful, sharp images for games. RTX GPUs will also accelerate a new generation of AI applications. With an installed base of over 100 million AI capable PCs, more than 500 RTX AI-enabled applications and games, and a robust suite of development tools, RTX is already the AI PC leader. Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs for gaming desktop and laptop PCs, GeForce NOW cloud gaming for playing PC games on underpowered devices, as well as SoCs and development services for game consoles. Professional Visualization We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors, or ISVs, to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and manufacturing and digital content creation. Design and manufacturing encompass computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing, medical instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes professional video editing and post-production, special effects for films, and broadcast-television graphics. The NVIDIA RTX platform makes it possible to render film-quality, photorealistic objects and environments with physically accurate shadows, reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Many leading 3D design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software. We offer NVIDIA Omniverse as a development platform and operating system for building virtual world simulation applications, available as a software subscription for enterprise use and free for individual use. Industrial enterprises are adopting Omniverse s 3D and simulation technologies to digitalize their complex physical assets, processes, and environments building digital twins of factories, real time 3D product configurators, testing and validating autonomous robots and vehicles, powered by NVIDIA accelerated computing infrastructure on-premises and in the cloud. Automotive Automotive market is comprised of platform solutions for automated driving and in-vehicle cockpit computing. Leveraging our technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive relationships, we are delivering a complete end-to-end solution for the AV market under the DRIVE Hyperion brand. We have demonstrated multiple applications of AI within the car: AI can drive the car itself as a pilot in fully autonomous mode or it can also be a co-pilot, assisting the human driver while creating a safer driving experience. 6 Table of Contents We are working with several hundred partners in the automotive ecosystem including automakers, truck makers, tier-one suppliers, sensor manufacturers, automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, and startups to develop and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI computing architecture starts with training deep neural networks using our Data Center computing solutions, and then running a full perception, fusion, planning, and control stack within the vehicle on the NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform. DRIVE Hyperion consists of the high-performance, energy efficient DRIVE AGX computing hardware, a reference sensor set that supports full self-driving capability as well as an open, modular DRIVE software platform for autonomous driving, mapping, and parking services, and intelligent in-vehicle experiences. In addition, we offer a scalable data center-based simulation solution, NVIDIA DRIVE Sim, based on NVIDIA Omniverse software, for digital cockpit development, as well as for testing and validating a self-driving platform. Our unique end-to-end, software-defined approach is designed for continuous innovation and continuous development, enabling cars to receive over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life of a vehicle. Business Strategies NVIDIA s key strategies that shape our overall business approach include: Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform. Our accelerated computing platform can solve complex problems in significantly less time and with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches. Indeed, it can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We work to deliver continued performance leaps that outpace Moore s Law by leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system, interconnect, and software layers. This full-stack innovation approach allows us to deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to legacy approaches in our target markets, which include Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs, CUDA and networking technologies as the fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to make leveraged investments in research and development: we can support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach in each of our target markets. Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete, end-to-end accelerated computing platform for AI, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes full-stack data center-scale compute and networking solutions across processing units, interconnects, systems, and software. Our compute solutions include all three major processing units in AI servers GPUs, CPUs, and DPUs. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and we will continue to add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our leadership position. In addition, we offer DGX Cloud, an AI-training-as-a-service platform, and NeMo a complete solution for building enterprise-ready Large Language Models, or LLMs, using open source and proprietary LLMs created by NVIDIA and third parties. Our AI technology leadership is reinforced by our large and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our computing platforms are available from virtually every major server maker and CSP, as well as on our own AI supercomputers. There are over 4.7 million developers worldwide using CUDA and our other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target markets. We evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and thousands of startups through our Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to design, train, and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated computing platform. Extending our technology and platform leadership in computer graphics. We believe that computer graphics infused with AI is fundamental to the continued expansion and evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources to enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional visualization applications and create new virtual world and simulation capabilities. Our technologies are instrumental in driving the gaming, design, and creative industries forward, as developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized experience on our GeForce and NVIDIA RTX platforms. Our computer graphics platforms leverage AI end-to-end, from the developer tools and cloud services to the Tensor Cores included in all RTX-class GPUs. For example, NVIDIA Avatar Cloud Engine, or ACE, is a suite of technologies that help developers bring digital avatars to life with generative AI, running in the cloud or locally on the PC. GeForce Experience enhances each gamer s experience by optimizing their PC s settings, as well as enabling the recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a number of popular creative applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists, designers, and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design applications. We also enable interactive graphics applications - such as games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost any device, almost anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as vGPU for enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming. Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of autonomous vehicles, or AV, and electric vehicles, or EV, is revolutionizing the transportation industry. The algorithms required for autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will use multiple neural networks instead. In addition, EV makers are looking for next-generation centralized car computers that integrate a wide range of intelligent functions into a single AI compute platform. Therefore, we provide an AI-based hardware and software solution, designed and implemented from the ground up based on automotive safety standards, for the AV and EV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive OEMs, 7 Table of Contents tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-based hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation prior to any over-the-air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-end approach will enable the transportation industry to solve the complex problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving. Leveraging our intellectual property, or IP. We believe our IP is a valuable asset that can be accessed by our customers and partners through license and development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly into their own products or have us do so through a custom development. Such license and development arrangements can further enhance the reach of our technology. Sales and Marketing Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our high-performance and efficient computing platforms and software. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our global markets, work closely with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network. Our partner network incorporates global, regional and specialized CSPs, OEMs, ODMs, system integrators, independent software vendors, or ISVs, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, distributors, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, and other ecosystem participants. Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry knowledge. We also employ a team of application engineers and solution architects to provide pre-sales assistance to our partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying system designs that incorporate our platforms. For example, our solution architects work with CSPs to provide pre-sales assistance to optimize their hardware and software infrastructure for generative AI and LLM training and deployment. They also work with foundation model and enterprise software developers to optimize the training and fine-tuning of their models and services, and with enterprise end-users, often in collaboration with their global system integrator of choice, to fine-tune models and build AI applications. We believe that the depth and quality 