Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. (Reserved) 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 41 Item 9B. Other Information 41 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 42 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 42 Item 11. Executive Compensation 42 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 43 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 43 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 44 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 83 Signatures 84 2 Table of Contents WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also use the following social media channels as a means of disclosing information about the company, our products, our planned financial and other announcements and attendance at upcoming investor and industry conferences, and other matters and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD: NVIDIA Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/nvidia) NVIDIA Corporate Blog (http://blogs.nvidia.com) NVIDIA Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/nvidia) NVIDIA LinkedIn Page (http://www.linkedin.com/company/nvidia) NVIDIA Instagram Page (https://www.instagram.com/nvidia) In addition, investors and others can view NVIDIA videos on YouTube (https://www.YouTube.com/nvidia). The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these accounts and the blog, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These channels may be updated from time to time on NVIDIA's investor relations website. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, could, goal, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, project, predict, potential and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All references to NVIDIA, we, us, our or the Company mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K , and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. 2022 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Quadro, BlueField, CUDA, CUDA-X, GeForce Experience, GeForce GTX, GeForce NOW, GeForce RTX, Jetson, Mellanox, DOCA, NGC, NVIDIA AGX, NVIDIA DGX, NVIDIA DRIVE, NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation , NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion, NVIDIA EGX, NVIDIA HGX, NVIDIA Omniverse, NVIDIA RTX, Quadro RTX, SHIELD, and vGPU are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation and / or its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU architecture to create platforms for scientific computing, artificial intelligence, or AI, data science, autonomous vehicles, or AV, robotics, and augmented and virtual reality, or AR and VR. The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential to running deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in which software writes itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered deep learning is being adopted by thousands of enterprises to deliver services and products that would have been impossible with traditional coding. NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware and systems, software, algorithms and libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third party developers and partners. The large and growing number of developers across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our platform to our customers. Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $29 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader in computer graphics. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU for general purpose computing. This approach significantly accelerates the most demanding high-performance computing, or HPC, applications in fields such as aerospace, bio-science research, mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. Today, our GPUs and networking accelerate many of the fastest supercomputers across the world. In addition, the massively parallel compute architecture of our GPUs and associated software are well suited for deep learning and machine learning, powering the era of AI. While traditional CPU-based approaches no longer deliver advances on the pace described by Moore s Law, we deliver GPU performance improvements on a pace ahead of Moore s Law, giving the industry a path forward. Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual worlds. GPUs also help underpin the world s fastest growing spectator sport, eSports, which attracts hundreds of millions of viewers to watch top-quality gaming. In addition to serving the growing number of gamers, the market for gaming GPUs is expanding as a result of the burgeoning population of live streamers, broadcasters, artists and creators. Researchers use our GPUs to accelerate a wide range of important applications, from simulating molecular dynamics to climate forecasting. With support for more than 2,500 applications - including the top 15 HPC applications - NVIDIA GPUs enable some of the most promising areas of discovery, from climate prediction to materials science and from wind tunnel simulation to genomics. Including GPUs and networking, NVIDIA powers over 70%, and 8 of the top 10, supercomputers on the global TOP500 list. The world s leading cloud service providers and consumer internet companies use our GPUs to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to billions of end-users, including search, recommendations, social networking, online shopping, live video, translation, AI assistants, navigation, and cloud computing. A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups across a broad range of industries use our GPUs and AI software to bring automation to the products and services they build. The transportation industry is turning to our platforms for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry is leveraging them for enhanced medical imaging and accelerated drug discovery; and the financial services industry is using them for fraud detection. Professional designers use our GPUs and software to create visual effects in movies, and design buildings and products ranging from cell phones to commercial aircraft. 4 Table of Contents Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement On February 8, 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp., or SoftBank, announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm Limited, or Arm, from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate because of significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We intend to record in operating expenses a $1.36 billion charge in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing in September 2020. Our Businesses We report our business results in two segments. Our Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual GPU, or vGPU, software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse software for building 3D designs and virtual worlds. Our Compute Networking segment includes Data Center platforms and systems for AI, HPC, and accelerated computing; Mellanox networking and interconnect solutions; automotive AI Cockpit, autonomous driving development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; cryptocurrency mining processors, or CMP; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; and NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other software. Our Markets We specialize in markets in which our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Gaming, Data Center, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. Gaming Gaming is the largest entertainment industry, with PC gaming as the most predominant platform. Many factors propel computer gaming s growth, including new high production value games and franchises, the continued rise of competitive gaming or eSports, social connectivity and the demand for more content from game streamers, modders and creators. Our gaming platforms leverage our GPUs and sophisticated software to enhance the gaming experience with smoother, higher quality graphics. We developed NVIDIA RTX to bring next generation graphics and AI to games. NVIDIA RTX features ray tracing technology for real-time, cinematic-quality rendering. Ray tracing, which has long been used for special effects in the movie industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical behavior of light to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes. NVIDIA RTX also features deep learning super sampling, or NVIDIA DLSS, our AI technology that boosts frame rates while generating beautiful, sharp images for games. Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs for gaming desktop and laptop PCs, GeForce NOW cloud gaming for playing PC games on underpowered devices, SHIELD for high quality streaming on TV, as well as platforms and development services for specialized console gaming devices. Data Center The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data centers. The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA programming model, and a growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, which are both integrated and sold standalone, application frameworks and services. In the field of AI, NVIDIA s platform accelerates both deep learning and machine learning workloads. Deep learning is a computer science approach where neural networks are trained to recognize patterns from massive amounts of data in the form of images, sounds and text - in some instances better than humans - and in turn provide predictions in production use cases. Machine learning is a related approach that leverages algorithms as well as data to learn how to make determinations or predictions, and is often used in data science. HPC, also referred to as scientific computing, uses numerical computational approaches to solve large and complex problems. For both AI and HPC applications, the 5 Table of Contents NVIDIA accelerated computing platform greatly increases the performance and power efficiency of high-performance computers and data centers. We are engaged with thousands of organizations working on AI in a multitude of industries, from automating tasks such as consumer product and service recommendations, to chatbots for the automation of or assistance with live customer interactions, to enabling fraud detection in financial services, to optimizing oil exploration and drilling. These organizations include the world s leading consumer internet and cloud services companies, enterprises and startups seeking to implement AI in transformative ways across multiple industries. We partnered with industry leaders such as Amazon, Inc., or Amazon, Alphabet Inc., or Alphabet, International Business Machines Corporation, or IBM, Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft, Oracle Corporation, or Oracle, SAP SE, and VMware Inc. to bring AI to enterprise users. We also have partnerships in transportation, retail, healthcare, and manufacturing, among others, to accelerate the adoption of AI. At the foundation of the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform are our GPUs, which excel at parallel workloads such as the training and inferencing of neural networks. They are available in industry standard servers from every major computer maker, including Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, Dell Technologies Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, or HP, Hitachi Vantara, Inspur Group, and Lenovo Group Limited; from every major cloud service provider such as Alicloud, Amazon Web Services, Baidu Cloud, Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Oracle Cloud, and Tencent Cloud; as well as in our DGX AI supercomputer, a purpose-built system for deep learning and GPU accelerated applications. To facilitate customer adoption, we have also built other ready-to-use system reference designs around our GPUs, including HGX for hyperscale and supercomputing data centers, EGX for enterprise and edge computing, and AGX for autonomous machines. Beyond GPUs, NVIDIA has expanded its data center processor portfolio to include DPUs, introduced in fiscal year 2021, and CPUs planned to ship in early fiscal year 2024. NVIDIA Bluefield DPU is supported by foundational data-center-infrastructure-on-a-chip software, or DOCA, that lets developers build software-defined, hardware-accelerated networking, security, storage and management applications for BlueField DPUs. Partners supporting Bluefield include many of the top security, storage and networking companies. We can optimize across the entire computing, networking and storage stack to deliver data center-scale computing solutions. While our approach starts with powerful chips, what makes it a full-stack computing platform is our large body of software, including the CUDA parallel programming model, the CUDA-X collection of application acceleration libraries, Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs, SDKs and tools, and domain-specific application frameworks. We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud registry, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized software stacks across a range of domains including scientific computing, deep learning, and machine learning. With NGC, AI developers, researchers and data scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and deploy them on DGX systems, NVIDIA-Certified systems from our partners, or with NVIDIA s cloud partners. In addition to software that is delivered to customers as an integral part of our data center computing platform, we offer enterprise software products on a standalone basis as a perpetual license or subscription. Our enterprise software offerings include NVIDIA AI Enterprise, a comprehensive suite of enterprise-grade AI software; NVIDIA Fleet Command software-as-a-service for securely deploying and managing AI applications across distributed edge infrastructure; NVIDIA Base Command software-as-a-service for managing large-scale, multi-user and multi-team AI development workflows; and NVIDIA vGPU software products that enable powerful GPU performance for workloads ranging from graphics-rich virtual desktops and workstations to data science and AI. Professional Visualization We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors, or ISVs, to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing solutions enhance productivity and introduce new capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and manufacturing and digital content creation. Design and manufacturing encompass computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing, medical instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes professional video editing and post-production, special effects for films, and broadcast-television graphics. The NVIDIA RTX platform makes it possible to render film-quality, photorealistic objects and environments with physically accurate shadows, reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Many leading 3D design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software. 6 Table of Contents Designers who build the products we use every day need the images that they view digitally to mirror reality. This requires simulating the physical behavior of light and materials, or physically-based rendering. NVIDIA Omniverse is a virtual world simulation and collaboration platform for 3D workflows that is available as a software subscription for enterprise use and free for individual use. Omniverse, VR and AR are being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise applications. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy these technologies, powered by our GPUs. Automotive NVIDIA s Automotive market is comprised of cockpit AV platforms, AI cockpit and infotainment solutions, and associated development agreements. Leveraging our technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive relationships, we are delivering a complete end-to-end solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand. NVIDIA has demonstrated multiple applications of AI within the car: AI can drive the car itself as a pilot in fully autonomous mode or it can also be a co-pilot, assisting the human driver while creating a safer driving experience. NVIDIA is working with several hundred partners in the automotive ecosystem including automakers, truck makers, tier-one suppliers, sensor manufacturers, automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, and startups to develop and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI computing architecture starts with training deep neural networks using our GPUs, and then running a full perception, planning and control stack within the vehicle on the NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform. The DRIVE Hyperion platform consists of the high-performance, energy efficient DRIVE AGX computing hardware, a reference sensor set that supports full self-driving capability as well as an open, modular DRIVE Software platform. We recently announced for future release the DRIVE Software platform that includes DRIVE Chauffeur based on NVIDIA DRIVE AV software to enable autonomous driving, mapping and parking services; and Drive Concierge based on NVIDIA DRIVE IX software for intelligent in-vehicle experiences and NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar software for real time conversational AI capability. NVIDIA DRIVE can perceive and understand in real-time what is happening around the vehicle, precisely locate itself on an HD map, and plan a safe path forward. This advanced self-driving car platform combines deep learning, sensor fusion, and surround vision to change the driving experience. Our DRIVE platform scales from a palm-sized, energy-efficient module for automated highway-driving capabilities to a configuration with multiple systems aimed at enabling driverless cars. Our newest system-on-a-chip, or SoC, Orin, which started shipping in fiscal year 2022, enables vehicles to use deep neural networks to process data from multiple cameras and sensors. It powers the DRIVE AutoPilot, NVIDIA s automated driving solution, combining the DRIVE AV self-driving solution with the DRIVE IX cockpit software, including a visualization system for allowing the driver to see what the car sees and plans to do. In addition, we offer a scalable data center-based simulation solution, NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation running DRIVE Sim software, for testing and validating a self-driving platform before commercial deployment. NVIDIA's unique end-to-end, software-defined approach is designed for continuous innovation and continuous development, enabling cars to receive over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life of a vehicle. Business Strategies NVIDIA s key strategies that shape our overall business approach include: Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform. NVIDIA s accelerated computing platform can solve complex problems in significantly less time and with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches. Indeed, it can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We work to deliver continued performance leaps that outpace Moore s Law by leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system, and software layers. With our acquisition of Mellanox, we strengthened our end-to-end expertise in data center architectures, positioning us for a future when the data center is the new unit of computing. This full-stack innovation approach allows us to deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to legacy approaches in our target markets, which include Gaming, Data Center, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and CUDA as the fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to make leveraged investments in R D: we can support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach in each of our target markets. Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete, end-to-end accelerated computing platform for deep learning and machine learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes GPUs, interconnects, systems, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries, and other software. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and we will continue to add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our leadership 7 Table of Contents position. Our AI technology leadership is reinforced by our large and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our GPU platforms are available from virtually every major server maker and cloud service provider, as well as on our own AI supercomputer. There are almost 3 million developers worldwide using CUDA and our other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target markets. We evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and almost 10,000 startups through our Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to design, train, and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated computing platform. Extending our technology and platform leadership in computer graphics. We believe that computer graphics is fundamental to the continued expansion and evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources to enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional visualization applications, and create new virtual world and simulation capabilities. Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our computer graphics platforms leverage not only our industry-leading GeForce and NVIDIA RTX GPUs, but also optimized software stacks. For example, GeForce Experience enhances each gamer s experience by optimizing their PC s settings, as well as enabling the recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a number of popular creative applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists, designers and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design applications. We also enable interactive graphics applications - such as games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost any device, almost anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as vGPU for enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming. Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV will soon revolutionize the transportation industry. In our view, AI is the key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will run on multiple trained neural networks instead. Therefore, we provide a full functionally safe AI-based hardware and software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-based hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation prior to any over-the-air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-end approach will enable the transportation industry to solve the complex problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving. Leveraging our intellectual property, or IP. We believe our IP is a valuable asset that can be accessed by our customers and partners through license and d