Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 9 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 9 Item 2. Properties 10 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 10 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 10 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 11 Item 6. Reserved 12 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 13 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 26 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 27 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 27 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 27 Item 9B. Other Information 27 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 27 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 28 Item 11. Executive Compensation 28 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 28 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 28 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 29 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 30 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General NVR, Inc., a Virginia corporation, was formed in 1980 as NVHomes, Inc. Our primary business is the construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings, all of which are primarily constructed on a pre-sold basis. To more fully serve customers of our homebuilding operations, we also operate a mortgage banking and title services business. We conduct our homebuilding activities directly. Our mortgage banking operations are operated primarily through a wholly owned subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ( NVRM ). Unless the context otherwise requires, references to NVR , we , us or our include NVR, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are one of the largest homebuilders in the United States. We operate in thirty-six metropolitan areas in fifteen states, and Washington, D.C. Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings under three trade names: Ryan Homes, NVHomes and Heartland Homes. Our Ryan Homes product is marketed primarily to first-time and first-time move-up buyers. Ryan Homes operates in thirty-six metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, Washington, D.C., Delaware, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York, New Jersey, Indiana, Illinois, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Tennessee. Our NVHomes and Heartland Homes products are marketed primarily to move-up and luxury buyers. NVHomes operates in Delaware, New Jersey, and the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, MD and Philadelphia, PA metropolitan areas. Heartland Homes operates in the Pittsburgh, PA metropolitan area. We generally do not engage in land development (see discussion below of our land development activities). Instead, we typically acquire finished building lots from various third party land developers pursuant to fixed price finished lot purchase agreements ( LPAs ) that require deposits that may be forfeited if we fail to perform under the LPAs. The deposits required under the LPAs are in the form of cash or letters of credit in varying amounts and typically range up to 10% of the aggregate purchase price of the finished lots. We believe that our lot acquisition strategy avoids the financial requirements and risks associated with direct land ownership and land development. We may, at our option, choose for any reason and at any time not to perform under these LPAs by delivering notice of our intent not to acquire the finished lots under contract. Our sole legal obligation and economic loss for failure to perform under these LPAs is limited to the amount of the deposit pursuant to the liquidated damage provision contained within the LPAs. We do not have any financial guarantees or completion obligations and we typically do not guarantee lot purchases on a specific performance basis under these LPAs. None of the creditors of any of the development entities with which we have entered these LPAs have recourse to our general credit. We generally seek to maintain control over a supply of lots believed to be suitable to meet our five-year business plan. In addition to constructing homes primarily on a pre-sold basis and utilizing what we believe is a conservative lot acquisition strategy, we focus on obtaining and maintaining a leading market position in each market we serve. This strategy allows us to gain valuable efficiencies and competitive advantages in our markets, which we believe contributes to minimizing the adverse effects of regional economic cycles and provides growth opportunities within these markets. Our continued success is contingent upon our ability to control an adequate supply of finished lots on which to build. As a result, in certain specific strategic circumstances we deviate from our historical lot acquisition strategy and engage in joint venture arrangements with land developers or directly acquire raw ground already zoned for its intended use for development. Once we acquire control of raw ground, we determine whether to sell the raw parcel to a developer and enter into an LPA with the developer to purchase the finished lots or hire a developer to develop the land on our behalf. While joint venture arrangements and direct land development activity are not our preferred method of acquiring finished building lots, we may enter into additional transactions in the future on a limited basis where there exists a compelling strategic or prudent financial reason to do so. We expect, however, to continue to acquire substantially all of our finished lot inventory using LPAs with forfeitable deposits. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of lots controlled. In addition, see Notes 3, 4 and 5 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information regarding LPAs, joint ventures and land under development, respectively. In addition to building and selling homes, we provide a number of mortgage-related services through our mortgage banking operations. Through operations in each of our homebuilding markets, NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for our homebuyers. NVRM generates revenues primarily from origination fees, gains on sales of loans and title fees. NVRM sells almost all of the mortgage loans it closes into the secondary markets on a servicing released basis. Segment information for our homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses is included in Note 2 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 1 Table of Contents Homebuilding Products We offer single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings with many different home designs. These home designs have a variety of elevations and numerous other options. Our homes combine traditional, transitional, cottage or urban exterior designs with contemporary interior designs and amenities, generally include two to four bedrooms and range from approximately 1,000 to 10,000 finished square feet. During 2023, the prices at which we settled homes ranged from approximately $190,000 to $2.6 million and averaged $450,700. During 2022, our average price of homes settled was $454,300. Markets Our four reportable homebuilding segments operate in the following geographic regions: Mid Atlantic: Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware and Washington, D.C. North East: New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania Mid East: New York, Ohio, Western Pennsylvania, Indiana and Illinois South East: North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Florida and Georgia Backlog Backlog, which represents homes sold but not yet settled with the customer, totaled 10,229 units and approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 2023 compared to 9,162 units and approximately $4.3 billion at December 31, 2022. The average price of homes in backlog decreased to $465,000 at December 31, 2023 from $472,200 at December 31, 2022. Backlog may be impacted by customer cancellations for various reasons that are beyond our control, such as the customer s failure to obtain mortgage financing, inability to sell an existing home, job loss or a variety of other reasons. In any period, a portion of the cancellations that we experience are related to new sales that occurred during the same period, and a portion are related to sales that occurred in prior periods and therefore appeared in the opening backlog for the current period. Expressed as the total of all cancellations during the period as a percentage of gross sales during the period, our cancellation rate was approximately 13%, 14% and 9% in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. During the four quarters of each of 2023, 2022 and 2021, approximately 4% in 2023, 4% in 2022 and 3% in 2021 of a reporting quarter s opening backlog cancelled during the quarter. We can provide no assurance that our historical cancellation rates are indicative of the actual cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. Other than those units that are cancelled, we expect to settle substantially all of our December 31, 2023 backlog during 2024. See Risk Factors in Item 1A and Seasonality in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Further discussion of settlements, new orders and backlog activity by our homebuilding reportable segment for each of the last three years can be found in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Construction We utilize independent subcontractors under fixed price contracts to perform construction work on our homes. We use many independent subcontractors in our various markets and we are not dependent on any single subcontractor or on a small number of subcontractors. Sales and Marketing Our preferred marketing method is for customers to visit a furnished model home featuring many built-in options and a landscaped lot. The garages of these model homes are usually converted into temporary sales centers where alternative facades and floor plans are displayed and designs for other models are available for review. Sales representatives are compensated predominantly on a commission basis. Regulation We and our subcontractors must comply with various federal, state and local zoning, building, environmental, advertising and consumer credit statutes, rules and regulations, as well as other regulations and requirements in connection with our construction and sales activities. All of these regulations have increased the cost to produce and market our products, and in some instances, have delayed our developers ability to deliver finished lots to us. Counties and cities in which we build homes have at times declared moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and imposed other restrictions in the areas in which sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities do not reach minimum standards. In addition, our homebuilding operations are regulated in certain areas by restrictive zoning and density requirements that limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. To date, restrictive zoning laws and the imposition of moratoriums have not had a material adverse effect on our construction activities. 2 Table of Contents Competition and Market Factors The housing industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders of varying size, ranging from local to national in scope, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. We also face competition from the home resale market. Our homebuilding operations compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. Historically, we have been one of the market leaders in each of the markets where we build homes. The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by consumer confidence levels, prevailing economic conditions and interest rates. Other factors that affect the housing industry and the demand for new homes include: the availability and the cost of land, labor and materials; changes in consumer preferences; demographic trends; and the availability of mortgage finance programs. See Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these risks. We are dependent upon building material suppliers for a continuous flow of raw materials. Whenever possible, we utilize standard products available from multiple sources. In the past, such raw materials have been generally available to us in adequate supply. However, increased construction activity and demand for building materials, coupled with the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, led to supply chain disruptions and longer construction cycle times during 2021 and 2022. During 2023, we began to see improvements in our supply chains and in turn improvement in our construction cycle times. Mortgage Banking We provide a number of mortgage related services to our homebuilding customers through our mortgage banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations also include separate subsidiaries that broker title insurance and perform title searches in connection with mortgage loan closings for which they receive commissions and fees. Because NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for our homebuilding customers, NVRM is dependent on our homebuilding segment. In 2023, NVRM closed approximately 15,900 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $5.7 billion as compared to approximately 17,000 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $6.3 billion in 2022. NVRM s mortgage loans in process that had not closed had an aggregate principal balance of approximately $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2023 compared to approximately $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2022. NVRM sells almost all of the mortgage loans it closes to investors in the secondary markets on a servicing released basis, typically within 30 days from the loan closing. NVRM is an approved seller/servicer for Fannie Mae ( FNMA ) and Freddie Mac ("FHLMC") mortgage loans and an approved seller/issuer/servicer of Ginnie Mae ( GNMA ), Department of Veterans Affairs ( VA ) and Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) mortgage loans. Regulation NVRM is subject to the rules and regulations of FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, VA and FHA. These rules and regulations restrict certain activities of NVRM. NVRM is currently eligible and expects to remain eligible to participate in such programs. In addition, NVRM is subject to regulation at the state and federal level, including regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB ) with respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices. Competition and Market Factors NVRM s main competition comes from national, regional, and local mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, credit unions and banks in each of these markets. NVRM competes primarily on the basis of customer service, variety of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services and relative financing availability and costs. Human Capital As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 6,300 full time employees, of whom approximately 5,300 worked in our homebuilding operations, and approximately 1,000 worked in our mortgage banking operations, compared to December 31, 2022, when we had approximately 6,550 full time employees, of whom approximately 5,500 worked in our homebuilding operations, and approximately 1,050 worked in our mortgage banking operations. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our employees are our most important asset. We are committed to continually developing an inclusive culture that attracts a diverse workforce and enables them to contribute to the success of the company by emphasizing their unique perspectives and backgrounds. All of our employees must adhere to our code of ethics and standards of business conduct that sets standards for appropriate behavior in the workplace. Our compensation philosophy has been consistent for over 25 years and is designed to motivate and retain highly qualified and experienced employees. We provide tools for the advancement of our employees by offering training and development opportunities that align with each employee s responsibilities and career path. We strive to promote employees from within our workforce, as we believe this provides both long-term success and continuity to our operations and growth for our employees. Our focus is demonstrated by the tenure of our executives and our regional and division leaders. 3 Table of Contents Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). These filings are available to the public over the internet at the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . Our principal internet website can be found at www.nvrinc.com . We make available free of charge on or through our website, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed, or furnished, to the SEC. Our website also includes a corporate governance section which contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines (which includes our Directors Independence Standards), Code of Ethics and Standards of Business Conduct, Board Committee Charters, Policies and Procedures for the Consideration of Board of Director Candidates, and Policies and Procedures Regarding Communications with the NVR, Inc. Board of Directors, the Independent Lead Director and the Non-Management Directors as a Group. Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements in this Form 10-K, as well as statements made by us in periodic press releases or other public communications, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Certain, but not necessarily all, of such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as believes, expects, may, will, should, or anticipates or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. All statements other than of historical facts are forward looking statements. Forward-looking statements contained in this document include those regarding market trends, our financial position and financial results, business strategy, the outcome of pending litigation, investigations or similar contingencies, projected plans and objectives of management for future operations. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to the following: general economic and business conditions (on both a national and regional level); interest rate changes; access to suitable financing by us and our customers; increased regulation in the mortgage banking industry; the ability of our mortgage banking subsidiary to sell loans it originates into the secondary market; competition; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; shortages of labor; the economic impact of a major epidemic or pandemic; weather related slow-downs; building moratoriums; governmental regulation; fluctuation and volatility of stock and other financial markets; mortgage financing availability; and other factors over which we have little or no control. We undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements except as required by law.