ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 16 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 ITEM 2. Properties 30 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 31 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 32 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 58 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 126 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 126 ITEM 9B. Other Information 126 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 126 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 127 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 127 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 127 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 128 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 128 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 129 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 132 SIGNATURES 133 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company News Corporation (the Company, News Corp, we, us, or our ) is a global diversified media and information services company focused on creating and distributing authoritative and engaging content and other products and services to consumers and businesses throughout the world. The Company comprises businesses across a range of media, including digital real estate services, subscription video services in Australia, news and information services and book publishing, that are distributed under some of the world s most recognizable and respected brands, including The Wall Street Journal , Barron s , Dow Jones, The Australian , Herald Sun , The Sun , The Times, HarperCollins Publishers, Foxtel, FOX SPORTS Australia, realestate.com.au, Realtor.com , talkSPORT, OPIS and many others. The Company s commitment to premium content makes its properties a premier destination for news, information, sports, entertainment and real estate. The Company distributes its content and other products and services to consumers and customers across an array of digital platforms including websites, mobile apps, smart TVs, social media, e-book devices and streaming audio platforms, as well as traditional platforms such as print, television and radio. The Company s focus on quality and product innovation has enabled it to capitalize on the shift to digital consumption to deliver its content and other products and services in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner and create opportunities for more effective monetization, including new licensing and partnership arrangements and digital offerings that leverage the Company s existing content rights. The Company is pursuing multiple strategies to further exploit these opportunities, including leveraging global audience scale and valuable data and sharing technologies and practices across geographies and businesses. The Company s diversified revenue base includes recurring subscriptions, circulation sales, advertising sales, sales of real estate listing products, licensing fees and other consumer product sales. Headquartered in New York, the Company operates primarily in the United States, Australia and the U.K., with its content and other products and services distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company s operations are organized into six reporting segments: (i) Digital Real Estate Services; (ii) Subscription Video Services; (iii) Dow Jones; (iv) Book Publishing; (v) News Media; and (vi) Other, which includes the Company s general corporate overhead expenses, costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters (as defined in Note 16 Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements) and expenses associated with the Company s cost reduction initiatives . The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. Fiscal 2022, fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 included 53, 52 and 52 weeks, respectively. Unless otherwise noted, all references to the fiscal periods ended June 30, 2022, June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020 relate to the fiscal periods ended July 3, 2022, June 27, 2021 and June 28, 2020, respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30. Corporate Information News Corporation is a Delaware corporation originally organized on December 11, 2012 in connection with its separation from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., which was completed on June 28, 2013. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 (the Annual Report ) to the Company, News Corp, we, us, or our means News Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Company s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone number is (212) 416-3400. The Company s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbols NWSA and NWS, respectively, and CHESS Depositary Interests representing the Company s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange ( ASX ) under the trading symbols NWSLV and NWS, respectively. More information regarding the Company is available on its website at www.newscorp.com , including the Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), which are available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The information on the Company s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report or incorporated into any other filings it makes with the SEC. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This document and any documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, including Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. The words expect, will, estimate, 1 Table of Contents anticipate, predict, believe, should and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places in this document and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company s financial condition or results of operations, the Company s strategy and strategic initiatives and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. More information regarding these risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is set forth under the heading