ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 15 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 ITEM 2. Properties 31 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 32 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 34 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 138 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 138 ITEM 9B. Other Information 138 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 139 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 139 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 139 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 140 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 140 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 141 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 143 SIGNATURES 144 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company News Corporation (the Company, News Corp, we, us, or our ) is a global diversified media and information services company focused on creating and distributing authoritative and engaging content and other products and services to consumers and businesses throughout the world. The Company comprises businesses across a range of media, including digital real estate services, subscription video services in Australia, news and information services and book publishing, that are distributed under some of the world s most recognizable and respected brands, including The Wall Street Journal , Barron s , Dow Jones, The Australian , Herald Sun , The Sun , The Times, HarperCollins Publishers, Foxtel, FOX SPORTS Australia, realestate.com.au, realtor.com , talkSPORT and many others. The Company s commitment to premium content makes its properties a premier destination for news, information and entertainment. The Company distributes its content and other products and services to consumers and customers across various platforms consisting of traditional print and television, as well as an array of digital platforms including websites, applications for mobile devices and tablets, social media and e-book devices. The Company believes that the increasing number of media choices and formats will allow it to continue to deliver its content and other products and services in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner and provide opportunities for more effective monetization via strong consumer and customer relationships, licensing arrangements and more compelling and engaging advertising solutions. The Company is pursuing multiple strategies to exploit these opportunities, including sharing technologies and practices across geographies and businesses and bundling selected offerings to provide greater value to consumers, customers and advertising partners. The Company s diversified revenue base includes recurring subscriptions, circulation sales, advertising sales, sales of real estate listing products, licensing fees and other consumer product sales. Headquartered in New York, the Company operates primarily in the United States, Australia and the U.K., with its content and other products and services distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company s operations are organized into six reporting segments: (i) Digital Real Estate Services; (ii) Subscription Video Services; (iii) Dow Jones; (iv) Book Publishing; (v) News Media; and (vi) Other, which includes the Company s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters (as defined in Item 3. Legal Proceedings ). Effective with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company is reporting financial information for its Dow Jones business in a separate segment. Previously, the financial information for this segment was aggregated with the businesses within the News Media segment and, together, formed the News and Information Services reportable segment. Following the sale of its News America Marketing business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and in conjunction with the Company s annual budgeting process, the Company determined that aggregation was no longer appropriate as certain of the remaining businesses no longer shared similar economic characteristics. The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. Fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 each included 52 weeks. Unless otherwise noted, all references to the fiscal periods ended June 30, 2020, June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 relate to the fiscal periods ended June 28, 2020, June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30. Corporate Information News Corporation is a Delaware corporation originally organized on December 11, 2012 in connection with its separation (the Separation ) from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (formerly named News Corporation) ( 21st Century Fox ), which was completed on June 28, 2013 (the Distribution Date ). In connection with the Separation, the Company assumed the name News Corporation. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 (the Annual Report ) to the Company, News Corp, we, us, or our means News Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Company s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone number is (212) 416-3400. The Company s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market ( Nasdaq ) under the trading symbols NWSA and NWS, respectively, and CHESS Depositary Interests ( CDIs ) representing the Company s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange ( ASX ) under the trading symbols NWSLV and NWS, respectively. More information regarding the Company is available on its website at www.newscorp.com , including the Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), which are available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The 1 Table of Contents information on the Company s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report or incorporated into any other filings it makes with the SEC. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This document and any documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, including Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. The words expect, estimate, anticipate, predict, believe and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places in this document and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company s financial condition or results of operations, including expected impacts from the ongoing novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic and related public health measures, the Company s strategy and strategic initiatives and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, including those related to COVID-19. More information regarding these risks and uncertainties (many of which may be amplified by COVID-19) and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is set forth under the heading