Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 6 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 1C Cybersecurity 18 Item 2 Properties 19 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Part II 20 Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6 [Reserved] 21 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 30 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 47 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B Other Information 49 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 49 Part III 49 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 49 Item 11 Executive Compensation 49 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 49 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 49 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 49 Part IV 50 Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 50 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 50 Exhibit Index 51 Signatures 55 FORWARD-LOOKIN G INFORMATION Forward-looking statements appear in this Annual Report, including but not limited to Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in other written and oral statements made by or on behalf of us. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our goals, strategies, expectations, competitive environment, compliance with regulations, availability of resources, future events and future financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements typically can be identified by such words as anticipate, estimate, forecast, project, intend, expect, believe, should, could, may, or other similar words or expressions. We caution readers that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied herein, including, but not limited to, the risk factors detailed in this Annual Report. Our forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions using information available at the time the statements are made. We caution the reader not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements as (i) these statements are neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances and (ii) the assumptions, beliefs, expectations and projections about future events may differ materially from actual results. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect developments occurring after the statement is made, except to the extent required by law. PART I ITEM 1. B USINESS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to Old Dominion, the Company, we, us and our refer to Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. Overview We are one of the largest North American less-than-truckload ( LTL ) motor carriers. We provide regional, inter-regional and national LTL services through a single integrated, union-free organization. Our service offerings, which include expedited transportation, are provided through an expansive network of service centers located throughout the continental United States. Through strategic alliances, we also provide LTL services throughout North America. In addition to our core LTL services, we offer a range of value-added services including container drayage, truckload brokerage and supply chain consulting. More than 98% of our revenue has historically been derived from transporting LTL shipments for our customers, whose demand for our services is generally tied to industrial production and the overall health of the U.S. domestic economy. We have increased our revenue and customer base over the past ten years primarily through organic market share growth. Our infrastructure allows us to provide service through each of our regions covering the continental United States. In addition to numerous service center renovations, expansions, and existing service center relocations, we opened 2, 22 and 36 new service centers over the past one, five and ten years, respectively, for a total of 257 service centers at December 31, 2023. We believe these actions produced increased capacity within our service center network and provide us with opportunities for future growth. We believe the growth in demand for our services can be attributed to our ability to consistently provide a superior level of customer service at a fair price, which allows our customers to meet their supply chain needs. Our integrated structure allows us to offer our customers consistent, high-quality service from origin to destination, and we believe our operating structure and proprietary information systems enable us to efficiently manage our operating costs. Our services are complemented by our technological capabilities, which we believe improve the efficiency of our operations while also empowering our customers to manage their individual shipping needs. We were founded in 1934 and incorporated in Virginia in 1950. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 Old Dominion Way, Thomasville, North Carolina 27360. Our Industry Trucking companies provide transportation services to virtually every industry operating in the United States and generally offer higher levels of reliability and faster transit times than other surface transportation options. The trucking industry is comprised principally of two types of motor carriers: LTL and truckload. LTL freight carriers typically pick up multiple shipments from multiple customers on a single truck. The LTL freight is then routed through a network of service centers where the freight may be transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. LTL motor carriers generally require a more expansive network of local pickup and delivery 1 ( P D ) service centers, as well as larger breakbulk, or hub, facilities. In contrast, truckload carriers generally dedicate an entire truck to one customer from origin to destination. Significant capital is required to create and maintain a network of service centers and a fleet of tractors and trailers. The high fixed costs and capital spending requirements for LTL motor carriers make it difficult for new start-up or small operators to effectively compete with established carriers. In addition, successful LTL motor carriers generally employ, and regularly update, a high level of technology-based systems and processes that provide information to customers and help reduce operating costs. In 2022, the LTL industry had revenue of approximately $53.8 billion based on information reported in Transport Topics . The LTL industry is highly competitive on the basis of service and price and has consolidated significantly since the industry was deregulated in 1980. The largest 5 and 10 LTL motor carriers accounted for approximately 56% and 81%, respectively, of the domestic LTL market in 2022 according to information reported in Transport Topics . We believe consolidation in our industry will continue due to increased customer demand for transportation providers that can offer both regional and national service as well as other complementary value-added services. Competition The transportation and logistics industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with regional, inter-regional and national LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers, small package carriers, airfreight carriers and railroads. We also compete with, and provide transportation services to, third-party logistics providers that determine both the mode of transportation and the carrier. Some of our competitors may have a broader global network and a wider range of services than we do. Competition in our industry is based primarily on service, price, available capacity and business relationships. We believe we are able to gain market share by providing high-quality service at a fair price and intend to expand the capacity of our network to accommodate future growth. Throughout our organization, we continuously seek to improve customer service by, among other things, maximizing on-time performance and minimizing cargo claims. We believe our transit times are generally faster and more reliable than those of our principal national competitors, in part because of our more efficient service center network, use of team drivers and proprietary technology. In addition, we provide greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. Our diversified mix and scope of regional, inter-regional and national LTL service, combined with our value-added service offerings, enables us to provide our customers with a single source to meet their shipping and logistics needs. We believe the combination of these factors provides us with a distinct advantage over most of our competitors. We utilize flexible scheduling and train our employees to perform multiple tasks, which we believe allows us to achieve greater productivity and higher levels of customer service than our competitors. We believe our focus on employee communication, continued education, development and motivation strengthens the relationships and trust among our employees. Service Center Operations At December 31, 2023, we operated 257 service center locations, of which we owned 233 and leased 24. Our service centers are responsible for the pickup and delivery ("P D") of freight within their local service area. Each night, our service centers load outbound freight for transport to our other service centers for delivery. All inbound freight received by the service center in the evening or during the night is generally scheduled for local delivery the next business day, unless a customer requests a different delivery schedule. Our management reviews the productivity and service performance of each service center on a daily basis to help ensure quality service and efficient operations. Our network includes major breakbulk facilities, as well as various other service centers that are used for additional limited breakbulk activity in order to serve our next-day markets. Our service centers are strategically located throughout the country so that we can provide the highest quality service and minimize freight rehandling costs. Although we have established primary responsibility for customer service at the local service center level, our customers may access information and initiate transactions through our centralized customer service department located at our corporate office or through other digital channels. Our systems allow us to offer our customers access to information such as freight tracking, shipping documents, rate quotes, rate databases and account activity. Our integrated systems and customer service department provide our customers with a single point of contact to access information across all areas of our operations and for each of our service offerings. Linehaul Transportation Linehaul dispatchers control the movement of freight between service centers through integrated freight movement systems. We also utilize load-planning software to optimize efficiencies in our linehaul operations. Our management team monitors freight 2 movements, transit times, load factors and many other productivity measurements to help ensure that we maintain our high levels of service and efficiency. We utilize scheduled routes and additional linehaul dispatches as necessary to meet our published transit times. In addition, we gain efficiency through the use of twin 28-foot trailers in our linehaul operations. The use of twin 28-foot trailers permits us to transport freight directly from its point of origin to destination with minimal unloading and reloading, which also reduces our exposure to potential cargo loss and damage expenses. We utilize long-combination vehicles, such as triple 28-foot trailers and combinations of 48-foot and 28-foot trailers, in states where permitted. Twin trailers and long-combination vehicles permit more freight to be transported behind a tractor than could otherwise be transported by one trailer. Tractors, Trailers and Maintenance At December 31, 2023, we owned 10,791 tractors. We generally use new tractors in linehaul operations for approximately three to five years and then transfer those tractors to P D operations for the remainder of their useful lives. In many of our service centers, tractors perform P D functions during the day and linehaul functions at night to maximize tractor utilization. The table below reflects, as of December 31, 2023, the average age of our tractors and trailers: Type of Equipment Number of Units Average Age (In years) Tractors 10,791 4.5 Linehaul trailers 31,233 7.0 P D trailers 15,181 7.2 We develop certain specifications for tractors and trailers and then negotiate the production and purchase of this equipment with several manufacturers. These purchases are planned well in advance of anticipated delivery dates in order to accommodate manufacturers production schedules. We generally believe there is sufficient capacity among suppliers to help ensure an uninterrupted supply of equipment to support our operations. We may periodically utilize third-party transportation providers in our linehaul network to supplement our equipment or maintain older equipment that would have otherwise been replaced based on our normal equipment cycle, in order to support our equipment needs. The table below sets forth our capital expenditures for tractors and trailers for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. For more information concerning our capital expenditures, see Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources in this report. Year Ended December 31, In thousands 2023 2022 Tractors $ 203,417 $ 148,719 Trailers 181,534 216,697 Total $ 384,951 $ 365,416 At December 31, 2023, we operated 46 fleet maintenance centers at strategic service center locations throughout our network. These fleet maintenance centers are equipped to perform routine and preventive maintenance and repairs on our equipment. We adhere to established maintenance policies and procedures to help ensure our fleet is properly maintained. Tractors are routed to appropriate maintenance facilities or authorized repair vendors generally at designated mileage intervals or every 90 days, whichever occurs first. Trailers are also generally scheduled for preventive maintenance every 90 days. Customers Revenue is generated primarily from customers throughout the United States and North America. In 2023, our largest customer accounted for approximately 5.2% of our revenue and our largest 5, 10 and 20 customers accounted for 15.0%, 21.6% and 30.6% of our revenue, respectively. For each of our last two fiscal years, more than 95% of our revenue was derived from services performed in the United States and less than 5% of our revenue was generated from services performed internationally. We believe the diversity of our customer base helps protect our business from adverse developments in a single geographic region and from the reduction or loss of business from a single customer. 3 We utilize an integrated freight-costing system to determine the price level at which a particular freight shipment will be profitable. We can modify elements of this freight-costing model to simulate the actual conditions under which the freight will be moved. Many of our customers engage our services through the terms and provisions of our tariffs and through negotiated service contracts. We also compete for business by participating in bid solicitations. Customers generally solicit bids for relatively large numbers of shipments for a period of one to two years and typically choose to enter into contractual arrangements with a limited number of motor carriers based upon price and service. Seasonality Our tonnage levels and revenue mix are subject to seasonal trends common in our industry, although other factors, such as macroeconomic changes, could cause variation in these trends. Our revenue and operating margins in the first and fourth quarters are typically lower than those during the second and third quarters due to reduced shipments during the winter months. Harsh weather, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and other natural disasters can also adversely impact our performance by reducing demand and increasing operating expenses. We believe seasonal trends will continue to impact our business. Technology Our technology is critical to the success and delivery of the premium service provided by our operations. We continually seek to upgrade and enhance our technological capabilities, including our use of cloud-based technology. We also provide access to our systems through multiple secure gateways that offer our customers and employees maximum flexibility and access to information. We employ vehicle safety systems, forward-facing cameras, on-board computer systems, smart phones, freight handling systems and logistics technology to reduce costs and transit times, as well as to meet regulatory requirements. Our data systems are integrated at every level within our organization, which we believe is critical to our success. Our systems are protected through physical and software safeguards, as well as redundant systems, network security measures and backups. We continue to focus on the development and enhancement of the technology used in our operations in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our services. Insurance We carry a significant amount of insurance with third-party insurance carriers that provides various levels of protection for our risk exposure, including protection in the areas of property, casualty, cyber, management, and group health, with coverage limits and retention/deductible levels that we believe are reasonable given historical claim activity and severity. We believe that our policy of maintaining self-insured retentions or deductibles under these various insurance programs for a portion of our risks, supported by our safety, claims management and loss prevention programs, is an effective means of managing insurance costs. We periodically review our risk exposure and insurance coverage applicable to those risks and believe that we maintain sufficient insurance coverage. Diesel Fuel Availability and Cost We depend heavily upon the availability and quality of diesel fuel, including alternative fuel types, to provide our transportation services. We maintain fuel storage and pumping facilities at certain service center locations as the primary source for fueling our fleet, and we utilize over-the-road fueling options at retail locations as necessary. We could be susceptible to regional and/or national fuel shortages, which could cause us to incur additional expense in order to obtain an adequate supply within our own fueling network or cause us to rely more heavily on higher-priced retail fuel. We believe our operations and financial condition are susceptible to the same diesel fuel price increases or shortages as those of our competitors. We have fuel surcharge programs that are designed to mitigate the financial statement impact of changes in the price of diesel fuel. Our fuel surcharges are generally indexed to fuel prices published by the U.S. Department of Energy (the DOE ) that reset each week and are one of many components that we use to determine the overall price for our transportation services. 4 Human Capital Employee Profile As of December 31, 2023, we employed 22,902 active full-time employees, none of which were represented under a collective bargaining agreement. Our full-time employees work in the following roles: Full-Time Employees Number of Employees Drivers 11,364 Platform 4,227 Fleet technicians 673 Sales, administrative and other 6,638 Total 22,902 Employee Engagement and Benefits Our Old Dominion Family of employees are a key factor in the success of our business. The unique OD Family culture encourages development and employee engagement, and motivates our employees to provide the superior customer service for which we are known. We believe this culture is part of what attracts employees and helps keep our turnover rates low. We also provide our employees with a comprehensive benefits package, including a plan that covers our eligible employees premium for health insurance, voluntary disability and life insurance coverages, a flexible paid time off policy, a 401(k) plan with a guaranteed employer match as well as a discretionary employer match opportunity, and various wellness programs designed to assist employees with establishing and living a healthy and balanced lifestyle. Employee Development and Safety As of December 31, 2023, we employed 5,911 linehaul drivers and 5,453 P D drivers on a full-time basis. We select our drivers based upon many factors, including driving records and experience. Among other requirements, our drivers must pass a drug test, have a current U.S. Department of Transportation ( DOT ) physical and have a valid commercial driver s license prior to employment. Once employed, drivers are required to obtain and maintain hazardous materials endorsements to their commercial driver s licenses. Drivers, like all of our employees, are required to take pre-employment drug and alcohol tests and are randomly selected for periodic additional testing. Since 1988, we have provided a no-cost opportunity for qualified employees to become drivers through the Old Dominion Driver Training Program. There are currently 3,569 active drivers who have successfully completed this training, which was approximately 31.4% of our driver workforce as of December 31, 2023. We believe our driver training and qualification programs have been important factors in improving our safety record and retaining qualified drivers. Over 22% of our drivers have achieved one million safe driving miles or more. The 10-year average turnover rate for our driver graduates is approximately 7.4%, which is below our 10-year average turnover rate for our Company-wide drivers of approximately 10.1%. Based on driving records, our drivers are eligible to be rewarded with annual safety bonuses of up to $3,000 per driver. Our safety bonuses paid to drivers totaled $5.5 million, $5.3 million and $4.9 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We also maintain a Management Trainee Program, "Sales Trainee Program," and Supervisor Development Program that offer opportunities for our employees to be considered and prepared for sales and management opportunities. These programs support our philosophy of promoting from within our high-quality workforce. Governmental Regulation We are regulated by the DOT and by various state and federal agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers over matters relating to authorized motor carrier operations, as well as motor carrier registration, driver hours of service, safety and fitness of transportation equipment and drivers, transportation of hazardous materials, certain mergers and acquisitions and periodic financial reporting. The trucking industry is also subject to regulatory and legislative changes from a variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as increasingly stringent environmental regulations, occupational safety and health regulations, limits on vehicle weight and size, ergonomics, port security, and driver hours of service. 5 In addition, we are subject to compliance with cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the Transportation Security Administration ( TSA ) and Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ) within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Regulatory requirements, and changes in regulatory requirements or guidance, may affect our business or the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices that could influence the demand for and increase the costs of providing transportation services. Driver Hours of Service The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the FMCSA ) rules provide that a truck driver may work no more than a maximum number of 60 hours within seven consecutive days and 70 hours within eight consecutive days. FMCSA rules further impose a maximum work period of 14 hours (no more than 11 hours of which may be driving time) after first coming on-duty following 10 consecutive hours of off-duty time. FMCSA rules also require that drivers take a 30-minute break prior to driving beyond eight hours. Our drivers utilize electronic logging devices ( ELDs ) for the purpose of recording their hours of service. Commercial Driver s License Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse We are registered as a motor carrier with the Commercial Driver s License Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse, which requires us to check for drug and alcohol violations of current drivers at least annually and prospective employees prior to hiring. Environmental Regulation We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that focus on, among other things: the disposal, emission and discharge of hazardous waste, hazardous materials, or other materials into the environment or their presence at our properties or in our vehicles; fuel storage tanks; transportation of certain materials; and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, as well as costs associated with clean-up of accidents involving our vehicles. We do not believe that the cost of future compliance with current environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, competitive position or capital expenditures for fiscal year 2024. However, future changes to laws or regulations may adversely affect our operations and could result in unforeseen costs to our business. Available Information Through our website, http://www.odfl.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), as soon as practicable after we electronically file the material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The public may read or copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC s website, http://www.sec.gov (File No. 0-19582). Information contained on our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.