Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 112 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 112 Item 9B. Other Information 112 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 113 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 113 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 114 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 115 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 122 Signatures 123 As used in this Annual Report, references to we, our, or us refer to ONEOK, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation, and its predecessors and subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. 2 Table of Contents GLOSSARY The abbreviations, acronyms and industry terminology used in this Annual Report are defined as follows: $1.5 Billion Term Loan Agreement The senior unsecured delayed-draw three-year $1.5 billion term loan agreement dated November 19, 2018 $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement ONEOK s $2.5 billion revolving credit agreement, as amended AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction Annual Report Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 ASU Accounting Standards Update Bbl Barrels, 1 barrel is equivalent to 42 United States gallons BBtu/d Billion British thermal units per day Bcf Billion cubic feet Bcf/d Billion cubic feet per day Btu British thermal unit CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Clean Air Act Federal Clean Air Act, as amended Clean Water Act Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, as amended DJ Denver-Julesburg DOT United States Department of Transportation EBITDA Earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Foundation ONEOK Foundation, Inc. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America GHG Greenhouse gas Intermediate Partnership ONEOK Partners Intermediate Limited Partnership, a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK Partners, L.P. KCC Kansas Corporation Commission LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate MBbl/d Thousand barrels per day MDth/d Thousand dekatherms per day Merger Transaction The transaction, effective June 30, 2017, in which ONEOK acquired all of ONEOK Partners outstanding common units not already directly or indirectly owned by ONEOK MMBbl Million barrels MMBbl/d Million barrels per day MMBtu Million British thermal units MMcf/d Million cubic feet per day Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. Natural Gas Act Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended Natural Gas Policy Act Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended NGL(s) Natural gas liquid(s) NGL products Marketable natural gas liquid purity products, such as ethane, ethane/propane mix, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline Northern Border Pipeline Northern Border Pipeline Company, a 50% owned joint venture NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange OCC Oklahoma Corporation Commission ONEOK ONEOK, Inc. ONEOK Partners ONEOK Partners, L.P. ONEOK Partners Term Loan Agreement The senior unsecured three-year $1.0 billion term loan agreement dated January 8, 2016, as amended 3 Table of Contents OPIS Oil Price Information Service Overland Pass Pipeline Overland Pass Pipeline Company, LLC, a 50% owned joint venture PHMSA United States Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration POP Percent of Proceeds Quarterly Report(s) Quarterly Report(s) on Form 10-Q Roadrunner Roadrunner Gas Transmission, LLC, a 50% owned joint venture RRC Railroad Commission of Texas S P S P Global Ratings SCOOP South Central Oklahoma Oil Province, an area in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended Series E Preferred Stock Series E Non-Voting, Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share STACK Sooner Trend Anadarko Canadian Kingfisher, an area in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma Tax Cuts and Jobs Act H.R. 1, the tax reform bill, signed into law on December 22, 2017 Topic 606 Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers West Texas LPG West Texas LPG pipeline and Mesquite pipeline WTI West Texas Intermediate WTLPG West Texas LPG Pipeline Limited Partnership XBRL eXtensible Business Reporting Language The statements in this Annual Report that are not historical information, including statements concerning plans and objectives of management for future operations, economic performance or related assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, intend, may, might, outlook, plan, potential, project, scheduled, should, will, would and other words and terms of similar meaning. Although we believe that our expectations regarding future events are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that such expectations or assumptions will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are described under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Forward-Looking Statements, in this Annual Report. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL We are incorporated under the laws of the state of Oklahoma, and our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol OKE. We are a leading midstream service provider and own one of the nation s premier NGL systems, connecting NGL supply in the Rocky Mountain, Permian and Mid-Continent regions with key market centers and an extensive network of natural gas gathering, processing, storage and transportation assets. We apply our core capabilities of gathering, processing, fractionating, transporting, storing and marketing natural gas and NGLs through vertical integration across the midstream value chain to provide our customers with premium services while generating consistent and sustainable earnings growth. Midstream Value Chain Legend We are connected to supply in natural gas and NGL producing basins and have significant basin diversification, including the Williston, Permian, Powder River and DJ Basins and the STACK and SCOOP areas. In our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment, we have more than 3 million dedicated acres in the Williston Basin and approximately 300,000 dedicated acres in the STACK and SCOOP areas. In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, we are the largest NGL takeaway provider in the Williston Basin; Oklahoma, including the STACK and SCOOP areas; Kansas; and the Texas Panhandle. We also have a significant presence in the Permian Basin. Natural Gas Gathering Processing Natural Gas Liquids Natural Gas Pipelines Raw natural gas is typically gathered at the wellhead, compressed and transported through pipelines to our processing facilities. Most raw natural gas produced at the wellhead contains a mixture of NGL components, such as ethane, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline, which remain in a mixed unfractionated form. Once processed, residue natural gas is recompressed and delivered to intrastate and interstate natural gas pipelines. Gathered wellhead natural gas is directed to our processing plants to remove NGLs, resulting in residue natural gas (primarily methane). NGLs extracted at processing plants, both third-party and our own, are then gathered by our NGL gathering pipelines. Gathered NGLs are directed to our downstream fractionators in the Mid-Continent region and Mont Belvieu, Texas, to be separated into purity products. Residue natural gas is transported to storage facilities and end-users, such as large industrial customers, natural gas and electric utilities serving commercial and residential consumers, and international markets through liquefied natural gas exports. Purity products are stored or distributed to our customers, such as petrochemical companies, propane distributors, heating fuel users, ethanol producers, refineries and exporters. 5 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Business Update and Market Conditions - We operate primarily fee-based businesses in each of our three reportable segments, and our consolidated earnings were approximately 90% fee-based in 2019. Volumes increased across our system in our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing and Natural Gas Liquids segments in 2019, compared with 2018, as a result of our completed capital-growth projects, continued drilling and producer improvements in production due to enhanced completion techniques, offset partially by natural production declines. Since the beginning of 2018, we have completed several capital-growth projects that include NGL pipelines, NGL fractionators, natural gas processing plants and related natural gas and NGL infrastructure, and expect capital expenditures to decrease in 2020 and 2021, compared with 2019. Our NGL projects in the Gulf Coast allow flexibility to add NGL fractionators, NGL storage and, potentially, new export facilities in the future. We expect these projects to meet the needs of producers, natural gas processors and the petrochemical industry that require additional midstream infrastructure to accommodate increasing supply and demand. We experienced fluctuating NGL location price differentials due to increased supply, increased demand in the Mid-Continent region, infrastructure constraints and slower demand growth in the Gulf Coast due primarily to delays in the startup of petrochemical facilities and constrained NGL export facilities. The Conway-to-Mont Belvieu OPIS price differential for ethane in ethane/propane mix averaged $0.07 per gallon in 2019, compared with $0.15 per gallon in 2018, which resulted in lower earnings from our optimization and marketing activities in our Natural Gas Liquids segment. We expect narrower NGL location price differentials in 2020. Rocky Mountain Region - We expect to benefit from increased production in this region, which includes the Williston, Powder River and DJ Basins. In our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment, gathered and processed volumes increased in 2019, compared with 2018, due primarily to our capital-growth projects, new well connections and increased producer productivity. Our Demicks Lake I natural gas processing plant was placed in service in October 2019, and we expect it to reach its 200 MMcf/d capacity in the first quarter 2020 due to natural gas flaring by producers on our more than 3 million dedicated acres in the Williston Basin. In addition, we completed construction of our Demicks Lake II natural gas processing plant in January 2020. With continued volume growth expected, we are in the process of expanding our Bear Creek plant by 200 MMcf/d, which is expected to be completed in first quarter 2021, and recently announced plans to construct our Demicks Lake III natural gas processing plant, with capacity of 200 MMcf/d and expected completion in the third quarter 2021. Upon completion of these projects, our total processing capacity will be approximately 1.9 Bcf/d in the Williston Basin and is expected to help producers meet North Dakota s natural gas capture targets and add incremental NGLs to our NGL gathering system. In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, we announced the completion of our Elk Creek pipeline in December 2019. We are the largest NGL takeaway provider and expect our NGL pipelines to transport more than 240 MBbl/d of NGLs out of this region by the end of the first quarter 2020 due to a combination of growth in volumes from our new and existing processing plants, third-party processing plants and volumes previously transported by rail. In addition, we recently announced an expansion of our Elk Creek pipeline to 400 MBbl/d by adding additional pump stations. The project is expected to be fully completed in the third quarter 2021, with a portion of this incremental capacity available as early as first quarter 2021. In April 2019, we announced a project to extend our Bakken NGL pipeline into an area of the Williston Basin with limited access to NGL pipeline takeaway capacity. This project will provide connectivity for third-party processing plants to key NGL market centers as well as provide additional volumes to our Elk Creek pipeline. To accommodate expected volumes, we are also expanding our Mid-Continent NGL fractionation facilities by 65 MBbl/d and constructing an extension of our Arbuckle II pipeline farther north. Mid-Continent Region - In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, we are the largest NGL takeaway provider in the STACK and SCOOP areas where volumes continued to increase in 2019, compared with 2018. We expect continued demand for our services from producers that need takeaway capacity for natural gas and NGLs out of this region. In our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment, natural gas gathered and processed volumes increased in this region in 2019, compared with 2018, due primarily to new well connections. We expect volumes in this region to decline modestly in 2020, compared with 2019. Our Natural Gas Pipelines segment transports natural gas from more than 35 natural gas processing plants in Oklahoma. We completed pipeline expansions to provide increased westbound transportation services from the STACK area to multiple interstate pipeline delivery points in western Oklahoma and a 150 MMcf/d eastbound expansion from the STACK and SCOOP areas to an eastern Oklahoma interstate pipeline delivery point. Permian Basin - We expect our Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas Pipelines business segments to continue to benefit from increased production in the Permian Basin from the highly productive Delaware and Midland Basins. In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, we are well-positioned in the Permian Basin through our West Texas LPG pipeline system. Due to our 6 Table of Contents expansion of the system in the third quarter 2018 and new plant connections, volumes increased in 2019, compared with 2018. We expect volumes to continue to increase on our West Texas LPG pipeline system as our previously announced second and third expansions are completed, which will increase the mainline capacity out of the Permian Basin by 80 MBbl/d in the first quarter 2020 and 40 MBbl/d in the first quarter 2021, respectively, as well as connect our West Texas LPG pipeline with our Arbuckle II pipeline in north Texas. In addition, we recently announced the fourth expansion of our West Texas LPG pipeline system by 100 MBbl/d, which is expected to be completed in the second quarter 2021. These projects are expected to position our West Texas LPG pipeline system for significant NGL volume growth and are backed by long-term acreage and/or plant dedications. In our Natural Gas Pipelines segment, our Roadrunner joint venture and our WesTex pipeline are well-positioned to serve growth in the Permian Basin. The Roadrunner pipeline connects with our existing natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure in Texas and, together with our completed WesTex intrastate natural gas pipeline expansion project, creates future opportunities for us to deliver natural gas to Mexico and transport natural gas to other markets in the region. Gulf Coast - Demand for NGLs is expected to increase at the Mont Belvieu, Texas, NGL market center as new world-scale ethylene production projects, petrochemical plant expansions and NGL export facilities continue to be completed. We are constructing our Arbuckle II pipeline to support expected supply growth and transport NGLs to the Gulf Coast market center and have announced an expansion of our Arbuckle II pipeline to a total capacity of 500 MBbl/d. NGL supply growth and other new NGL pipelines recently completed or being constructed, including our Elk Creek and West Texas LPG pipeline projects, are increasing NGL deliveries to Mont Belvieu, Texas. While we have significant NGL fractionation and storage assets in this area, additional capacity is needed to accommodate expected volume growth. To respond to this need, we are constructing two additional 125 MBbl/d fractionators with related infrastructure in Mont Belvieu, Texas, MB-4 and MB-5, which are both fully contracted. In December 2019, we completed construction of 75 MBbl/d of the MB-4 capacity, with the remaining 50 MBbl/d to be completed in the first quarter 2020, and MB-5 is expected to be completed in the first quarter 2021. Following the completion of MB-4 and MB-5, we expect our NGL fractionation capacity to be approximately 600 MBbl/d in the Gulf Coast and more than 1 MMBbl/d across our entire system. Our MB-5 project also includes system expansions that provide infrastructure capacity to support additional assets as we continue to evaluate opportunities for fractionation, storage and, potentially, export facilities to meet the supply and demand for NGLs. See Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report for more information on our growth projects, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. BUSINESS STRATEGY Our primary business strategy is to maintain prudent financial strength and flexibility while growing our fee-based earnings and dividends per share with a focus on safe, reliable, environmentally responsible, legally compliant and sustainable operations for our customers, employees, contractors and the public through the following: Operate in a safe, reliable, environmentally responsible and sustainable manner - environmental, safety and health continues to be a primary focus for us, and our emphasis on personal and process safety has produced improvements in the key indicators we track. We also continue to look for ways to reduce our environmental impact by conserving resources and utilizing more efficient technologies. In 2019, we were added to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, which recognizes companies for industry-leading environmental, social and governance performance; Pursue organic investments in our existing operating regions to support earnings growth - we expect our investment in capital projects to create stable earnings growth that positions us to grow our dividend. In 2019, we paid dividends of $3.53 per share, an increase of 9% compared with the prior year. Our dividend increase and expected future dividend growth is due primarily to earnings growth from capital projects; Manage our balance sheet and maintain investment-grade credit ratings - we seek to maintain investment-grade credit ratings, fund capital-growth projects and begin to pay down debt. We expect to benefit from increasing cash flows from operations in 2020, which we expect to reduce leverage and fund capital-growth projects. At December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement, $220 million of commercial paper outstanding and $21 million of cash and cash equivalents; and Attract, select, develop, motivate, challenge and retain a diverse group of employees to support strategy execution - we continue to execute on our recruiting strategy that targets professional and field personnel in our operating areas. We also continue to focus on employee development efforts with our current employees and monitor our benefits and compensation package to remain competitive. 7 Table of Contents NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS We report operations in the following business segments: Natural Gas Gathering and Processing; Natural Gas Liquids; and Natural Gas Pipelines. Natural Gas Gathering and Processing Overview - Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment provides midstream services to producers in North Dakota, Montana, Wyoming, Kansas and Oklahoma. Rocky Mountain region - The Williston Basin is located in portions of North Dakota and Montana and includes the oil-producing, NGL-rich Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, and is an active drilling region. Our completed capital-growth projects in the Williston Basin have increased our gathering and processing capacity and allow us to capture increased natural gas production from new wells and previously flared natural gas production. The Powder River Basin is primarily located in Wyoming, which includes the NGL-rich Niobrara Shale and Frontier, Turner and Sussex formations where we provide gathering and processing services to customers in the eastern portion of Wyoming. Mid-Continent region - The Mid-Continent region is an active drilling region and includes the oil-producing, NGL-rich STACK and SCOOP areas and the Cana-Woodford Shale, Woodford Shale, Springer Shale, Meramec, Granite Wash and Mississippian Lime formations of Oklahoma and Kansas, and the Hugoton and Central Kansas Uplift Basins of Kansas. Property - Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment owns the following assets: 18,900 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines; ten natural gas processing plants with 1.0 Bcf/d of processing capacity in the Mid-Continent region, and 12 natural gas processing plants with 1.5 Bcf/d of processing capacity in the Rocky Mountain region; and 14 MBbl/d of NGL fractionation capacity at various natural gas processing plants. 8 Table of Contents In addition, we have access to up to 200 MMcf/d of processing capacity in the Mid-Continent region through a long-term processing services agreement with an unaffiliated third party. We are in the process of expanding our Bear Creek plant by 200 MMcf/d and recently announced plans to construct our Demicks Lake III natural gas processing plant, with capacity of 200 MMcf/d, in the core of the Williston Basin. The additional capacity from these projects is excluded from the assets listed above. See Recent Developments in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report for more information on our growth projects. Sources of Earnings - Earnings for this segment are derived primarily from the following types of service contracts: POP with fee contracts with no producer take-in-kind rights - We purchase raw natural gas and charge contractual fees for providing midstream services, which include gathering, treating, compressing and processing the producer s natural gas. After performing these services, we sell the commodities and remit a portion of the commodity sales proceeds to the producer less our contractual fees. This type of contract represented 63% and 60% of supply volumes in this segment for 2019 and 2018, respectively. POP with fee contracts with producer take-in-kind rights - We purchase a portion of the raw natural gas stream, charge fees for providing the midstream services listed above, return primarily the residue natural gas to the producer, sell the remaining commodities and remit a portion of the commodity sales proceeds to the producer less our contractual fees. This type of contract represented 33% and 36% of supply volumes in this segment for 2019 and 2018, respectively. Fee-only - Under this type of contract, we charge a fee for the midstream services we provide, based on volumes gathered, processed, treated and/or compressed. Our fee-only contracts represented 4% of supply volumes in this segment in 2019 and 2018. For commodity sales, we contract to deliver residue natural gas, condensate and/or unfractionated NGLs to downstream customers at a specified delivery point. Our sales of NGLs are primarily to our affiliate in the Natural Gas Liquids segment. Utilization - The utilization rates for our natural gas processing plants were 84% and 83% for 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We calculate utilization rates using a weighted-average approach, adjusting for the dates that assets were placed in service. Unconsolidated Affiliates - Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment includes the following unconsolidated affiliates: 49% ownership interest in Bighorn Gas Gathering, which gathers dry natural gas produced in the Powder River Basin; 42.6% ownership interest in Fort Union Gas Gathering, which gathers dry natural gas produced in the Powder River Basin and delivers it to the interstate pipeline system; 35% ownership interest in Lost Creek Gathering Company, which gathers natural gas produced from conventional dry natural gas wells in the Wind River Basin of central Wyoming and delivers it to the interstate pipeline system; and 10.2% ownership interest in Venice Energy Services Co., a natural gas processing facility near Venice, Louisiana. See Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of our unconsolidated affiliates. Government Regulation - The FERC traditionally has maintained that a natural gas processing plant is not a facility for the transportation or sale of natural gas in interstate commerce and, therefore, is not subject to jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act. Although the FERC has made no specific declaration as to the jurisdictional status of our natural gas processing operations or facilities, our natural gas processing plants are primarily involved in extracting NGLs and, therefore, are exempt from FERC jurisdiction. The Natural Gas Act also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC. We believe our natural gas gathering facilities and operations meet the criteria used by the FERC for nonjurisdictional natural gas gathering facility status. Interstate transmission facilities remain subject to FERC jurisdiction. The FERC has historically distinguished between these two types of facilities, either interstate or intrastate, on a fact-specific basis. We transport residue natural gas from certain of our natural gas processing plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota also have statutes regulating, to varying degrees, the gathering of natural gas in those states. In each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory agency. See further discussion in the Regulatory, Environmental and Safety Matters section. 9 Table of Contents Natural Gas Liquids Overview - Our Natural Gas Liquids segment owns and operates facilities that gather, fractionate, treat and distribute NGLs and store NGL products, primarily in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, New Mexico and the Rocky Mountain region, which includes the Williston, Powder River and DJ Basins. We provide midstream services to producers of NGLs and deliver those products to the two primary market centers: one in the Mid-Continent in Conway, Kansas, and the other in the Gulf Coast in Mont Belvieu, Texas. We own or have an ownership interest in FERC-regulated NGL gathering and distribution pipelines in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, New Mexico, Montana, North Dakota, Wyoming and Colorado, and terminal and storage facilities in Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois. The majority of the pipeline-connected natural gas processing plants in the Williston Basin, Oklahoma, Kansas and the Texas Panhandle are connected to our NGL gathering systems. We own and operate truck- and rail-loading and -unloading facilities connected to our NGL fractionation and pipeline assets. We also own FERC-regulated NGL distribution pipelines in Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois and Indiana that connect our Mid-Continent assets with Midwest markets, including Chicago, Illinois. A portion of our ONEOK North System transports refined petroleum products, including unleaded gasoline and diesel, from Kansas to Iowa. Property - Our Natural Gas Liquids segment owns the following assets: 8,380 miles of gathering pipelines with peak capacity of 1,820 MBbl/d, including 5,550 miles of FERC-regulated pipelines with peak capacity of 920 MBbl/d; 4,490 miles of distribution pipelines with peak capacity of 1,400 MBbl/d, including 4,460 miles of FERC-regulated pipelines with peak capacity of 1,360 MBbl/d; eight NGL fractionators with combined operating capacity of 870 MBbl/d (includes interests in our proportional share of operating capacity), including 520 MBbl/d in the Mid-Continent region and 350 MBbl/d in the Gulf Coast region; one isomerization unit with operating capacity of 10 MBbl/d; one ethane/propane splitter with operating capacity of 40 MBbl/d; six NGL storage facilities with operating storage capacity of 20 MMBbl; and eight NGL product terminals. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we lease 10 MMBbl of annual pipeline capacity near our ONEOK North System and have access to 5 MMBbl of combined NGL storage capacity at facilities in Kansas and Texas and 60 MBbl/d of NGL fractionation capacity in the Gulf Coast through service agreements. Our uncompleted growth projects are excluded from the assets listed above and include: gathering pipelines, including expansions, with combined operating capacity of 880 MBbl/d; the MB-5 fractionator in the Gulf Coast with operating capacity of 125 MBbl/d; remaining fractionation capacity on the 