Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 35 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. [Reserved] 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 100 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 100 Item 9B. Other Information 100 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 100 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 101 Item 11. Executive Compensation 101 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 102 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 102 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 103 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 110 Signatures 111 As used in this Annual Report, references to we, our, or us refer to ONEOK, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation, and its predecessors and subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. 2 Table of Cont ents GLOSSARY The abbreviations, acronyms and industry terminology used in this Annual Report are defined as follows: $1.5 Billion Term Loan Agreement The senior unsecured delayed-draw three-year $1.5 billion term loan agreement dated November 19, 2018 $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement ONEOK s $2.5 billion revolving credit agreement, as amended AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction Annual Report Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 ASU Accounting Standards Update Bbl Barrels, 1 barrel is equivalent to 42 United States gallons BBtu/d Billion British thermal units per day Bcf Billion cubic feet Bcf/d Billion cubic feet per day Btu British thermal unit CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Clean Air Act Federal Clean Air Act, as amended Clean Water Act Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, as amended COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019, including variants thereof DJ Denver-Julesburg DOT United States Department of Transportation EBITDA Earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency EPS Earnings per share of common stock ESG Environmental, social and governance Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings, Inc. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America Guardian Pipeline Guardian Pipeline, L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK, Inc. GHG Greenhouse gas Homeland Security United States Department of Homeland Security ICE Intercontinental Exchange Intermediate Partnership ONEOK Partners Intermediate Limited Partnership, a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK Partners, L.P. KCC Kansas Corporation Commission LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate MBbl/d Thousand barrels per day MDth/d Thousand dekatherms per day MMBbl Million barrels MMBbl/d Million barrels per day MMBtu Million British thermal units MMcf/d Million cubic feet per day Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. Natural Gas Act Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended Natural Gas Policy Act Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended NGL(s) Natural gas liquid(s) NGL products Marketable natural gas liquid purity products, such as ethane, ethane/propane mix, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline Northern Border Pipeline Northern Border Pipeline Company, a 50% owned joint venture NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange OCC Oklahoma Corporation Commission ONEOK ONEOK, Inc. ONEOK Partners ONEOK Partners, L.P., a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK, Inc. 3 Table of Cont ents OPIS Oil Price Information Service Overland Pass Pipeline Overland Pass Pipeline Company, LLC, a 50% owned joint venture PHMSA United States Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration POP Percent of Proceeds Quarterly Report(s) Quarterly Report(s) on Form 10-Q Roadrunner Roadrunner Gas Transmission, LLC, a 50% owned joint venture RRC Railroad Commission of Texas S P S P Global Ratings SCOOP South Central Oklahoma Oil Province, an area in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended Series E Preferred Stock Series E Non-Voting, Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate STACK Sooner Trend Anadarko Canadian Kingfisher, an area in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma WTI West Texas Intermediate XBRL eXtensible Business Reporting Language The statements in this Annual Report that are not historical information, including statements concerning plans and objectives of management for future operations, economic performance or related assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, target, guidance, intend, may, might, outlook, plan, potential, project, scheduled, should, will, would and other words and terms of similar meaning. Although we believe that our expectations regarding future events are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that such expectations or assumptions will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are described under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Forward-Looking Statements, in this Annual Report. 4 Table of Cont ents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL We are incorporated under the laws of the state of Oklahoma, and our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol OKE. We are a leading midstream service provider and own one of the nation s premier NGL systems, connecting NGL supply in the Rocky Mountain, Permian and Mid-Continent regions with key market centers and own an extensive network of natural gas gathering, processing, storage and transportation assets. We apply our core capabilities of gathering, processing, fractionating, transporting, storing and marketing natural gas and NGLs through vertical integration across the midstream value chain to provide our customers with premium services while generating consistent and sustainable earnings growth. Midstream Value Chain Legend We are connected to supply in natural gas and NGL producing basins and have significant basin diversification, including the Williston, Permian, Powder River and DJ Basins and the STACK and SCOOP areas. In our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment, we have more than 3 million dedicated acres in the Williston Basin and approximately 300,000 dedicated acres in the STACK and SCOOP areas. In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, we are the largest NGL takeaway provider in the Williston and Powder River Basins; Oklahoma, including the STACK and SCOOP areas; Kansas; and the Texas Panhandle. We also have a significant presence in the Permian Basin. Natural Gas Gathering Processing Natural Gas Liquids Natural Gas Pipelines Raw natural gas is typically gathered at the wellhead, compressed and transported through pipelines to our processing facilities. Most raw natural gas produced at the wellhead also contains a mixture of NGL components, including ethane, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline. Gathered wellhead natural gas is directed to our processing plants to remove NGLs, resulting in residue natural gas (primarily methane). Once processed, residue natural gas is recompressed and delivered to intrastate and interstate natural gas pipelines primarily in our Natural Gas Pipelines segment. NGLs extracted at processing plants, both third-party and our own, are then gathered by our NGL gathering pipelines. Gathered NGLs are directed to our downstream fractionators in the Mid-Continent region and Mont Belvieu, Texas, to be separated into purity products. Residue natural gas is transported to storage facilities and end users, such as large industrial customers, natural gas and electric utilities serving commercial and residential consumers, and international markets through liquefied natural gas exports and cross-border pipelines. Purity products are stored or distributed to our customers, such as petrochemical companies, propane distributors, heating fuel users, ethanol producers, refineries and exporters. 5 Table of Cont ents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Business Update and Market Conditions - We experienced earnings growth from increased volumes in 2021, compared with 2020, due primarily to increased producer activity and rising gas-to-oil ratios in the Rocky Mountain region, production curtailments in 2020, increased ethane production in the Rocky Mountain region and higher commodity prices, in both our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing and Natural Gas Liquids segments, highlighting both the resiliency of our integrated assets and the economic recovery from the pandemic. We expect volumes to increase in 2022 due to continued increases in producer activity, continued rising gas-to-oil ratios in the Rocky Mountain region, the recent completion of our Bear Creek plant expansion and increased ethane demand from the petrochemical industry. Although the energy industry has experienced many up and down cycles, we have positioned ourselves to reduce exposure to direct commodity price volatility. Each of our three segments are primarily fee-based, and our consolidated earnings were approximately 90% fee-based in 2021. While our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment s earnings are primarily fee-based, we have direct commodity price exposure related primarily to fee with POP contracts. In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, we are primarily exposed to commodity price risk resulting from the relative values of the various NGL products to each other, the value of NGLs in storage and the relative value of NGLs to natural gas. In addition, our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing and Natural Gas Liquids segments are exposed to volumetric risk as a result of drilling and completion activity, normal volumetric well decline, severe weather disruption, operational outages and crude oil, NGL and natural gas demand. Our Natural Gas Pipelines segment is not exposed to significant volumetric risk due to nearly all of our capacity being subscribed under long-term firm fee-based contracts. In the first quarter 2021, Winter Storm Uri brought significant challenges to the energy industry and our operating areas. Our employees were proactive in preparing for the severe winter weather, made the necessary adjustments to keep our assets operational and provided exceptional service to meet the needs of our customers during the difficult weather conditions. Increased demand for natural gas, propane and electricity, coupled with supply reductions from producer wellhead freeze-offs and power outages impacting processing plants in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions and the Permian Basin and fractionators in the Mid-Continent region, resulted in high commodity prices at certain market hubs, particularly in the Mid-Continent region and in Texas. Commodity prices quickly returned to previous levels as the weather improved and natural gas supply returned. Winter Storm Uri impacted all three of our operating segments, resulting in a net positive impact to our financial results, primarily in the first quarter 2021, as our ability to meet increased demand for natural gas and to provide services during the period offset the unfavorable volume impacts and higher electricity costs. Our well-positioned natural gas storage assets and market connected pipelines in our Natural Gas Pipelines segment were able to meet critical needs during this period of severe winter weather. The reliability of our interstate and intrastate assets, including storage, enabled us to continue to provide our customers access to transportation services, park-and-loan services and additional natural gas supply, if available, which improved our financial results. However, this was partially offset by producer wellhead freeze-offs, which reduced February volumes in our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing and Natural Gas Liquids segments. As we continue to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic, we remain committed to managing the impact of the pandemic on our employees. We continue to protect our workforce and, as always, we remain focused on operating our assets safely, reliably and in an environmentally responsible manner. ONEOK is a critical infrastructure business as defined by Homeland Security and, therefore, our workforce has remained fully engaged within federal, state and local government issued guidelines and safety-related ordinances. We began implementing our return to office plan in early 2022, and we will continue to take safety precautions for our employees who work in the field or report to a ONEOK facility. We continue to apply risk-management and cybersecurity measures designed so that our systems remain functional in order to both serve our operational needs and to provide service to our customers. See Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, in this Annual Report for more information on our exposure to market risk. Sustainability and Social Responsibility - In 2021 and 2022, we qualified for inclusion in the S P Global Sustainability Yearbook . In addition, we received a perfect score of 100 in the Human Rights Campaign 2021 Corporate Equality Index, were upgraded from A to AA at MSCI Inc. ESG ratings, were named a Top 100 U.S. Companies Supporting Healthy Communities and Families, were listed as one of America s Most Responsible Companies for 2022 by Newsweek and were ranked in the top 10% in the Refiners and Pipelines industry group in Sustainalytics ESG Risk Ranking. We continue to look for ways to reduce our environmental impact and utilize more efficient technologies. We have an environmental sustainability team that accelerated our ongoing environmental stewardship efforts and is exploring ways to lower our GHG emissions even further. We are dedicated to the evaluation and development of renewable energy and low-carbon projects and are actively 6 Table of Cont ents researching opportunities that will complement our extensive midstream assets and expertise, strengthening the role we expect to play in the transformation to a lower-carbon economy. In September 2021, we announced a 30% absolute GHG emissions reduction target, or 2.2 million metric tons, of our combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2030, compared with 2019 base-year levels. Scope 1 and 2 emissions represent our total operational emissions, including direct emissions from sources we operate and indirect emissions from the generation of purchased power. We anticipate several potential pathways toward achieving our emissions reduction target, which could include the electrification of certain natural gas compression assets across our operations, methane mitigation through best management practices and system optimizations. Additionally, we are identifying potential opportunities to collaborate with utilities and power generators to accelerate the availability of lower-carbon power options across our operations. We will maintain a disciplined capital approach and will continue to discuss our total capital expenditures and provide our expected total capital spend annually in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this, and future, Annual Reports. Natural Gas - In our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment, gathered and processed volumes in the Rocky Mountain region increased in 2021, compared with 2020, due primarily to increased producer activity, rising gas-to-oil ratios and the impact of curtailed production in 2020. In November 2021, we announced the completion of our Bear Creek plant expansion, which increased our total processing capacity to approximately 1.7 Bcf/d in the Williston Basin. In addition, as we expect to continue to benefit from increased producer activity and continued rising gas-to-oil ratios in the Rocky Mountain region, we recently announced plans to restart construction on our 200 MMcf/d Demicks Lake III natural gas processing plant. Upon completion of Demicks Lake III, which is expected in the first quarter 2023, our total processing capacity will be approximately 1.9 Bcf/d in the Williston Basin. In the Mid-Continent region, we are experiencing increased producer drilling activity in 2022 in the SCOOP and STACK areas. In our Natural Gas Pipelines segment, our assets are connected to key supply areas and demand centers, including export markets in Mexico via Roadrunner and supply areas in Canada and the United States via our interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines and Northern Border Pipeline, which enable us to provide essential natural gas transportation and storage services. Continued demand from local distribution companies, electric-generation facilities and large industrial companies resulted in low-cost expansions that position us well to provide additional services to our customers when needed. Our ability to provide reliable service throughout the extreme weather conditions of Winter Storm Uri highlighted the importance of market-connected pipelines and storage assets and the value of these services. In addition, during the first quarter 2021, we sold natural gas that we owned and held in storage, which benefited our segment s financial results. We continue to monitor market conditions and sell our natural gas in storage during favorable market conditions. During the extreme winter weather periods, we maximized natural gas storage withdrawals for firm service customers serving critical needs. NGLs - In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, NGL volumes increased in 2021, compared with 2020, due primarily to increased production in the Rocky Mountain region, Mid-Continent region and Permian Basin, increased ethane production in the Rocky Mountain region and the impact of curtailed production across our system in 2020, offset partially by the impact of Winter Storm Uri in 2021 and lower volumes in the Barnett Shale. In response to increased producer activity and the expected increased demand for ethane as two new petrochemical plants come online in 2022, we recently announced plans to restart construction on our 125 MBbl/d MB-5 fractionator in Mont Belvieu, Texas, which is fully contracted. MB-5 is expected to be completed in the third quarter 2023 and will increase our NGL fractionation capacity to more than 1 MMBbl/d across our entire system. See Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report for more information on our growth projects, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. BUSINESS STRATEGY Our mission is to deliver energy products and services vital to an advancing world. Our vision is to create exceptional value for our stakeholders by providing solutions for a transforming energy future. Our business strategy is focused on: Zero incidents - we commit to a zero-incident culture for the well-being of our employees, contractors and communities. Safety and environmental responsibility continue to be a primary focus for us, and our emphasis on personal and process safety has produced improving trends in the key indicators we track. Highly engaged workforce - we strive to be an employer of choice and continue to focus on attracting, selecting and retaining talent, advancing an inclusive, diverse and engaged culture and developing individuals and leaders. Sustainable business model - we aim to maintain prudent financial strength and flexibility while operating a safe, reliable and resilient asset base. We seek to maintain investment-grade credit ratings and a strong balance sheet. We 7 Table of Cont ents believe our internally generated cash flows will allow us to fund capital-growth projects in our existing operating regions and to provide value-added products and services that contribute to long-term growth, profitability and business diversification. We continue to actively research opportunities that will complement our extensive midstream assets and expertise, strengthening the role we expect to play in the transformation to a lower-carbon economy. Maximizing total shareholder return - we plan to grow earnings and sustain our dividend by efficiently allocating capital to investments that produce returns above our cost of capital. Producing consistent and strong returns on invested capital will allow us to not only reward our shareholders, but also provide the means and opportunity to serve our additional stakeholders, including employees, communities and the environment. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS We report operations in the following business segments: Natural Gas Gathering and Processing; Natural Gas Liquids; and Natural Gas Pipelines. Natural Gas Gathering and Processing Overview - Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment provides midstream services to producers in North Dakota, Montana, Wyoming, Kansas and Oklahoma. Rocky Mountain region - The Williston Basin is located in portions of North Dakota and Montana and includes the oil-producing, NGL-rich Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations. Our recently completed Bear Creek plant expansion increased our gathering and processing total capacity to approximately 1.7 Bcf/d and will enable us to capture expected natural gas production from new wells. 8 Table of Cont ents The Powder River Basin is primarily located in Wyoming, which includes the NGL-rich Niobrara Shale and Frontier, Turner and Sussex formations where we provide gathering and processing services to customers in the eastern portion of Wyoming. Mid-Continent region - The Mid-Continent region includes the oil-producing, NGL-rich STACK and SCOOP areas and the Cana-Woodford Shale, Woodford Shale, Springer Shale, Meramec, Granite Wash and Mississippian Lime formations of Oklahoma and Kansas, and the Hugoton Basin. Property - Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment includes the following assets: 17,500 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines; 13 natural gas processing plants with 1.7 Bcf/d of processing capacity in the Rocky Mountain region, and nine natural gas processing plants with 0.9 Bcf/d of processing capacity in the Mid-Continent region, and up to 150 MMcf/d of processing capacity in the Mid-Continent region through a long-term processing services agreement with an unaffiliated third party; and 14 MBbl/d of NGL fractionation capacity and 26 MBbl/d of de-ethanizer capacity at various natural gas processing plants. We are in the process of constructing our 200 MMcf/d Demicks Lake III natural gas processing plant in the Williston Basin, which is not included in the assets listed above. See Recent Developments in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report for more information on our growth projects. Sources of Earnings - Earnings for this segment are derived primarily from the following types of service contracts: Fee with POP contracts with no producer take-in-kind rights - We purchase raw natural gas and charge contractual fees for providing midstream services, which include gathering, treating, compressing and processing the producer s natural gas. After performing these services, we sell the commodities and remit a portion of the commodity sales proceeds to the producer less our contractual fees. Fee with POP contracts with producer take-in-kind rights - We purchase a portion of the raw natural gas stream, charge fees for providing the midstream services listed above, return primarily the residue natural gas to the producer, sell the remaining commodities and remit a portion of the commodity sales proceeds to the producer less our contractual fees. Fee-only - Under this type of contract, we charge a fee for the midstream services we provide, based on volumes gathered, processed, treated and/or compressed. 9 Table of Cont ents For commodity sales, we contract to deliver residue natural gas, condensate and/or unfractionated NGLs to downstream customers at a specified delivery point. Our sales of NGLs are primarily to our affiliate in the Natural Gas Liquids segment. Utilization - The utilization rates for our natural gas processing plants were 69% and 66% for 2021 and 2020, respectively, which includes 81% and 70% in the Rocky Mountain region for 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our utilization rates in the Rocky Mountain region increased in 2021 due primarily to increased producer activity, rising gas-to-oil ratios and the impact of curtailed production in 2020. Our 2021 utilization rates include the impact of capacity made available by our Demicks Lake II processing plant and Bear Creek plant expansion. We calculate utilization rates using a weighted-average approach, adjusting for the dates that assets were placed in or removed from service. Unconsolidated Affiliates - Our unconsolidated affiliates in this segment are not material. See Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of our unconsolidated affiliates. Government Regulation - The FERC traditionally has maintained that a natural gas processing plant is not a facility for the transportation or sale of natural gas in interstate commerce and, therefore, is not subject to jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act. Although the FERC has made no specific declaration as to the jurisdictional status of our natural gas processing operations or facilities, our natural gas processing plants are primarily involved in extracting NGLs and, therefore, are exempt from FERC jurisdiction. The Natural Gas Act also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC. We believe our natural gas gathering facilities upstream of our natural gas processing plants meet the criteria used by the FERC for nonjurisdictional natural gas gathering facility status. Interstate transmission facilities remain subject to FERC jurisdiction. The FERC has historically distinguished between these two types of facilities, either interstate or intrastate, on a fact-specific basis. We transport residue natural gas from certain of our natural gas processing plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota also have statutes regulating, to varying degrees, the gathering of natural gas in those states. In each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory agency. See further discussion in the Regulatory, Environmental and Safety Matters section. Natural Gas Liquids Overview - Our Natural Gas Liquids segment owns and operates facilities that gather, fractionate, treat and distribute NGLs and store NGL products, primarily in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, New Mexico and the Rocky Mountain region, which includes the Williston, Powder River and DJ Basins. We provide midstream services to producers of NGLs and deliver those products to the two primary market centers: one in the Mid-Continent in Conway, Kansas, and the other in the Gulf Coast in Mont Belvieu, Texas. We own or have an ownership interest in FERC-regulated NGL gathering and distribution pipelines in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, New Mexico, Montana, North Dakota, Wyoming and Colorado, and terminal and storage facilities in Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois. We have a 50% ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company, which operates an interstate NGL pipeline originating in Wyoming and Colorado and terminating in Kansas. The majority of the pipeline-connected natural gas processing plants in the Williston Basin, Oklahoma, Kansas and the Texas Panhandle are connected to our NGL gathering systems. We lease rail cars and own and operate truck- and rail-loading and -unloading facilities connected to our NGL fractionation, storage and pipeline assets. We also own FERC-regulated NGL distribution pipelines in Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois and Indiana that connect our Mid-Continent assets with Midwest markets, including Chicago, Illinois. A portion of our ONEOK North System transports refined petroleum products, including unleaded gasoline and diesel, from Kansas to Iowa. 10 Table of Cont ents Property - Our Natural Gas Liquids segment includes the following assets: 9,120 miles of gathering pipelines with operating capacity of 1,790 MBbl/d, including 6,330 miles of FERC-regulated pipelines with operating capacity of 1,490 MBbl/d; 4,350 miles of distribution pipelines with operating capacity of 1,150 MBbl/d, including 4,180 miles of FERC-regulated pipelines with operating capacity of 1,080 MBbl/d; eight NGL fractionators with combined operating capacity of 920 MBbl/d (includes interests in our proportional share of operating capacity), including 520 MBbl/d in the Mid-Continent region and 400 MBbl/d in the Gulf Coast region; one isomerization unit with operating capacity of 10 MBbl/d; one ethane/propane splitter with operating capacity of 40 MBbl/d; six NGL storage facilities with operating storage capacity of 30 MMBbl; and eight N