Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 40 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 40 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 40 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 Item 6. [Reserved] 42 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 104 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 104 Item 9B. Other Information 105 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 105 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 105 Item 11. Executive Compensation 106 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 106 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 106 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 107 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 107 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117 Signatures 118 As used in this Annual Report, references to we, our, or us refer to ONEOK, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation, and its predecessors and subsidiaries, including Magellan, unless the context indicates otherwise. 2 T able of Contents GLOSSARY The abbreviations, acronyms and industry terminology used in this Annual Report are defined as follows: $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement ONEOK s $2.5 billion amended and restated revolving credit agreement, as amended AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction Annual Report Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 ASU Accounting Standards Update Bbl Barrels, 1 barrel is equivalent to 42 United States gallons BBtu/d Billion British thermal units per day Bcf Billion cubic feet Bcf/d Billion cubic feet per day Btu British thermal unit BridgeTex BridgeTex Pipeline Company, LLC, a 30% owned joint venture CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response Cleanup and Liability Act, as amended Clean Air Act Federal Clean Air Act, as amended Clean Water Act Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, as amended COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019, including variants thereof DJ Denver-Julesburg DOT United States Department of Transportation EBITDA Earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency EPS Earnings per share of common stock ESG Environmental, social and governance Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings, Inc. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America GHG Greenhouse gas GWh Gigawatt hour Guardian Guardian Pipeline, L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK Guardian Term Loan Agreement Guardian s senior unsecured three-year $120 million term loan agreement dated June 2022 Homeland Security United States Department of Homeland Security HOU Midland West Texas Intermediate American Gulf Coast Futures ICE Intercontinental Exchange IRA Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 Intermediate Partnership ONEOK Partners Intermediate Limited Partnership, a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK. LDC Local distribution company KCC Kansas Corporation Commission Magellan Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P., a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK Magellan Acquisition The transaction completed on September 25, 2023, pursuant to which ONEOK acquired all of Magellan s outstanding common units in a cash-and-stock transaction, pursuant to the Merger Agreement MBbl/d Thousand barrels per day MDth/d Thousand dekatherms per day Merger Agreement Agreement and Plan of Merger of ONEOK, Otter Merger Sub, LLC and Magellan, dated May 14, 2023 MMBbl Million barrels MMBtu Million British thermal units 3 T able of Contents MMcf/d Million cubic feet per day Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. MVP MVP Terminalling, LLC, a 25% owned joint venture Natural Gas Act Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended Natural Gas Policy Act Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended NGL(s) Natural gas liquid(s) Northern Border Northern Border Pipeline Company, a 50% owned joint venture NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange OCC Oklahoma Corporation Commission ONEOK ONEOK, Inc. ONEOK Partners ONEOK Partners, L.P., a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK OPIS Oil Price Information Service Overland Pass Overland Pass Pipeline Company, LLC, a 50% owned joint venture PHMSA United States Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration POP Percent of Proceeds Purity NGLs Marketable natural gas liquid purity products, such as ethane, ethane/propane mix, propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline Quarterly Report(s) Quarterly Report(s) on Form 10-Q RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended RINs Renewable Identification Numbers, which represent credits required for renewable fuel standard compliance Refined Products The output from crude oil refineries, including products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, aviation fuel, kerosene and heating oil Roadrunner Roadrunner Gas Transmission, LLC, a 50% owned joint venture RRC Railroad Commission of Texas S P S P Global Ratings Saddlehorn Saddlehorn Pipeline Company, LLC, a 30% owned joint venture SCOOP South Central Oklahoma Oil Province, an area in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended Series E Preferred Stock Series E Non-Voting, Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share STACK Sooner Trend Anadarko Canadian Kingfisher, an area in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma Term SOFR The forward-looking term rate based on Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) Viking Viking Gas Transmission Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK Viking Term Loan Agreement Viking s senior unsecured three-year $60 million term loan agreement dated March 2023 XBRL eXtensible Business Reporting Language The statements in this Annual Report that are not historical information, including statements concerning plans and objectives of management for future operations, economic performance or related assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, intend, may, might, outlook, plan, potential, project, scheduled, should, target, will, would and other words and terms of similar meaning. Although we believe that our expectations regarding future events are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that such expectations or assumptions will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are described under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. 4 T able of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL We are incorporated under the laws of the state of Oklahoma, and our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol OKE. We deliver energy products and services vital to an advancing world. We are a leading midstream service provider of gathering, processing, fractionation, transportation, storage and marine export services. As one of the largest diversified energy infrastructure companies in North America, we are delivering energy that makes a difference in the lives of people in the U.S. and around the world. Through our more than 50,000-mile pipeline network, we transport the natural gas, NGLs, Refined Products and crude oil that help meet domestic and international energy demand, contribute to energy security and provide safe, reliable and responsible energy solutions needed today and into the future. Midstream Value Chain The midstream value chain is a vital part of the energy industry. After crude oil and natural gas are produced from upstream wells, we use our extensive infrastructure to process and transport these raw materials, readying them for end use. For transportation of crude oil, natural gas, Refined Products and NGLs, pipelines are generally the most reliable, lowest cost, least carbon intensive and safest alternative for intermediate and long-haul movements between markets. 5 T able of Contents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Magellan Acquisition - On September 25, 2023, we completed the Magellan Acquisition. The acquisition strategically diversifies our complementary asset base and allows for significant expected synergies. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each common unit of Magellan was exchanged for a fixed ratio of 0.667 shares of ONEOK common stock and $25.00 of cash, for a total consideration of $14.1 billion. In addition, we assumed Magellan s debt at the fair value of $4.0 billion. We issued approximately 135 million shares of common stock, with a fair value of approximately $9.0 billion as of the closing date of the Magellan Acquisition. We funded the cash portion of the acquisition with an underwritten public offering of $5.25 billion senior unsecured notes. For additional information on the Magellan Acquisition, see Part II, Item 8, Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. See Part 1,