Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 3 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 6 Item 2. Properties 6 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 7 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 7 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 7 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 7 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 27 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 28 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 28 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 28 Item 9B. Other Information 28 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 28 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 29 Item 11. Executive Compensation 29 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 29 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 29 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 29 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 29 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 32 Signatures 33 Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting F- 1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F- 2 Consolidated Financial Statements F- 4 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F- 9 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S- 1 i FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements, including statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, from time to time, the Company or its representatives have made, or may make, forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. These statements may discuss goals, intentions and expectations as to future plans, trends, events, results of operations or financial position, or otherwise, based on current beliefs of the Company s management as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Company s management. Forward-looking statements may be accompanied by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, plan, could, should, would, estimate, expect, forecast, future, guidance, intend, may, will, possible, potential, predict, project or similar words, phrases or expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company s control. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: adverse economic conditions, including those caused by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, severe and sustained inflation in countries that comprise our major markets, supply chain issues affecting the distribution of our clients products; international, national or local economic conditions that could adversely affect the Company or its clients; losses on media purchases and production costs incurred on behalf of clients; reductions in client spending, a slowdown in client payments and a deterioration or a disruption in the credit markets; the ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients in the manner anticipated; changes in client advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements; failure to manage potential conflicts of interest between or among clients; unanticipated changes relating to competitive factors in the advertising, marketing and corporate communications industries; the ability to hire and retain key personnel; currency exchange rate fluctuations; reliance on information technology systems; changes in legislation or governmental regulations affecting the Company or its clients; risks associated with assumptions the Company makes in connection with its critical accounting estimates and legal proceedings; and the Company s international operations, which are subject to the risks of currency repatriation restrictions, social or political conditions and regulatory environment. The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. You should carefully consider the foregoing factors and the other risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company s business, including those described in Item 1A, Risk Factors and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. Except as required under applicable law, the Company does not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. ii PART I Introduction This report is our 2021 annual report to shareholders and our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2021 Form 10-K. Omnicom Group Inc., a New York corporation formed in 1986, through its branded networks and agencies provides advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 70 countries. The terms Omnicom, the Company, we, our and us each refer to Omnicom Group Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Item 1. Business Our Business Omnicom is a strategic holding company providing advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to clients through our branded networks and agencies around the world. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against other global, national and regional advertising and marketing services companies, as well as technology, social media and professional services companies. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and media, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to global service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to optimize their total marketing expenditure. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our networks and agencies provide a comprehensive range of services in the following fundamental disciplines: Advertising, Precision Marketing, Commerce Brand Consulting, Experiential, Execution Support, Public Relations and Healthcare. Advertising includes creative services across digital and traditional media, strategic media planning and buying, and data analytics services. Precision Marketing includes digital and direct marketing, digital transformation and data and analytics. Commerce Brand Consulting services include brand consulting, strategy and research, and retail ecommerce. Experiential marketing services include live and digital events and experience design and execution. Execution Support includes field marketing, sales support, digital and physical merchandising and point-of-sale, as well as other specialized marketing and custom communications services. Public relations services include corporate communications, crisis management, public affairs, and media and media relations services. Healthcare includes advertising and media services to global healthcare and pharmaceutical clients. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. Our fundamental business principle is that our clients specific marketing requirements are the central focus of how we structure our service offerings and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model requires that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual client networks utilizing our key client matrix organization structure. This collaboration allows us to cut across our internal organizational structures to execute our clients marketing requirements in a consistent and comprehensive manner. We use our client-centric approach to grow our business by expanding our service offerings to existing clients, moving into new markets and obtaining new clients. In addition to collaborating through our client service models, our agencies and networks collaborate across internally developed technology platforms. Annalect, our proprietary data and analytics platform, serves as the strategic resource for all of our agencies and networks to share when developing client service strategies across our virtual networks. Omni, our people-based precision marketing and insights platform, identifies and defines personalized consumer experiences at scale across creative, media and other disciplines. Driven by our clients continuous demand for more effective and efficient marketing activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. Our service offerings include: advertising investor relations branding marketing research content marketing media planning and buying corporate social responsibility consulting merchandising and point of sale crisis communications mobile marketing custom publishing multi-cultural marketing data analytics non-profit marketing database management organizational communications digital/direct marketing package design digital transformation product placement entertainment marketing promotional marketing 1 experiential marketing public affairs field marketing public relations financial/corporate business-to-business advertising retail marketing graphic arts/digital imaging sales support healthcare marketing and communications search engine marketing instore design shopper marketing interactive marketing social media marketing sports and event marketing Certain business trends have impacted our business and industry. These trends include clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing new communications technologies and emerging digital platforms. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they tend to continue to consolidate their business within one or a small number of service providers in the pursuit of a single engagement covering all consumer touch points. We have structured our business around these trends. We believe that our key client matrix organization structure approach to collaboration and integration of our services and solutions provides a competitive advantage to our business in the past and we expect this to continue over the medium and long term. Our key client matrix organization structure facilitates superior client management and allows for greater integration of the services required by the world s largest brands. Our overarching strategy is to continue to use our virtual client networks to grow our business relationships with our largest clients by serving them across our networks, disciplines and geographies. As the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy moderated, we experienced improvement in our business in 2021 as compared to 2020. In 2021, revenue increased $1,118.3 million, or 8.5%, compared to 2020. The increase in revenue primarily reflects increased client spending in all our disciplines and across all our geographic areas compared to the prior year and the strengthening of most foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound and the Euro, against the U.S. Dollar. The increase in revenue year-over-year was impacted by a reduction in acquisition revenue, net of disposition revenue, primarily due to the sale of a specialty media business in the second quarter of 2021. Global economic conditions may continue to be volatile as long as the COVID-19 pandemic remains a public health threat. We expect global economic performance and the performance of our businesses to vary by geography and discipline until the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy subsides. We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses to identify areas for investment and acquisition opportunities, as well as to identify non-strategic or underperforming businesses for disposition. For information about our acquisitions and dispositions, see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD A, - Acquisitions and Goodwill and Notes 5 and 13, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. In the three years ended December 31, 2021, none of our acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, was material to our results of operations or financial position. The various components of our business, including revenue by discipline and geographic area, and material factors that affected us in 2021, are discussed in the MD A. Our Clients Our clients operate in virtually every sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brands, product groups or both within the same client. For example, in 2021 our largest client represented 3.2% of revenue and was served by approximately 110 of our agencies. Our 100 largest clients, many of which represent the largest global marketers, represented approximately 54% of revenue and were each served, on average, by approximately 52 of our agencies. Government Regulations We are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations in the countries in which we conduct business. Compliance with these laws and regulations in the normal course of business did not have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Additional information regarding the impact of government regulations on our business is included in