Item 1 . Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 3 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 5 Item 2. Properties 5 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 5 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 6 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 6 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 6 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 7 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 26 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 27 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 27 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 27 Item 9B. Other Information 28 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 29 Item 11. Executive Compensation 29 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 29 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 29 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 29 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 29 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 31 Signatures 32 Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting F - 1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F- 2 Consolidated Financial Statements F- 4 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F- 9 Selected Quarterly Financial Data F- 33 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S- 1 i FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements, including statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, from time to time, the Company or its representatives have made, or may make, forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. These statements may discuss goals, intentions and expectations as to future plans, trends, events, results of operations or financial condition, or otherwise, based on current beliefs of the Company s management as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Company s management. Forward-looking statements may be accompanied by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, plan, could, should, would, estimate, expect, forecast, future, guidance, intend, may, will, possible, potential, predict, project or similar words, phrases or expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company s control. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: international, national or local economic conditions that could adversely affect the Company or its clients; losses on media purchases and production costs incurred on behalf of clients; reductions in client spending, a slowdown in client payments and a deterioration in the credit markets; the ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients in the manner anticipated; changes in client advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements; failure to manage potential conflicts of interest between or among clients; unanticipated changes relating to competitive factors in the advertising, marketing and corporate communications industries; the ability to hire and retain key personnel; currency exchange rate fluctuations; reliance on information technology systems; changes in legislation or governmental regulations affecting the Company or its clients; risks associated with assumptions the Company makes in connection with its critical accounting estimates and legal proceedings; and the Company s international operations, which are subject to the risks of currency repatriation restrictions, social or political conditions and regulatory environment. The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. You should carefully consider the foregoing factors and the other risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company s business, including those described in Item 1A, Risk Factors and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. Except as required under applicable law, the Company does not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. ii PART I Introduction This report is our 2019 annual report to shareholders and our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2019 10-K. Omnicom Group Inc., a New York corporation formed in 1986, through its branded networks and agencies provides advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries. The terms Omnicom, the Company, we, our and us each refer to Omnicom Group Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Item 1. Business Our Business Omnicom is a strategic holding company providing advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to clients through our branded networks and agencies around the world. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against other global, national and regional advertising and marketing services companies, as well as technology, social media and professional services companies. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and mediums, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to global service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to optimize their total marketing expenditure. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our networks and agencies provide a comprehensive range of services in the following fundamental disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, which includes CRM Consumer Experience and CRM Execution Support, public relations and healthcare. Advertising includes creative services, as well as strategic media planning and buying and data analytics services. CRM Consumer Experience includes Omnicom s Precision Marketing Group and digital/direct agencies, as well as our branding, shopper marketing and experiential marketing agencies. CRM Execution Support includes field marketing, sales support, merchandising and point of sale, as well as other specialized marketing and custom communications services. Public relations services include corporate communications, crisis management, public affairs and media and media relations services. Healthcare includes advertising and media services to global healthcare clients. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. Our fundamental business principle is that our clients specific marketing requirements are the central focus of how we structure our service offerings and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model requires that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual client networks utilizing our key client matrix organization structure. This collaboration allows us to cut across our internal organizational structures to execute our clients marketing requirements in a consistent and comprehensive manner. We use our client-centric approach to grow our business by expanding our service offerings to existing clients, moving into new markets and obtaining new clients. In addition to collaborating through our client service models, our agencies and networks collaborate across internally developed technology platforms. Annalect, our proprietary data and analytics platform, serves as the strategic resource for all of our agencies and networks to share when developing client service strategies across our virtual networks. Omni, our people-based precision marketing and insights platform, identifies and defines personalized consumer experiences at scale across creative, media and CRM, as well as other disciplines. Driven by our clients continuous demand for more effective and efficient marketing activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. Our service offerings include: advertising investor relations branding marketing research content marketing media planning and buying corporate social responsibility consulting merchandising and point of sale crisis communications mobile marketing custom publishing multi-cultural marketing data analytics non-profit marketing database management organizational communications digital/direct marketing package design digital transformation product placement entertainment marketing promotional marketing experiential marketing public affairs field marketing public relations financial/corporate business-to-business advertising retail marketing 1 graphic arts/digital imaging sales support healthcare marketing and communications search engine marketing instore design shopper marketing interactive marketing social media marketing sports and event marketing Certain business trends have positively impacted our business and industry. These trends include clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing new communications technologies and emerging digital platforms. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they continue to consolidate their business within one or a small number of service providers in the pursuit of a single engagement covering all consumer touch points. We have structured our business around these trends. We believe that our key client matrix organization structure approach to collaboration and integration of our services and solutions provides a competitive advantage to our business in the past and we expect this to continue over the medium and long term. Our key client matrix organization structure facilitates superior client management and allows for greater integration of the services required by the world s largest brands. Our over-arching strategy is to continue to use our virtual client networks to grow our business relationships with our largest clients by serving them across our networks, disciplines and geographies. The various components of our business, including revenue by discipline and geographic area, and material factors that affected us in 2019 are discussed in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD A, of this report. None of our acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, was material to our results of operations or financial position in the three years ended December 31, 2019. For information about our acquisitions, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Our Clients Our clients operate in virtually every sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brand, product groups or both within the same client. For example, in 2019 our largest client represented 3.0% of revenue and was served by more than 210 of our agencies and our 100 largest clients, which represent many of the world's major marketers, represented approximately 51% of revenue and were each served, on average, by more than 60 of our agencies. Our Employees At December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 70,000 people worldwide. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client s brand or product and its selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client s target audience, whether through traditional channels or emerging digital platforms. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our client service professionals around this competency. See the MD A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations. Information About Our Executive Officers At January 30, 2020, our executive officers were: Name Position Age John D. Wren Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 67 Philip J. Angelastro Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 55 Michael J. O Brien Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 58 Andrew L. Castellaneta Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer 61 Peter L. Swiecicki Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller 61 Rochelle M. Tarlowe Senior Vice President and Treasurer 49 Jonathan B. Nelson CEO, Omnicom Digital 52 Each executive officer has held their present position for at least five years, except Mr. Wren was named Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in May 2018 and previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1997 to May 2018; and Ms. Tarlowe was named Senior Vice President and Treasurer in May 2019 and previously served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Avis Budget Group from 2007 until April 2019. Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, by April 9, 2020. 2 Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Documents we file with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at http://investor.omnicomgroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with the SEC. The information included on or available through our website is not part of this or any other report we file with the SEC. Any document that we file with the SEC is available on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.