Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 8 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 8 Item 2. Properties 9 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 9 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 9 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 9 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 9 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 29 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 30 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 30 Item 9B. Other Information 30 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 30 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 30 Item 11. Executive Compensation 30 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 31 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 31 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 31 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 31 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 34 Signatures 35 Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting F- 1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F- 2 Consolidated Financial Statements F- 4 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F- 9 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S- 1 i FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, including statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, from time to time, the Company or its representatives have made, or may make, forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. These statements may discuss goals, intentions and expectations as to future plans, trends, events, results of operations or financial position, or otherwise, based on current beliefs of the Company s management as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Company s management. Forward-looking statements may be accompanied by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, plan, could, should, would, estimate, expect, forecast, future, guidance, intend, may, will, possible, potential, predict, project or similar words, phrases or expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company s control. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: adverse economic conditions, including those caused by geopolitical events, international hostilities, acts of terrorism, public health crises, high and sustained inflation in countries that comprise our major markets, high interest rates, and labor and supply chain issues affecting the distribution of our clients products; international, national or local economic conditions that could adversely affect the Company or its clients; losses on media purchases and production costs incurred on behalf of clients; reductions in client spending, a slowdown in client payments and a deterioration or disruption in the credit markets; the ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients in the manner anticipated; changes in client advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements; failure to manage potential conflicts of interest between or among clients; unanticipated changes related to competitive factors in the advertising, marketing and corporate communications industries; unanticipated changes to, or the ability to hire and retain key personnel; currency exchange rate fluctuations; reliance on information technology systems and risks related to cybersecurity incidents; effective management of the risks, challenges and efficiencies presented by utilizing Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies and related partnerships in our business; changes in legislation or governmental regulations affecting the Company or its clients; risks associated with assumptions the Company makes in connection with its acquisitions, critical accounting estimates and legal proceedings; the Company s international operations, which are subject to the risks of currency repatriation restrictions, social or political conditions and an evolving regulatory environment in high-growth markets and developing countries; and risks related to our environmental, social and governance goals and initiatives, including impacts from regulators and other stakeholders, and the impact of factors outside of our control on such goals and initiatives. The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. You should carefully consider the foregoing factors and the other risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company s business, including those described in Item 1A, Risk Factors and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report and in other documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required under applicable law, the Company does not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. ii PART I Introduction This report is our 2023 annual report to shareholders and our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2023 Form 10-K. Omnicom Group Inc., a New York corporation formed in 1986, through its branded networks, practice areas, and agencies provides advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 70 countries. The terms Omnicom, the Company, we, our and us each refer to Omnicom Group Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Item 1. Business Our Business Omnicom is a strategic holding company providing advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to many of the largest global companies. Our portfolio of companies includes our global networks, BBDO, DDB, TBWA, Omnicom Media Group, the DAS Group of Companies, and the Communications Consultancy Network. All of our global networks integrate their service offerings with the Omnicom branded practice areas, including Omnicom Health Group, Omnicom Precision Marketing Group, Omnicom Commerce Group, Omnicom Advertising Collective, Omnicom Public Relations Group, and Omnicom Brand Consulting Group, as well as our Experiential businesses and Execution Support businesses, which includes Omnicom Specialty Marketing Group. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against other global, national and regional advertising and marketing services companies, as well as technology, social media and professional services companies. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and media, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to global service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to optimize their total marketing expenditure. On a global, pan-regional, and local basis, our networks, practice areas, and agencies provide a comprehensive range of services in the following fundamental disciplines: Advertising Media, Precision Marketing, Commerce Branding, Experiential, Execution Support, Public Relations, and Healthcare. Advertising Media includes creative services across digital and traditional media, strategic media planning and buying, performance media, and data analytics services. Precision Marketing includes digital and direct marketing, digital transformation consulting and data and analytics. Commerce Branding services include brand and product consulting, strategy and research, retail, and e-commerce. Experiential marketing services include live and digital events and experience design and execution. Execution Support includes field marketing, digital and physical merchandising, point-of-sale, product placement, as well as other specialized marketing and custom communications services. Public Relations services include corporate communications, crisis management, public affairs, and media and media relations services. Healthcare includes corporate communications and advertising and media services to global healthcare and pharmaceutical companies. As a leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company, we operate in all major markets and have a large client base. Our geographic markets include the Americas, which includes North America and Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia-Pacific. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our networks, practice areas and agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. Our fundamental business principle is that our clients specific marketing requirements are the central focus of how we structure our service offerings and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model requires that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual client networks utilizing our key client matrix organization structure. This collaboration allows us to cut across our internal organizational structures to execute our clients marketing requirements in a consistent and comprehensive manner. We use our client-centric approach to grow our business by expanding our service offerings to existing clients, moving into new markets and obtaining new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary companies with strong entrepreneurial management teams that currently serve or could serve our existing clients. In addition to collaborating through our client service models, our agencies, practice areas and networks collaborate across internally developed technology platforms. Annalect and Omni, our proprietary data and analytics platforms, serve as the strategic resource for all of our agencies, practice areas and networks to share when developing client service strategies across our virtual networks. These platforms provide precision marketing and insights at scale across creative, media and other disciplines. We believe generative AI will have a significant effect on how we provide services to our clients and how we enhance the productivity of our people. As with any new technology, we are working closely with our clients and technology partners to take advantage of the benefits of AI while being mindful of its limitations, risks, and privacy concerns. We are committed to responsible AI practices and collaboration to harness AI's potential, while evaluating related risks, such as ethical considerations, public perception and reputational concerns, intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance, privacy and data security concerns and our ability to effectively adopt this new emerging technology. The rapidly developing nature of AI technology makes it difficult to assess the full impact on our business at this time. 1 Driven by our clients continuous demand for more effective and efficient marketing activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. Our service offerings include: advertising marketing research branding media planning and buying content marketing retail media planning and buying corporate social responsibility consulting merchandising and point of sale crisis communications mobile marketing custom publishing multi-cultural marketing data analytics non-profit marketing database management organizational communications digital/direct marketing and post-production services package design digital transformation consulting product placement entertainment marketing promotional marketing experiential marketing public affairs field marketing public relations financial/corporate business-to-business advertising retail marketing graphic arts/digital imaging retail media and e-commerce healthcare marketing and communications search engine marketing instore design shopper marketing interactive marketing social media marketing investor relations sports and event marketing Certain business trends have impacted our business and industry. These trends include clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing new communications technologies and emerging digital platforms. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they tend to continue to consolidate their business within one or a small number of service providers in the pursuit of a single engagement covering all consumer touch points. We have structured our business around these trends. We believe that our key client matrix organization structure approach to collaboration and integration of our services and solutions have provided a competitive advantage to our business in the past and we expect this to continue over the medium and long term. Our key client matrix organization structure facilitates superior client management and allows for greater integration across our service platforms. Our overarching strategy is to continue to use our virtual client networks to grow our business relationships with our largest clients by serving them across our networks, disciplines and geographies. We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses to identify areas for investment and acquisition opportunities, as well as to identify non-strategic or underperforming businesses for disposition. For information about our acquisitions and dispositions, see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD A, - Acquisitions and Goodwill and Notes 5, 14 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements. In each of the three years ended December 31, 2023, none of our acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, were material to our results of operations or financial position. As described in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 2, 2024, we acquired Flywheel Digital, the digital commerce business of Ascential plc, for a net cash purchase price of approximately $845 million. Flywheel Digital provides services in e-commerce operations, media execution, and market intelligence. These services are complemented by a technology platform, which provides near real-time insights to clients. We expect Flywheel Digital to be a separate practice area within Omnicom, and we expect to integrate their services across our Advertising Media, Precision Marketing and Commerce Branding disciplines. The various components of our business, including revenue by discipline and geographic area, and material factors that affected us in the three years ended December 31, 2023, are discussed in the MD A. Our Clients Our clients operate in virtually every sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies, practice areas or networks serve different brands, product groups or both within the same client. For example, in 2023, our largest client represented 3.0% of revenue and was served by approximately 150 of our agencies. Our 100 largest clients, many of which represent the largest global companies, represented approximately 55% of revenue and were each served, on average, by approximately 55 of our agencies. Although we have a large and diverse client base, we are not immune to general economic downturns. 2 Government Regulations We are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations in the countries in which we conduct business. Compliance with these laws and regulations in the normal course of business did not have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Additional information regarding the impact of government regulations on our business is included in