Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 33 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 Item 11. Executive Compensation 60 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 60 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 60 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 60 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 61 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 106 Signatures 114 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report), the terms Oracle, we, us and our refer to Oracle Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. This Annual Report contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). These include, among other things, statements regarding: our expectation that we may acquire, and realize the anticipated benefits of acquiring, companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy as compelling opportunities become available; our belief that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings and increase stockholder value; our expectation that, on a constant currency basis, our total cloud and license revenues generally will continue to increase due to expected growth in our cloud services and continued demand for our cloud license and on-premise license and license support offerings; our belief that our Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) offerings are opportunities for us to continue to expand our cloud and license business, and that we are in the early stages of what we expect will be a material migration of our existing Oracle customer base from on-premise applications and infrastructure products and services to the Oracle Cloud; our belief that we can market our Oracle SaaS and OCI services (collectively Oracle Cloud Services) to a broader ecosystem of small and medium-sized businesses, non-IT lines of business purchasers, developers and partners due to the highly available, intuitive design, ease of access, low touch and low cost characteristics of the Oracle Cloud; our expectation that substantially all of our customers will renew their license support contracts upon expiration; our belief that Oracle Fusion Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) is a strategic suite of applications that is foundational to facilitating and extracting more business value out of the adoption of other Oracle SaaS offerings as customers realize the value of a common data model that spans across core business applications; our belief that our SaaS offerings remove business boundaries between front- and back-office activities; our expectation that current and expected customer demand will require continued growth in our cloud services and license support expenses in order to increase our existing data center capacity and establish additional data centers in new geographic locations; our expectation that our hardware business will have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business; our expectation that we will continue to make significant investments in research and development to maintain and improve our current products and service offerings, and our belief that research and development efforts are essential to maintaining our competitive position; our expectations regarding the financial performance and long-term potential of one of our investment companies; our expectation that our international operations will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses; our expectation that the proportion of our cloud services revenues relative to our total revenues will continue to increase; the sufficiency of our sources of funding for working capital, capital expenditures, contractual obligations, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases, debt repayments and other matters; 1 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements our belief that we have adequately provided under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for outcomes related to our tax audits, that the final outcome of our tax-related examinations, agreements or judicial proceedings will not have a material effect on our results of operations, and that our net deferred tax assets will likely be realized in the foreseeable future; our belief that the outcome of certain legal proceedings and claims to which we are a party will not, individually or in the aggregate, result in losses that are materially in excess of amounts already recognized, if any; the possibility that certain legal proceedings to which we are a party could have a material impact on our financial position, future cash flows and results of operations; the timing and amount of expenses we expect to incur; the cost savings we expect to realize pursuant to the Fiscal 2024 Oracle Restructuring Plan; declarations of future cash dividend payments and the timing and amount of future stock repurchases, including our expectation that the levels of our future stock repurchase activity may be modified in comparison to past periods in order to use available cash for other purposes and that the amount of stock repurchases will not increase until our gross debt is reduced below certain thresholds; our expectations regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements; our expectations regarding the performance of our investments in marketable and non-marketable equity securities and the timing and amount of changes in fair value of these investments; our ability to predict revenues, particularly certain cloud license and on-premise license revenues and hardware revenues; the percentages of remaining performance obligations that we expect to recognize as revenues over respective future periods; our expectation that the financial impacts of standard warranty or service level provisions in our revenue arrangements will continue to be insignificant; our expectation that supply chain shortages and the risks associated with our response to such shortages, including committing to higher purchases and balances of hardware products, will continue to impact us in the future; our beliefs regarding the retention of employees and how our products help to improve our employees learning experiences; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. Forward-looking statements may be preceded by, followed by or include the words anticipates, believes, continues, could, endeavors, estimates, expects, intends, is designed to, likely, may, plans, potential, seeks, shall, should, strives, will and similar expressions. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Exchange Act and the Securities Act for all forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about our business that could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report and as may be updated in filings we make from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed by us in our fiscal year 2025, which runs from June 1, 2024 to May 31, 2025. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. New information, future events or risks could cause the 2 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements forward-looking events we discuss in this Annual Report not to occur. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our expectations only as of the date of this Annual Report. 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PAR T I Item 1. Business Oracle provides products and services that address enterprise information technology (IT) needs. Our products and services include enterprise applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models. These models include on-premise, cloud-based and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployments), such as Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer and Dedicated Region offerings (instances of Oracle Cloud in a customer s own data center) and multicloud options that enable customers to use Oracle Cloud in conjunction with other public clouds. Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers needs. Our customers include businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers that we market and sell to directly through our worldwide sales force or indirectly through the Oracle Partner Network. Using Oracle technologies, our customers build, deploy, run, manage and support their internal and external products, services and business operations, including, for example, an artificial intelligence (AI) product company that uses Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to build and serve generative AI models; a global technology company that uses OCI to power its logistics and mobile application offerings; a multinational financial institution that runs its banking applications using Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer; and a global consumer products company that leverages Oracle Fusion Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) for its accounting processes, risk management, supply chain and financial planning functions. Oracle SaaS and OCI (collectively Oracle Cloud Services) offerings provide comprehensive and integrated applications and infrastructure services enabling our customers to choose the best option that meets their specific business needs. Oracle Cloud Services integrate the IT components, including software, hardware and services, in a cloud-based IT environment that Oracle deploys, manages, supports and upgrades for customers and that customers may access utilizing common web browsers via a broad spectrum of devices. Oracle Cloud Services are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; intuitive for casual and experienced users; easily maintainable to reduce upgrade, integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interoperability and extensibility to easily move workloads among the Oracle Cloud and other IT and cloud environments; cost-effective by lowering upfront customer investments and implementing usage-based resource consumption costs; and highly secure, standards-based and reliable. Oracle cloud license and on-premise license deployment offerings include Oracle Applications, Oracle Database and Oracle Middleware software offerings, among others, which customers deploy using IT infrastructure from the Oracle Cloud or their own cloud-based or on-premise IT environments. Substantially all customers opt to purchase license support contracts when they purchase an Oracle license. Oracle hardware products include Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage and industry-specific products, among others. Customers generally opt to purchase hardware support contracts when they purchase Oracle hardware products. Oracle also offers professional services to assist our customers and partners to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle products and services. Providing choice and flexibility to Oracle customers as to when and how they deploy Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies is an important element of our corporate strategy. We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better addresses customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings, more restrictive deployment models and less flexibility for a customer s transition to cloud-based IT environments. Our investments in, and innovation with respect to, Oracle products and services that we offer through our three businesses (cloud and license, hardware and services businesses, described further below) are another important element of our corporate strategy. In fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, we invested $8.9 billion, $8.6 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively, in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of offerings and to develop new technologies and services. We have a deep understanding as to how applications and infrastructure technologies 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements interact and function with one another, including through the use of OCI to power our Oracle Cloud SaaS applications, which we and our customers use to run internal business processes. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, reliability, operation, integration and cost-effectiveness of our offerings relative to our competitors; facilitating the ease with which organizations are able to deploy, use, manage and maintain our offerings; and incorporating emerging technologies such as AI within our offerings to enable leaner business processes, automation and innovation. For example, our Oracle Autonomous Database is designed to deliver transformational infrastructure as an OCI offering that uses machine learning capabilities to automate many traditionally manual functions. After an initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our offerings, research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their license and hardware deployments, which may include product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their Oracle Cloud Services contracts with us. Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings and increase stockholder value. We have invested billions of dollars over time to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy. We have three businesses: cloud and license; hardware; and services. Each business is comprised of a single operating segment. Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both included elsewhere in this Annual Report, provide additional information related to our businesses and operating segments. Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in June 1977. Oracle Applications and Infrastructure Technologies Oracle s comprehensive portfolio of applications and infrastructure technologies is designed to address an organization s IT environment needs, including business process, infrastructure and applications development requirements, among others. Oracle technologies are based upon industry standards and are designed to be enterprise-grade, reliable, scalable and secure. Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure products and services, are the building blocks of Oracle Cloud Services, our partners cloud services and our customers cloud IT environments. Oracle applications and infrastructure offerings are marketed and sold through our cloud and license and hardware businesses, and are delivered through the Oracle Cloud or through other IT deployment models, including cloud-based, hybrid and on-premise deployments. We believe that our Oracle Cloud Services offerings are opportunities for us to continue to expand our cloud and license business. We believe that our customers increasingly recognize the value of access to the latest versions of Oracle cloud-based applications and infrastructure capabilities via a lower cost, rapidly deployable, flexible and interoperable services model that Oracle provisions, manages, upgrades and maintains on our customers behalf. We believe that we can market and sell our Oracle Cloud Services offerings together to help new and existing customers migrate their extensive installed base of on-premise and cloud-based applications and infrastructure technologies to the Oracle Cloud and we believe we are in the early stages of what we expect will be a material migration of our existing Oracle customer base from on-premise applications and infrastructure products and services to the Oracle Cloud. In addition, we also believe we can market our Oracle Cloud Services offerings to a broader ecosystem of small and medium-sized businesses, non-IT lines of business purchasers, developers and partners due to the highly available, intuitive design, ease of access, low touch and low cost characteristics of the Oracle Cloud. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud deployment models has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and license support contracts to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. The proportion of our cloud services revenues relative to our total revenues has increased and our cloud services revenues represented 37%, 32% and 25% of our total revenues during fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We expect these trends to continue. Oracle Applications Technologies Oracle applications technologies are marketed, sold, delivered and supported through our cloud and license business. Our applications cloud services and license support revenues represented 46%, 47% and 42% of our total cloud services and license support revenues during fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Oracle applications offerings include our Oracle Cloud SaaS offerings, which are available for customers as a subscription, and Oracle applications license offerings, which are available for customers to purchase for use within the Oracle Cloud and other cloud-based and on-premise IT environments, and include the option to purchase related license support. Regardless of the deployment model selected, our applications technologies are designed to reduce the risk, cost and complexity of our customers IT infrastructures, while supporting customer choice with flexible deployment models that readily enable performance, agility, compatibility and extendibility. Our applications technologies are generally designed using industry standard architectures to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise, as well as to help customers differentiate and innovate in those processes unique to their industries or organizations. We offer applications that are deployable to meet several business automation requirements across a broad range of industries. We also offer industry-specific applications, which provide solutions to customers in the automotive, communications, construction and engineering, consumer packaged goods, energy and water, financial services, food and beverage, government and education, healthcare, high technology, hospitality, industrial manufacturing, life sciences, media and entertainment, oil and gas, professional services, public safety, retail, travel and transportation and wholesale distribution industries, among others. Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Oracle s broad spectrum of Oracle Cloud SaaS offerings provides customers a choice of software applications that are delivered via a cloud-based IT environment that we deploy, manage, upgrade and support and that customers purchase by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Customers access Oracle Cloud SaaS offerings utilizing common web browsers via a broad spectrum of devices. Our SaaS offerings are built upon open industry standards such as SQL, Java and HTML5 for easier application accessibility, integration and development. Our SaaS offerings represent an industry leading business innovation platform leveraging OCI and include a broad suite of modular, next-generation cloud software applications spanning all core business functions, including, among others: Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP, which is designed to be a complete and integrated ERP solution to help organizations improve decision making and workforce productivity, and to optimize back-office operations by utilizing a single data and security model with a common user interface; Oracle Fusion Cloud Enterprise Performance Management (EPM), which is designed to analyze financial performance, drive accurate and agile financial plans, optimize the financial close and consolidation process, streamline account reconciliation and satisfy an organization s reporting requirements; Oracle Fusion Cloud Supply Chain and Manufacturing Management (SCM), which is designed to help organizations create, optimize and digitize their supply chains; Oracle Fusion Cloud Human Capital Management (HCM), which is designed to help organizations find, develop and retain their talent, enable collaboration, provide workforce insights, improve business process efficiency and enable users to connect to an integrated suite of HCM applications from a broad range of devices; Oracle Fusion Sales, Service and Marketing, which are modules that are designed to be complete and integrated solutions to help organizations deliver consistent and personalized customer experiences across their customer channels, touch points and interactions; 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements NetSuite Applications Suite, which is generally marketed to small to medium-sized organizations and is designed to be a unified, cloud-based applications suite to run a company s entire business and includes financials and ERP, customer relationship management, human resources, professional services and commerce, among others; and Oracle Cerner healthcare applications, which are designed to enable medical professionals to deliver better healthcare to individual patients and communities. In addition, we offer several cloud-based industry solutions to address specific customer needs within certain industries including communications, construction and engineering, education, financial services, government, healthcare, hospitality, manufacturing and retail, among others. Customers, partners and other interested parties may elect to subscribe to Oracle applications and infrastructure training and certification programs through a variety of online, cloud-based learning subscriptions offered by Oracle University. Learners generally have unlimited access to course content delivered during the subscription period. We believe that the comprehensiveness and breadth of our SaaS offerings as a business innovation platform differentiate us from many of our competitors that offer more limited or specialized applications. Our SaaS offerings are designed to support connected business processes in the cloud and are centered on an intuitive and conversational user experience, a responsive, open and flexible business core and a common data model. We believe Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP is a strategic suite of applications that is foundational to facilitating and extracting more business value out of the adoption of other Oracle Cloud SaaS offerings, such as Oracle Fusion Cloud HCM and Oracle Fusion Cloud EPM, as customers realize the value of a common data model that spans across core business applications. We believe our SaaS offerings together remove business boundaries between front- and back-office activities. Our SaaS offerings are designed to deliver a secure data isolation architecture and flexible upgrades; self-service access controls for users; a Service-Oriented Architecture; built-in social, mobile and business insight capabilities (analytics); and a high performance, high availability infrastructure based on OCI. These SaaS capabilities are designed to simplify customer IT environments, reduce time to implement and upgrade, enable agility, reduce risk, provide an intuitive user experience for casual and experienced users and enable customers to focus resources on business growth opportunities. Our SaaS offerings are also designed to natively incorporate advanced technologies such as AI, Internet-of-Things (IoT), machine learning, blockchain, digital assistants and advances in the human interface and how users interact with Oracle Cloud SaaS offerings within a business context or to augment human capabilities to enhance productivity. Oracle Applications Licenses Customers have the ability to license Oracle Applications, including Oracle E-Business Suite, PeopleSoft, JD Edwards and Siebel applications, among others, for use within the Oracle Cloud or within their own cloud-based or on-premise IT environments. These licensed applications are designed to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise, including HCM, ERP, EPM, SCM, Customer Experience and industry-specific applications, as described above, among others. Oracle License Support Oracle license support offerings are marketed and sold as a part of our cloud and license business. We provide customers the option to purchase license support contracts in connection with the purchase of Oracle Applications licenses. Substantially all of our customers opt to purchase license support contracts when they purchase Oracle applications and infrastructure licenses to run within the Oracle Cloud or other cloud-based and on-premise IT environments. We believe our license support offerings protect and enhance our customers investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies because they provide proactive and personalized support services (including Oracle Lifetime Support) and unspecified license enhancements and upgrades during the term of the support period. Substantially all license support customers renew their support contracts with us upon expiration in order to continue to benefit from technical support services and the periodic issuance of unspecified updates and enhancements, which current license support customers are entitled to receive. Our license support contracts are 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to purchase the license, are typically one year in duration and are generally billed to the customer annually in advance. Oracle Infrastructure Technologies Oracle infrastructure technologies are marketed, sold and delivered through our cloud and license business and through our hardware business. Our infrastructure technologies are designed to be flexible, cost-effective, standards-based, secure and highly-performant to facilitate the development, deployment, integration, management and extension across an organization s cloud-based, on-premise and hybrid IT environments. Our cloud and license business infrastructure technologies include the Oracle Database and MySQL Database, the world s most popular database management systems; Java, the computer industry s most widely-used language by professional software developers; and middleware, including development tools, among others. These infrastructure technologies are available through a subscription to our OCI offerings or through the purchase of a license and related license support, at the cust