Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 1C. Cyb ersecurity 23 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 73 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 73 Item 9B. Other Information 74 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 74 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 75 Item 11. Executive Compensation 75 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 76 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 76 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 76 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 77 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 80 3 Forward-Looking Statements We claim the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as estimate, may, could, will, believe, expect, would, consider, should, anticipate, project, plan, intend, or similar words. In addition, statements contained within this annual report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing, among other things, expected growth, store development, integration and expansion strategy, business strategies, future revenues, and future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the economy in general; inflation; consumer debt levels; product demand; a public health crisis; the market for auto parts; competition; weather; tariffs; availability of key products and supply chain disruptions; business interruptions, including terrorist activities, war and the threat of war; failure to protect our brand and reputation; challenges in international markets; volatility of the market price of our common stock; our increased debt levels; credit ratings on public debt; damage, failure, or interruption of information technology systems, including information security and cyber-attacks; historical growth rate sustainability; our ability to hire and retain qualified employees; risks associated with the performance of acquired businesses; and governmental regulations. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Please refer to the Risk Factors section in this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings, for additional factors that could materially affect our financial performance. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. 4 PART I Item 1. Business GENERAL INFORMATION Unless otherwise indicated, we, us, our, and similar terms, as well as references to the Company, refer to O Reilly Automotive, Inc. and its Subsidiaries. O Reilly is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment, and accessories in the United States ( U.S. ), selling our products to both do-it-yourself ( DIY ) and professional service provider customers, our dual market strategy. The business was founded in 1957 by Charles F. O Reilly and his son, Charles H. Chub O Reilly, Sr., and initially operated from a single store in Springfield, Missouri. Our common stock has traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol ORLY since April 22, 1993. At December 31, 2023, we operated 6,095 stores in 48 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and 62 stores in Mexico. On December 18, 2023, we announced that we had entered into a definitive stock purchase agreement with the shareholders of Groupe Del Vasto, an auto parts supplier headquartered in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, under which O Reilly would acquire all of the outstanding shares of Groupe Del Vasto and its affiliated entities. In January of 2024, we completed the acquisition of Groupe Del Vasto. Our stores carry an extensive product line, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts and maintenance items, such as alternators, batteries, brake system components, belts, chassis parts, driveline parts, engine parts, fuel pumps, hoses, starters, temperature control, water pumps, antifreeze, appearance products, engine additives, filters, fluids, lighting, oil, and wiper blades and accessories, such as floor mats, seat covers, and truck accessories. Our stores offer many enhanced services and programs to our customers, such as battery diagnostic testing; battery, wiper, and bulb replacement; check engine light code extraction, where allowed by law, with diagnostic information, list of possible repair fixes, and referrals to trusted local repair shops provided; custom hydraulic hoses; drum and rotor resurfacing; electrical and module testing; loaner tool program; professional paint shop mixing and related materials; and used oil, oil filter, and battery recycling. See the Risk Factors section of this annual report on Form 10-K for a description of certain risks relevant to our business. These risk factors include, among others, risks related to deteriorating economic conditions; competition in the automotive aftermarket business; our sensitivity to regional economic and weather conditions; our relationships with key suppliers and availability of key products; business interruptions; failure to protect our brand and reputation; risks associated with international operations; unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results; the volatility of the market price of our common stock; our increased debt levels; a downgrade in our credit ratings; information and systems security, damage, and failure; failure to achieve our growth objectives; our dependence upon key personnel; our acquisition success; and litigation, environmental legislation, and other regulations. OUR BUSINESS Our goal is to continue to achieve growth in sales and profitability by capitalizing on our competitive advantages and executing our growth strategies. We remain confident in our ability to continue to gain market share in our existing markets and grow our business in new markets by focusing on our dual market strategy and the core O Reilly values, including hard work, superior customer service, and expense control. Our mission is to be the dominant auto parts provider in all the markets we serve by providing a higher level of customer service and a better value position than our competitors to both DIY and professional service provider customers. 5 Competitive Advantages We believe our effective dual market strategy, superior customer service, technically proficient store personnel, strategic distribution network, and experienced management Team make up our key competitive advantages, which cannot be easily duplicated. Proven Ability to Execute Our Dual Market Strategy: For more than 40 years, we have established a track record of effectively serving, at a high level, both DIY and professional service provider customers. We believe our proven ability to effectively execute a dual market strategy is a unique competitive advantage. The execution of this strategy enables us to better compete by targeting a larger base of automotive aftermarket parts consumers, capitalizing on our existing store and distribution infrastructure, operating profitably in both large markets and less densely populated geographic areas that typically attract fewer national chain competitors, and enhancing service levels offered to DIY customers through the offering of a broad inventory and the extensive product knowledge required by professional service provider customers. In 2023, we derived approximately 53% of our sales from our DIY customers and approximately 47% of our sales from our professional service provider customers. Historically, we have increased our sales to professional service provider customers at a faster pace than the increase in our sales to DIY customers due to the more fragmented nature of the professional service provider business, which offers a greater opportunity for consolidation. We believe we will continue to have a competitive advantage on the professional service provider portion of our business, due to our systems, knowledge, industry-leading parts availability, and experience serving the professional service provider side of the automotive aftermarket, augmented by our approximately 775 full-time sales staff dedicated solely to calling upon and servicing the professional service provider customer. We will also continue to expand and enhance the level of offerings focused on growing our DIY business and will continue to execute our proven dual market strategy in both existing and new markets. Superior Customer Service: We seek to provide our customers with an efficient and pleasant in-store experience by maintaining attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide selection of automotive products. We believe the satisfaction of DIY and professional service provider customers is substantially dependent upon our ability to provide, in a timely fashion, the correct automotive products needed to complete their repairs. Accordingly, each O Reilly store carries, or has same or next day availability to, a broad selection of automotive products designed to cover a wide range of vehicle applications. We continuously refine the inventory levels and assortments carried in each of our stores and within our network, based in large part on the sales movement tracked by our inventory control system, market vehicle registration data, failure rates, and management s assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace. We have no material backorders for the products we sell. We seek to attract new DIY and professional service provider customers and retain existing customers by offering superior customer service, the key elements of which are identified below: superior in-store service through highly-motivated, technically-proficient store personnel ( Professional Parts People ); an extensive selection and superior availability of products; many enhanced service programs, including battery and electrical testing, battery, wiper and bulb replacement, and check engine light code extractions with diagnostic support; attractive stores in convenient locations; competitive pricing, supported by a good, better, best product assortment designed to meet all of our customers quality and value preferences; a robust point-of-sale system integrated with our proprietary electronic catalog, which contains a wide variety of product images, schematics and technical specifications, and equips our Team Members with highly effective tools to source products in our extensive supply network; online ordering for our professional customers through our proprietary professional customer platform, www.FirstCallOnline.com, with local delivery available; and online ordering, featuring chat with a parts professional, parts look up assistance for our DIY customers through our retail platform, www.OReillyAuto.com , with convenient store locations for pick up in store orders or home delivery. Technically Proficient Professional Parts People: Our highly-motivated, technically-proficient Professional Parts People provide us with a significant competitive advantage, particularly over less specialized retail operators. We require our Professional Parts People to undergo extensive and ongoing training and to be knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard part repairs, in order to better serve the technically-oriented professional service 6 provider customers with whom they interact on a daily basis. Such technical proficiency also enhances the customer service we provide to our DIY customers who value the expert assistance provided by our Professional Parts People. See our Team Members and Human Capital Management disclosure of the Business section of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information about our technically proficient professional parts people. Strategic Regional Tiered Distribution Network: We believe our commitment to a robust, regional, tiered distribution network provides superior replenishment and access to hard-to-find parts and enables us to optimize product availability and inventory levels throughout our store network. Our strategic, regional, tiered distribution network includes distribution centers ( DCs ) and Hub stores. Our inventory management and distribution systems electronically link each of our stores to one or more DCs, which provides for efficient inventory control and management. We currently operate 30 regional DCs, which provide our stores with same-day or overnight access to an average of 152,000 stock keeping units ( SKUs ), many of which are hard-to-find items not typically stocked by other auto parts retailers. To augment our robust distribution network, we operate a total of 385 Hub stores that also provide delivery service and same-day access to stores within the surrounding areas to an average of 52,000 SKUs, with Hubs in select markets carrying further enhanced inventory levels up to approximately 106,000 SKUs. More than 95% of our stores receive multiple same-day deliveries and deliveries on weekends of hard to find parts from our DCs and Hub stores. We believe this timely access to a broad range of products is a key competitive advantage in satisfying customer demand and generating repeat business. Experienced Management Team: Our Company philosophy is to promote from within, and the vast majority of our senior managers, district managers, and store managers have been promoted from within the Company. We augment this promote from within philosophy by pursuing strategic hires with a strong emphasis on automotive aftermarket experience, technical proficiency, or subject matter expertise. We have a strong management Team that has demonstrated the consistent ability to successfully execute our business plan and growth strategy by generating 31 consecutive years of record revenues and earnings and positive comparable store sales results since becoming a public company in April of 1993. See our Team Members and Human Capital Management disclosure of the Business section of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information about our experienced management Team. Growth Strategy Aggressively Open New Stores: We intend to continue to consolidate the fragmented automotive aftermarket. During 2023, we opened 166 net, new domestic stores and 20 new stores in Mexico. In 2024, we plan to open 190 to 200 net, new stores, which will increase our penetration in existing markets and allow for expansion into new, contiguous markets. The sites for these new stores have been identified, and to date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in locating suitable sites for construction of new stores or identifying suitable acquisition targets for conversion to O Reilly stores. We typically open new stores by (i) constructing a new facility or renovating an existing one on property we purchase or lease and stocking the new store with fixtures and inventory; (ii) acquiring an independently owned auto parts store ( jobber store ), typically by the purchase of substantially all of the inventory and other assets (other than realty) of such store; or (iii) purchasing multi-store chains. New store sites are strategically located in clusters within geographic areas that complement our distribution network in order to achieve economies of scale in management, advertising, and distribution. Other key factors we consider in the site selection process include population density and growth patterns, demographic lifestyle segmentation, age and per capita income, vehicle traffic counts, vehicles in operation, number and type of existing automotive repair facilities, and competing auto parts stores within a predetermined radius. We target both small and large markets for expansion of our store network. While we have, and continue to face, aggressive competition in the more densely populated markets, we believe we have competed effectively, and are well positioned to continue to compete effectively, in such markets and to achieve our goal of continued profitable sales growth within these markets. We also believe that with our dual market strategy, we are better able to operate stores in less densely populated areas, which would not otherwise support a national chain store selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. Therefore, we continue to pursue opening new stores in less densely populated market areas as part of our growth strategy. Grow Sales in Existing Stores: Profitable comparable store sales growth is also an important part of our growth strategy. To achieve improved sales and profitability at existing O Reilly stores, we continually strive to improve the service provided to our customers. We believe that while competitive 7 pricing is an essential component of successful growth in the automotive aftermarket business, it is customer satisfaction, whether of the DIY consumer or professional service provider, resulting from superior customer service, that generates sustainable increased sales and profitability. Selectively Pursue Strategic Acquisitions: The automotive aftermarket industry is still highly fragmented, and we believe the ability of national auto parts chains, like O Reilly, to operate more efficiently and effectively than smaller independent operators will result in continued industry consolidation. Our intention is to continue to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions that will strengthen our position as a leading automotive aftermarket parts supplier in existing markets and provide a springboard for expansion into new domestic and international markets. Continually Enhance Store Design and Location: Our current prototype store design features optimized square footage, high ceilings, convenient interior store layouts, in-store signage, multilingual signage, bright lighting, convenient ingress and egress, ample parking, and dedicated counters to serve professional service provider customers, each designed to increase sales and operating efficiencies to enhance overall customer service. We continually update the location and condition of our store network through systematic renovation and relocation of our existing stores to enhance store performance. During 2023, we relocated 24 stores and performed minor to major updates or renovations to approximately 1,100 additional stores. We believe that our ability to consistently achieve growth in comparable store sales is due in part to our commitment to maintaining an attractive store network, which is strategically located to best attract and serve our customers. Omnichannel Growth Strategy: Our Omnichannel growth strategies reflect the continued evolution of customer preferences in researching and completing purchases. More than ever before, our customers purchase decisions are informed by a range of interactions, whether in-person, over the phone, or through a variety of digital channels, as they seek to find the professional parts knowledge and the product availability they need to meet their automotive repair and maintenance needs. Our Omnichannel growth strategies are focused on offering our customers an enhanced and seamless research and buying experience through any of these channels. We have long been known for excellent customer service and continue to grow the functionality and user-friendliness of our digital platforms, including www.OReillyAuto.com and www.FirstCallOnline.com, to enhance our customers shopping experience. Many of our customers interact over multiple channels to research and complete a purchase, and the functionality and features of our digital sites complement the outstanding customer service provided in our brick and mortar locations. Team Members and Human Capital Management Our tradition for 67 years has been to treat all of our Team Members with honesty and respect and to commit significant resources to instill in them our Live Green culture, which emphasizes the importance of each Team Member s contribution to the success of O Reilly. This focus on professionalism and respect has created an industry-leading Team, and we consider our relations with our Team Members to be excellent. We are committed to providing a work environment that allows Team Members to feel highly valued and to be productive and effective in their jobs by maintaining an inclusive environment and healthy work/life balance, which we believe increases employee engagement. Our ongoing emphasis on diversity and inclusion, including our policies, recruitment and selection procedures, onboarding processes, and training efforts, positively builds upon our successful promote from within philosophy and growth strategies. Talent Acquisition, Retention, and Training: Our Company knows the value of a tenured Team, which is why our philosophy is to promote from within first. As management opportunities arise, we look first within the Company and promote those who have performed well, have the right expertise, and have shown leadership potential before looking outside the Company; however, we augment this philosophy by pursuing strategic hires with a strong emphasis on automotive aftermarket experience, customer service excellence, subject matter expertise, and strong culture fit. This comprehensive approach increases Team Member commitment and has resulted in a very experienced leadership Team. As of December 31, 2023, our strong management Team was comprised of 241 senior managers who average 19 years of service, 329 corporate managers who average 15 years of service, and 616 district managers who average 14 years of service. Each of our stores is staffed with a store manager and one or more assistant managers, in addition to parts specialists, retail and/or installer service specialists, and other positions required to meet the specific needs of each store. Each of our 616 district managers has general supervisory responsibility for an average of 10 stores, which provides our stores with strong operational support. We offer a variety of specific training programs that address a broad spectrum of topics from store and distribution center operations to customer service. We believe our highly trained Team of Professional Parts People is essential in providing superior customer service 8 to both DIY and professional service provider customers. A significant portion of our business is from professional service provider customers; therefore, our Professional Parts People are required to be highly technically proficient in automotive products. In addition, we have found that the typical DIY customer often seeks assistance from Professional Parts People, particularly when purchasing hard parts. The ability of our Professional Parts People to provide such assistance to the DIY customer creates a favorable impression and is a significant factor in generating repeat DIY business. We screen prospective Team Members to identify highly motivated individuals who either have experience with automotive parts and repairs or automotive aptitude. New store Team Members go through a comprehensive orientation focused on the culture of our Company, as well as the requirements for their specific position. Additionally, during their first year of employment, our parts specialists go through extensive automotive systems and product knowledge training to ensure they are able to provide high levels of service to our customers. Once all of the required training has been satisfied, our parts specialists become eligible to take the O Reilly Certified Parts Professional test. Passing the O Reilly test helps prepare them to become certified by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence ( ASE ). All of our stores have the ability to service professional service provider customers. For this reason, select Team Members in each store complete extensive sales call training with a regional field sales manager. These Team Members then spend at least one day per week calling on existing and potential professional service provider customers. Each Team Member engaged in such sales activities participates in quarterly advanced training programs for sales and business development. Additionally, we have extensive processes in place to specifically identify emerging talent and conduct formalized training focused on leadership development. Store and district managers complete a comprehensive training program to ensure each has a thorough understanding of customer service, leadership, inventory management, and store profitability, as well as all other sales and operational aspects of our business model. Store and district managers are also required to complete a structured training program that is specific to their position, including attending a week-long manager development program at the corporate headquarters in Springfield, Missouri. Store and district managers also receive continuous training through online training programs, field workshops, regional meetings, and our annual leadership conference. Diversity and Inclusion: At O Reilly, valuing diversity and inclusion is about creating an environment in which our Team Members feel included, respected, and have opportunities to do their best work and achieve their greatest potential. We believe diversity within the workplace is crucial in running our business and building the best Team of Professional Parts People to serve our customers. We are committed to recruiting and building a diverse team through inclusive talent acquisition, ongoing leadership development, and actively identifying emerging talent. We have worked to expand opportunities for all of our Team Members through programs designed to prepare them to take on more responsibilities at every level of the organization. We firmly believe that promoting from within is a differentiator in maximizing our diversity across the entire company. In order to ensure our diversity and inclusion efforts are successful, we survey our Team Members, provide enhanced, collaborative learning through diversity and inclusion training and resources, and build network groups, action plans, and programs aimed at improving our work environments for our Team Members and customers. Compensation, Benefits, and Recognition: Our compensation philosophy has always been to incentivize Team Members to run it like you own it, and we continually evaluate and benchmark our comprehensive compensation programs to ensure they remain competitive, providing an important tool to attract and retain the best and most qualified Team Members in every market. We provide financial incentives to all store Team Members through various incentive compensation programs. Store team members have the opportunity to earn incentive pay that increases their base hourly wage consistent with their individual performance or the performance of their store. Store managers, district managers, region directors, and division vice presidents have the ability to earn additional compensation above their salary or base hourly wage based upon the performance of their stores. In addition, beginning with the district manager level, we augment our competitive programs with share-based compensation. We believe our incentive compensation programs significantly increase the motivation and overall performance of our Team Members. Just as pay, benefits, and growth opportunities are critically important to our Team Members success, we believe it is equally important to recognize Team Members for a job well done. We regularly present many awards that range from recognizing individual service longevity to performance, allowing peer-to-peer recognition, or management nomination of an individual s excellent performance. Team Composition: We recognize that each and every one of our Team Members plays a very important role in our ability to provide outstanding customer service and achieve consistent, successful performance. As of January 31, 2024, we employed 90,302 Team Members (75,614 full-time Team Members and 14,688 part-time Team Members), of whom 73,578 were employed at our stores, 11,807 were employed at our 9 DCs, and 4,917 were employed at our corporate and regional offices. Ours is an increasingly technical business creating the need for knowledgeable Professional Parts People, and our ongoing focus on developing a technically proficient Team has resulted in the growth of the mix of our full-time work force, increasing from 65% at January 31, 2020 to 84% at January 31, 2024. While full-time Professional Parts People play a vital role in our ongoing success, the flexibility of incorporating part-time employment into our work force is also an important component of providing excellent customer service. Many of our part-time Team Members choose to work at O Reilly while attending school, or during other transitional periods in their lives, or simply because of their passion for cars and knowledge