Item 1. Business 4 Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results 12 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer of Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants and Financial Disclosure 102 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 102 Item 9B. Other Information 102 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 102 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 102 Item 11. Executive Compensation 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 104 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 104 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 110 SIGNATURES 111 3 Table of Contents Otis Worldwide Corporation's and its subsidiaries' names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and product and service designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of Otis Worldwide Corporation and its subsidiaries. Names, abbreviations of names, logos, and product and service designators of other companies are either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of their respective owners. As used herein, the terms "we", "us", "our", "the Company" or "Otis", unless the context otherwise requires, mean Otis Worldwide Corporation and its subsidiaries. References to Internet websites in this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only. Information available through these websites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Otis is t he world s leading elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. We serve customers in ov er 200 countries and territories around t he world. Otis has global scale and local focus, with over 1,400 bra nches and offices, and a direct physical presence in approximately 80 countries. Separation from United Technologies Corporation Otis is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated on March 1, 2019 in connection with the separation and distribution ("Separation") of each of Otis and C arrier Global Corporation ("Carrier") from United Technologies Corporation, subsequently renamed Raytheon Technologies Corporation ("UTC" or "RTX", as applicable) into separate independent publicly-traded companies. The Separation occurred on April 3, 2020. References to "UTC" relate to pre-Separation matters, and references to "RTX" relate to post-Separation matters. The Separation was completed pursuant to a Separation and Distribution Agreement ("Separation Agreement") and other agreements with UTC and Carrier related to the Separation, including but not limited to a transition services agreement ("TSA"), a tax matters agreement ("TMA"), an employee matter agreement ("EMA") and an intellectual property agreement (the "Intellectual Property Agreement"). For further discussion of these agreements, see Item 1A, "Note 1: Business Overview" in Item 8 and Item 15 in this Form 10-K. The following description of our busin ess should be read in conjunction with Item 7 in this Form 10-K, including the information contained therein under the heading "Business Overview." Description of Business by Segment Our Company is organized into two segments, New Equipment and Service, which, for the year ended December 31, 2021, contributed 45% and 55% of our net sales, and 21% and 79% of our segment operating profit, respectively. Our international operations represented approximately 74% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021. New Equipment Through our New Equipment segment, we design, manufacture, sell and install a wide range of passenger and freight elevators, as well as escalators and moving walkways for residential, commercial and infrastructure projects. In 2021 , our New Equipment segment had sales of $6.4 billion and operating profit of $459 million. In 2021, our New Equipment sales in China and the Americas each represented approximately one-third of our new equipment net sales, respectively, while China represented over half of our global New Equipment unit volume. We have developed a range of elevator and escalator solutions to meet the varying needs and objectives of our diverse customers. Our primary elevator and escalator solutions are described below. The Gen2 family of elevators has been our principal low-and mid-rise elevator solution. Since its launch in 2000, Otis has sold over one million Gen2 units, making it our best selling elevator platform. In 2021, we introduced the successors to the Gen2 family of elevators: the Gen3 and Gen360 digital elevator platforms. These platforms enhance the space-saving, energy-efficient design of the Gen2 elevator with the connectivity of the Otis ONE IoT (internet of things) digital service platform, while adding additional safety features for the passengers and our colleagues who maintain the elevator. Otis ONE is designed 4 Table of Contents to continuously monitor equipment health and performance in real time to provide proactive, predictive and transparent information to our technicians and customers. The technology expands predictive and remote maintenance capabilities to support improved elevator up-time and service productivity. The Gen360 elevator also features a new native electronic architecture, with many mechanical components replaced by electronic components that in connection with our service increase reliability, reduce the potential for entrapments and free hoistway space to accommodate larger cabins. The new Otis One IoT solution turns the elevator into a network of sensors for real-time status updates. A foldable, in-ceiling platform allows maintenance operations to be performed safely from within the car rather than on top of it and, depending on local regulations, eliminates the need for a refuge space above the car and the protrusion on the roof for a flat roof design. With 360-degree cameras in the hoistway, Otis service teams can visually confirm, fine-tune, diagnose and solve many issues remotely without stopping the elevator. For taller, high-rise buildings, our most prominent product is the SkyRise elevator solution. The SkyRise advanced high-rise elevator platform combines cutting-edge technologies and precision engineering to deliver solutions for residential, commercial and mixed use skyscrapers. Otis offers a range of technologies for improving the passenger experience as well as the safety and efficiency of the building itself. Our proprietary Compass 360 destination management system groups passengers by their desired destination and directs them to an assigned car that minimizes waiting and ride time. The system's algorithms anticipate traffic demand within a building and improves traffic flow. Otis eView in-car display streams live, customizable infotainment to passengers and connects them to OTISLINE during an emergency. The Otis eCall Plus smartphone app enables passengers to summon their elevator remotely for a touchless experience. We have also rolled out new voice and gesturing technologies for summoning elevators to customers in China and North America, with other geographies to follow. And the new Otis Cab Air Purifier significantly reduces airborne bacteria and viruses, another innovation designed to address customer needs and passenger preferences as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition t o elevator solutions, we also offer escalators and moving walkways. With a range of finishes and aesthetics, Otis escalators integrate easily with building designs. Our smart design and features enhance sustainability and passenger safety, such as sensor-equipped escalators and moving walkways that efficiently run only when passengers approach, or operate at reduced speeds to conserve energy when there are no riders. Our New Equipment customers include real-estate and building developers and general contractors who develop and/or design buildings for residential, commercial, retail or mixed-use activity. We also sell New Equipment to government agencies, particularly, to support infrastructure projects, such as airports, railways or metros. We generally sell directly to our customers through our New Equipment sales personnel. Due to the large and widespread nature of the customer base in China and certain other geographies, our direct sales force is augmented by agents and distributors. We also rely on agents and distributors to sell our new equipment in certain other countries and territories. Given the breadth of our customer base and the large number of customers to whom we deliver new equipment on an annual basis, we are not dependent on any single customer and do not have any contracts material to Otis as a whole with any single customer. Our network of agents and distributors is broad and geographically dispersed, and we do not rely on or have any contracts material to Otis as a whole with any single agent or distributor. New Equipment customers typically engage with us at an early stage during the construction cycle. The timing of order placement depends on factors including project complexity and customer requirements. Elevator installation usually occurs midway through building construction. Most New Equipment orders are delivered w ithin 12 months of booking, though larger projects can take longer to deliver based on customer construction schedules. When placing New Equipment orders, customers typically make an advance payment to cover costs including design and contract engineering. These advance payments are typically followed by periodic progress payments at specified milestones, such as delivery of materials at the job site and completion of installation and equipment commissioning. Installation is carried out by our installation technicians or through subcontractors, in which case we typically complete the final inspection and commissioning to ensure that our quality standards are met. Revenues are recognized based on percentage of completion. Once commissioned, New Equipment units are typically supported by a warranty for a limited period of time. 5 Table of Contents Service Through our Service segment, we perform maintenance and repair services, as well as modernization services to upgrade elevators and escalators. We have a maintenance portfolio of over 2.1 million units globally, which includes Otis equipment manufactured and sold by us, as well as equipment from other original equipment manufacturers. Through our network of service sales personnel, we sell our services directly to customers in all significant elevator and escalator end-segments around the world. In 2021 , our Service segment had net sales of $7.9 billion and operating profit of $1.8 billion. Service customers typically comprise building owners, facility managers, housing associations and government agencies that operate buildings where elevators and escalators are installed. Customers securing services for elevators are frequently different from those who initially make purchasing decisions with respect to New Equipment solutions. With over 2.1 million maintenance units under contract globally, we have a wide range of customers in our Service segment and do not have any single service contract material to Otis as a whole. Contract duration depends on a number of factors, including customer needs, regulatory requirements and industry/geography dynamics. We work closely with our customers to renew these contracts as appropriate. Certain types of customers, such as those owning or operating large properties or portfolios of properties, tend to execute long-term maintenance agreements. We grow our maintenance portfolio through conversion of newly installed units into maintenance contracts, through prospecting and winning units already in service from customers using another service provider and through acquisitions. Our Service sales personnel seek to win service contracts upon the expiration or termination of existing service contracts from customers by offering a superior value proposition through service excellence, an engaged and technically sophisticated group of field service technicians, a streamlined customer experience and strong elevator and escalator operating performance. Our services include inspections, preventive maintenance offerings and other customized maintenance offerings tailored to meet customer needs. A basic maintenance contract provides for inspection consistent with local regulatory needs. We also provide customers with repair services to address equipment and component wear and tear, as well as breakdowns. We offer incremental, tiered maintenance and service offerings, with varying levels of coverage up to and including comprehensive component replacement coverage. Similar to most other electro-mechanical equipment, elevators and escalators are subject to wear and tear, which over time erodes equipment functionality. As elevator equipment ages, we work with customers to help renew or refresh their elevators with modernization solutions that enhance equipment operation and improve building functionality. Modernization offerings can range from relatively simple upgrades of interior finishes and aesthetics to complex upgrades of larger components and sub-systems. We provide our Service offerings to our customers through a global network of approximately 34,000 Service mechanics operating out of over 1,400 branches and offices typically located in close proximity to concentrations of customers. Our mechanics are critical to our ability to deliver a high level of service to our customers. Our OTISLINE operations provide personalized customer support 24/7. They receive customer service requests and assign and dispatch field technicians, as necessary, to respond to service requests. Our network of service parts centers, repair centers, and obsolescence management capabilities are key enablers to supporting customers by keeping their elevators and escalators in good working condition. Digital Technology initiatives Otis has been using technology to monitor elevator performance remotely for decades, culminating in our latest Otis ONE technology discussed under "New Equipment" above. We also offer multimedia subscription options with additional voice, data and video digital services to customers leveraging our IoT technologies. By the end of 2021, approximately 35% of our global portfolio is connected. In 2022, we expect to continue to innovate and expand our digital ecosystem and suite of digital solutions for both our existing service portfolio customers and for new equipment shipments from our factories. 6 Table of Contents Research and Development Intellectual Property Innovation is a fundamental characteristic of our history and is central to our strategy. For the year ended December 31, 2021, research and development ("R D") expense was $159 million and 1.1% as a percentage of net sales. In addition to research and development expense, we made investments in digital and strategic initiatives of approximately $59 million, which in combination with research and development expense was 1.5% as a percentage of net sales. We coordinate our R D efforts globally through an operating model that sets global and local priorities based on customer and segment needs. We have 11 R D centers and 18 factories around the world, including major locations in China, India, France, Spain and the United States. The R D centers are strategically located close to concentrations of customers and factories to enable efficient development of engineering solutions that can serve a s global model products and adapt quickly and efficiently to local customer needs and local demographic and construction trends. We have approximate ly 1,300 e ngineers globally, with increasing focus on digital initiatives, software, design of the user interface and the user experience. We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to the Otis business to protect our R D investments in products and services. We currently own approximately 3,700 globally issued patents, and we have approximately 2,700 patent applications pending globally, of which approximately 2,600 applicatio ns were filed in the last three years. Our patents are primarily filed in Europe, the United States and Asia. We believe that our patents and trade secrets create a competitive advantage and that we have taken reasonable measures to build a portfolio of valid and enforceable intellectual property rights. However, these intellectual property rights might be challenged and could be found invalid or unenforceable. Loss of strategic patents and trade secrets could significantly affect our competitiveness. See Item 1A in this Form 10-K for further discussion of intellectual property matters. Joint Ventures and Non-Wholly Owned Subsidiaries Our international strategic relationships, joint ventures and non-wholly owned subsidiaries are an important part of our business as they support our access to international markets and customers. Results of these entities are consolidated with our financial and operational results. In addition to China and Spain, as discussed below, we also operate through joint ventures and non-wholly owned subsidiaries in other countries, including Italy, Russia, Malaysia, and certain countries in the Middle East. China We operate in China through two principal joint ventures: Otis Elevator (China) Investment Company Limited ( Otis China ) and Otis Electric Elevator Company Limited ( Otis Electric ). Otis China is a joint venture established in 1998 for the purpose of manufacturing, installing and servicing elevators, escalators and related equipment. We are a majority owner of Otis China, and Tianjin Tai Kang Investment Co. Ltd. ( Tianjin Tai Kang ) is our joint venture partner. Otis Electric, a subsidiary of Otis China, is a joint venture established in 1997 for the purpose of manufacturing, installing and servicing elevators, escalators and related equipment. Otis China owns a controlling equity stake in Otis Electric. Otis China s partner in Otis Electric is Xizi Elevator Group Co. Zardoya Otis We conduct our operations based in Spain through Zardoya Otis S.A. ( Zardoya Otis ), which manufactures, installs and services elevators and elevator equipment in Spain, and exports elevator equipment it manufactures for installation by certain of our subsidiaries outside of Spain. Zardoya Otis shares are listed on Spanish stock exchanges, and the company is subject to the supervision of the Spanish Securities Exchange Commission (Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores (the "CNMV")). We own a majority equity stake in Zardoya Otis, with Euro Syns S.A. owning a minority position and the remaining shares being held by public shareholders. In September 2021, the Company announced a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Zardoya Otis not owned by Otis. See Item 1A and "Note 1: Business Overview" in Item 8 in this Form 10-K for further details regarding this pending transaction, including risks associated therewith. 7 Table of Contents Competition We operate in a global and highly competitive industry. Due to the global and localized nature of the industry, there are numerous pa rticipants of varying size that operate in our industry. According to industry estimates, there are hundreds of participants that offer New Equipment solutions and several thousand participants that offer maintenance and service solutions. In both the Ne w Equipment and Service segments, major competitors globally include KONE Oyj, Schindler Group and TK Elevator, while there are a number of additional competitors in the Asia Pacific region. Competitive dynamics vary significantly by segment and geogr aphy. In the Service segment, independent service providers and other small operators are significant competitors in most of our local geograph ies. These independent service providers have an aggregate portfolio of about 50% of service units, but account for a smaller percentage of the service business when measured by value because of the types of units and level of maintenance covered by these providers. There are several factors that determine competitiveness in the industry, including local codes and compliance requirements, customer preferences, price, reputation, delivery and execution, product quality, equipment performance, reliability and long-term service and product support. Our success in both our New Equipment and Service segments depends upon our ability to develop and market our products, services and solutions, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficien cy. We believe our global presence, local relationships and proven track record in executing complex elevator and escalator solutions contribute to our iconic brand, reputation and competitive position in the industry. We believe our business strategies sustain New Equipment growth, accelerate Service portfolio growth, advance the digitalization of Otis, focus and empower the organization, support our ability to successfully compete across the New Equipment and Service segments, and will help deliver sustainable earnings growth. Compliance with Government Regulations We conduct our business through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Any changes in legislation or government policies impacting our industry, including with respect to employee safety, labor-related regulations, industrial equipment, licensing requirements, foreign ownership limitations and building and elevator safety codes, can affect our operations. We closely monitor local legislation and government policies in the locations in which we operate. In addition, our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulations promulgated by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes and regulations for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. U.S. laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of Otis and its affiliates, as do those of other countries pertaining to similar matters. For further discussion of risks related to environmental matters and other government regulations, see in this Form 10-K Item 1A, Item 7 and "Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 22: Contingent Liabilities" in Item 8 in this Form 10-K. Seasonality Our business and operating results are generally not subject to significant fluctuations as a result of seasonality, although we have experienced lower New Equipment sales in Asia in the first calendar quarter, coinciding with Lunar New Year celebrations. In addition, we have also experienced lower New Equipment sales in the fourth quarter in China, due to a national holiday that occurs during the first week of October which may impact the relative mix of sales within the quarter. 8 Table of Contents Raw Materials and Supplies Due to the global and distributed nature of our operations, we partner with a diverse network of several thousand suppliers globally. These include product and non-product suppliers, as well as subcontractors. We rely on approximately 500 key s uppliers for our manufacturing supply chain. Components and systems necessary to effectively complete our New Equipment projects, as well as to satisfy our maintenance and repair obligations, are often available from two or more sources within the industry. While we believe no single supplier is material to our business, some components or applications require particular specifications or qualifications. In those cases, there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components, which have in the past, and could in the future, result in supply constraints or cost pressures due to an issue with such a supplier, including financial or operational difficulties or a contract dispute. Additionally, the slowdown of economic activity due to COVID-19 and subsequent ongoing recovery in certain regions, as well as the impact of COVID-19 more broadly on employment and the economy, have created long lead times and product shortages for certain components and supplier. We implemented mitigation actions to address potential disruption in and other risks relating to our supply chain, including the use of safety stock and alternative materials, as well as risk assessments, qualification of multiple supply sources and use of long term supplier agreements. Although at times high prices for some raw materials important to our business have caused margin and cost pressures for our business, including in connection with the impact of COVID-19-and the ongoing recovery, we do not expect near-term unavailability or pricing of materials, components or supplies that would have a material adverse effect on our business. We seek to manage commodity price risk through locking and hedging strategies, as well as passing the increases onto our customers through pricing. See Item 1A in this Form 10-K for risks associated with raw material and supply chain, as well as COVID-19. Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Otis is committed to working for the global good of our passengers, customers, colleagues and society. In order to align our ESG initiatives with our broader strategy, we completed a materiality assessment in 2020 to determine our most critical ESG areas for management, goal-setting and reporting. This allows us to focus on the topics most important to our business. We also became a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact in March 2021. Our ESG goals and alignment to U.N. Sustainable Development Goals are categorized into four areas: Health Safety, Environmental Impact, People Communities and Governance Accountability. We have published our ESG goals, which can be found in the Investor section of our corporate website. Additionally, we expect to publish an ESG report on our ES G activities, metrics and progress towards our goals starting in 2022. In 2022, our progress towards reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gases will be a factor in determining payouts under our executive short-term incentive plan. Our ESG goals and ESG report are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and will be available in the Investors section of our website (http://www.otis.com) under the heading "ESG". Also, see "Human Capital" below for additional information regarding certain ESG initiatives related to our colleagues, including health safety, employee engagement and diversity, equity and inclusion. There have been no, and we do not expect there to be in the near term, material impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations as a result of compliance with legislation or regulatory rules regarding climate change, from the known physical eff ects of climate change or as a result of implementing our ESG initiatives. Increased regulation and other climate change concerns, however, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, and we are not able to predict how su ch regulations or concerns would affect our business, operations or financial results. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, our global workforce consists of approximately 70,000 colleagues, with 42 % in Asia, 35 % in Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) and 22 % in the Americas. Approximately 63% of our workforce in the U.S. is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Outside of the U.S., our colleagues are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions as may be customary or required in those jurisdictions . While we strive to maintain good relationships with our employee representative bodies, our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. T he collective bargaining agreement for most of our bargaining unit colleagues in the U.S. was renewed without disruption in July 2017 and is 9 Table of Contents set to expire in July 2022. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, we do not anticipate that the renegotiation of this co ntract will have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. For a discussion of employment-related matters, see Item 1A in this Form 10-K. Compensation Our colleagues are vital to our success, and we offer pay and benefits designed to attract, retain and motivate our colleagues and align their compensation with both individual and our overall perfor