Item 1. Business 1 Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results 9 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer of Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 95 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 95 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 96 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 96 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 97 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 101 SIGNATURES 102 Table of Contents Otis Worldwide Corporation's and its subsidiaries' names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and product and service designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of Otis Worldwide Corporation and its subsidiaries. Names, abbreviations of names, logos, and product and service designators of other companies are either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of their respective owners. As used herein, the terms "we", "us", "our", "the Company" or "Otis", unless the context otherwise requires, mean Otis Worldwide Corporation and its subsidiaries. References to Internet websites in this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only. Information available through these websites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Otis is t he world s leading elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. We serve customers in ov er 200 countries and territories around t he world. Otis has global scale and local focus, with more than 1,400 branc hes and offices, and a direct physical presence in more than 70 co untries. The following description of our busin ess should be read in conjunction with Item 7 in this Form 10-K, including the information contained therein under the heading "Business Overview." Description of Business by Segment Our Company is organized into two segments, New Equipment and Service, which, for the year ended December 31, 2023, contributed 41% and 59% of our net sales, and 15% and 85% of our s egment operating profit, respectively. Our international operations represented appro ximately 72% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2023. New Equipment Through our New Equipment segment, we design, manufacture, sell and install a wide range of passenger and freight elevators, as well as escalators and moving walkways for residential, commercial and infrastructure projects. Our New Equipment customers include real estate and building developers and general contractors who develop and/or design buildings for residential, commercial, retail or mixed-use activity. We also sell New Equipment to government agencies, particularly, to support infrastructure projects, such as airports, railways or metros. We generally sell directly to our customers through our New Equipment sales personnel. Due to the nature of the customer base in China and certain other geographies, our direct sales force is augmented by agents and distributors. Given the breadth of our customer base and the large number of customers to whom we deliver new equipment on an annual basis, we are not dependent on any single customer and do not have any contracts material to Otis as a whole with any single customer. The same is true for our broad and geographically dispersed network of agents and distributors. New Equipment customers typically engage with us at an early stage during the construction cycle. The timing of order placement depends on factors including project complexity and customer requirements. Elevator installation usually occurs midway through building construction. New Equipment orders are generally delivered w ithin 12 months of booking, though larger projects can take longer to deliver based on customer construction schedules, and in some regions, mostly in China, the order to delivery window is shorter. When placing New Equipment orders, customers typically make an advance payment to cover costs including design and contract engineering. These advance payments are typically followed by periodic progress payments at specified milestones, such as delivery of materials at the job site and completion of installation and equipment commissioning. Installation is carried out by our installation technicians or through subcontractors, in which case we typically complete the final inspection and commissioning to ensure that our quality standards are met. Revenues are recognized based on percentage of completion. Once commissioned, New Equipment units are typically supported by a warranty for a limited period of time. 1 Table of Contents We have developed a range of elevator and escalator solutions to meet the varying needs and objectives of our diverse customers, primarily centered around the following platforms: Gen2 , Gen3 , Gen360 and SkyRise . Our primary elevator and escalator solutions are described below. Gen2 Historically, our principal low-and mid-rise elevator solution. Since its launch in 2000, we have sold over one million units, making it our best-selling elevator platform. Gen3 The successor to the Gen2 family of elevators, the Gen3 platform enhances the space-saving, energy-efficient design of the Gen2 elevator with the connectivity of the Otis ONE IoT (internet of things) digital service platform, while offering additional safety features for passengers and our colleagues who maintain the elevator. In 2023, we introduced the new Gen3 Core elevator in North America, which was designed specifically for low-rise buildings, bringing passengers connectivity, style, and comfort. The Gen3 Core helps minimize energy consumption, material usage and installation costs. Gen360 Initially launched in Europe, we have expanded the Gen360 elevator platform into China in 2023. The Gen360 elevator features a new electronic architecture, with many mechanical components replaced by electronic components that, in connection with our service, increase reliability, reduce the potential for entrapments and free hoistway space to accommodate larger cabins. A foldable, in-ceiling platform allows maintenance operations to be performed safely from within the car rather than on top of it and, depending on local regulations, eliminates the need for a refuge space above the car and the protrusion on the roof allowing for a flat roof design. With 360-degree cameras in the hoistway, Otis service teams can visually confirm, fine-tune, diagnose and solve many issues remotely without stopping the elevator. The Otis ONE IoT solution adds a network of sensors for real-time status updates. SkyRise For taller, high-rise buildings, the SkyRise advanced elevator platform combines cutting-edge technologies and precision engineering to deliver solutions for residential, commercial and mixed-use skyscrapers. In addition t o elevator solutions, we also offer escalators and moving walkways. With a range of finishes and aesthetics, Otis escalators integrate easily with building designs. Our smart design and features enhance sustainability and passenger safety, such as sensor-equipped escalators and moving walkways that efficiently run only when passengers approach, or operate at reduced speeds to conserve energy when there are no riders. Service Through our Service segment, we perform maintenance and repair services, as well as modernization services to upgrade elevators and escalators. We have a maintenance portfolio of approximately 2.3 million unit s globally, which includes Otis equipment manufactured and sold by us, as well as equipment from other original equipment manufacturers. Through our network of service sales personnel, we sell our services directly to customers in all significant elevator and escalator verticals around the world. Service customers typically comprise building owners, facility managers, housing associations and government agencies that operate buildings where elevators and escalators are installed. Customers securing services for elevators are frequently different from those who initially make purchasing decisions with respect to New Equipment solutions. As the largest service provider in the industry worldwide, we have a wide range of customers in our Service segment and do not have any single service contract that is material to Otis as a whole. Contract duration depends on several factors, including customer needs, regulatory requirements and industry/geography dynamics. We work closely with our customers to renew these contracts as appropriate. Certain types of customers, such as those owning or operating large properties or portfolios of properties, tend to execute long-term maintenance agreements. 2 Table of Contents We provide our Service offerings to our customers through a global network of 35,000 Service mechanics operating ou t of more than 1,400 bra nches and offices typically located in close proximity to concentrations of customers. Our mechanics are critical to our ability to deliver a high level of service to our customers. Our OTISLINE operations provide personalized customer support 24/7. They receive customer service requests and assign and dispatch field technicians, as necessary, to respond to service requests. We support our customers with our network of service parts centers and repair centers. Our services include inspections, preventive maintenance offerings and other customized maintenance offerings tailored to meet customer needs. A basic maintenance contract provides for inspection consistent with local regulatory needs. We offer incremental, tiered maintenance and service offerings, with varying levels of coverage up to and including comprehensive component replacement coverage. We also provide customers with repair services to address equipment and component wear and tear, as well as breakdowns. We seek to grow our maintenance portfolio through conversion of newly installed units into maintenance contracts, through prospecting and winning units already in service from customers using another service provider and through acquisitions. Our Service sales personnel seek to win service contracts upon the expiration or termination of existing service contracts from customers by offering a superior value proposition through service excellence, an engaged and technically sophisticated group of field service technicians, a streamlined customer experience and reliable elevator and escalator operating performance. Similar to most other electro-mechanical equipment, elevators and escalators are subject to wear and tear, which over time erodes equipment functionality. As elevator equipment ages, we work with customers to help renew or refresh their elevators with modernization solutions that enhance equipment operation, improve building functionality and contribute to more sustainable building systems. Modernization offerings can range from relatively simple upgrades of interior finishes and aesthetics to complex upgrades of larger components and sub-systems. Launched in 2023 in the Americas, our GEN3 MOD Plus modernization offering for residential, commercial, hospitality, medical or industrial buildings includes built-in connectivity to our Otis ONE IoT digital platform. Digital Technology initiatives Otis offers a range of technologies for improving the passenger experience and we have been using technology to monitor elevator performance remotely for decades. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 900,000 units of our global portfolio, including units under the warranty period, are connected. In 2024, we expect to continue to innovate and expand our digital ecosystem and suite of digital solutions for both our existing service portfolio customers and for new equipment shipments from our factories. Otis ONE is our latest cloud-based IoT technology, designed to continuously monitor equipment health and performance in real time to provide proactive, predictive and transparent information to our technicians and customers. The technology expands predictive and remote maintenance capabilities to support improved elevator up-time and service productivity. We offer additional technology and multimedia options to customers with voice, data and video digital services, leveraging our IoT technologies, as described below. These are often incorporated as an optional upgrade on maintenance contracts. eView Our in-car display streams live, customizable infotainment to passengers and can connect them to OTISLINE, Otis' 24-hour service call center, during an emergency. Compass 360 Our proprietary destination management system groups passengers by their desired destination and directs them to an assigned car that minimizes waiting and ride time. The system's algorithms anticipate traffic demand within a building and improve traffic flow. eCall Plus Otis' smartphone app enables passengers to summon their elevator remotely for a touchless experience. 3 Table of Contents Research and Development Intellectual Property Innovation is a fundamental characteristic of our history and is central to our strategy. For the year ended December 31, 2023 , research and development ("R D") expense wa s $144 million and 1.0% as a percentage of net sales. In addition to R D expense, we made investments in digital and strategic initiatives of $57 million, which in combination with R D expense was 1.4% as a percentage of net sales. We coordinate our R D efforts globally through an operating model that sets global and local priorities based on customer and segment needs. We have 11 R D centers and 17 factories around the world, including major locations in China, India, Japan, France, Germany, Spain and the United States. The R D centers are strategically located close to concentrations of customers and factories to enable efficient development of engineering solutions that can serve a s global model products and adapt quickly and efficiently to local customer needs and local demographic and construction trends. We have 1,200 engi neers globally, with increasing focus on digital initiatives, software, design of the user interface and the user experience. We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to the Otis business to protect our R D investments in products and services. We currently own approximately 5,000 patents issued in various jurisdictions, and we have approximately 1,800 patent applications pending globally. We filed approximately 1,000 patent applicatio ns in the last three years. Our patents are primarily filed in Europe, the United States and Asia. We believe that our patents and trade secrets create a competitive advantage and that we have taken reasonable measures to build a portfolio of valid and enforceable intellectual property rights. However, these intellectual property rights might be challenged and could be found invalid or unenforceable. Loss of strategic patents and trade secrets could significantly affect our competitiveness. See Item 1A in this Form 10-K for further discussion of intellectual property matters. Joint Ventures and Non-Wholly Owned Subsidiaries Our international strategic relationships, joint ventures and non-wholly owned subsidiaries are an important part of our business as they support our access to international markets and customers. Results of these entities are consolidated with our financial and operational results. Our largest joint ventures are located in China with the remainder of our joint ventures and non-wholly owned subsidiaries located in various other countries. We operate in China through two principal joint ventures: Otis Elevator (China) Investment Company Limited ( Otis China ) and Otis Electric Elevator Company Limited ( Otis Electric ). Otis China is a joint venture established in 1998 for the purpose of manufacturing, installing and servicing elevators, escalators and related equipment. We are a majority owner of Otis China, and Tianjin Tai Kang Investment Co. Ltd. is our joint venture partner. Otis Electric, a subsidiary of Otis China, is a joint venture established in 1997 for the purpose of manufacturing, installing and servicing elevators, escalators and related equipment. Otis China owns a controlling equity stake in Otis Electric. Otis China s partner in Otis Electric is Xizi Elevator Group Co. Competition We operate in a global and highly competitive industry. Due to the global and localized nature of the industry, there are numerous pa rticipants of varying size that operate in our industry. According to industry estimates, there are hundreds of participants that offer New Equipment solutions and several thousand participants that offer maintenance and service solutions. In both the Ne w Equipment and Service segments, major competitors globally include KONE Oyj, Schindler Group and TK Elevator, while there are a number of additional competitors in the Asia Pacific region. Competitive dynamics vary significantly by segment and geogr aphy. In the Service segment, independent service providers and other small operators are significant competitors in most of our local geograph ies. These independent service providers have an aggregate portfolio of about 50% of service units, but account for a smaller percentage of the service business when measured by value because of the types of units and level of maintenance covered by these providers. 4 Table of Contents There are several factors that determine competitiveness in the industry, including local codes and compliance requirements, customer preferences, price, reputation, delivery and execution, product quality, equipment performance, reliability and long-term service and product support. Our success in both our New Equipment and Service segments depends upon our ability to develop and market our products, services and solutions, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficien cy. We believe our global presence, local relationships and proven track record in executing complex elevator and escalator solutions contribute to our iconic brand, reputation and competitive position in the industry. We believe our business strategies allow us to sustain New Equipment growth, accelerate Service portfolio growth, deliver modernization value, advance the digitalization of Otis, focus and empower the organization, support our ability to successfully compete across the New Equipment and Service segments, and help deliver sustainable earnings growth. The Company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. For further discussion of risks related to the competitive environment of our business, see Item 1A in this Form 10-K. Compliance with Government Regulations We conduct our business through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Any changes in legislation or government policies impacting our industry, including with respect to employee safety, labor-related regulations, industrial equipment, licensing requirements, foreign ownership limitations and building and elevator safety codes, can affect our operations. We closely monitor local legislation and government policies in the locations in which we operate. In addition, our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulations promulgated by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes and regulations for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. United States (the "U.S.") laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of Otis and its affiliates, as do those of other countries pertaining to similar matters. For further discussion of risks related to environmental matters and other government regulations, see in this Form 10-K Item 1A, Item 7 and "Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 21: Contingent Liabilities" in Item 8 in this Form 10-K. Seasonality Our business and operating results are generally not subject to significant fluctuations as a result of seasonality, although we have experienced lower New Equipment net sales in Asia in the first calendar quarter, coinciding with Lunar New Year celebrations. In addition, we have also experienced lower New Equipment net sales in the fourth quarter in China, due to a national holiday that occurs during the first week of October which may impact the relative mix of net sales within the quarter. Raw Materials and Supplies Due to the global and distributed nature of our operations, we partner with a diverse network of several thousand suppliers globally. These include product and non-product suppliers, as well as subcontractors. We rely on approximate ly 500 key suppliers for our manufacturing supply chain. Components and systems necessary to effectively complete our New Equipment projects, as well as to satisfy our maintenance and repair obligations, are often available from two or more sources within the industry. While we believe no single supplier is material to our business, some components or applications require particular specifications or qualifications. In those cases, there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components, which have in the past, and could in the future, result in supply constraints or cost pressures due to an issue with such a supplier, including financial or operational difficulties or a contract dispute. We implement mitigation actions to address potential disruption in and other risks relating to our supply chain, including the use of safety stock and alternative materials, as well as risk assessments, qualification of multiple supply sources and use of long-term supplier agreements. 5 Table of Contents Although at times high prices for some important raw materials have caused margin and cost pressures for our business, we do not expect near-term unavailability or pricing of materials, components or supplies that would have a material adverse effect on our business. We seek to manage commodity price risk through locking and hedging strategies, as well as passing the increases onto our customers through pricing. See Item 1A in this Form 10-K for risks associated with raw material and supply chain. Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") ESG is part of our culture and embedded in our long-term strategy. The principles of ESG align with the foundation of our business: our Absolutes of Safety, Ethics, and Quality. We are committed to the health and safety of our colleagues and the riding public. We strive to reduce the environmental impact of our own products, operations and services and those of our customers. We foster a culture that embraces all voices and diverse points of view and proactively engages in the communities we serve. See "Human Capital" below for additional information regarding certain ESG initiatives related to our colleagues, including health and safety, employee engagement and inclusion. In 2021, we became a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact and published our thirteen ESG goals (including the four Environment Impact goals below) aligned with the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals ("SDGs"). Our ESG goals and alignment to SDGs are categorized into four areas: Health Safety, Environment Impact, People Communities and Governance Accountability. We set goals within each of these areas and aligned them to the U.N. SDGs on which we can have the greatest impact. Our Environment Impact goals are as follows: Achieve a 50% reduction of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2030 Reach carbon neutrality for factory electricity by 2030 Achieve 100% factory eligibility for zero-waste-to-landfill certification by 2025 Complete ISO 14001 certification for all factories by 2025 (goal completed in 2021) In April 2023, we published our second annual ESG report on our ES G activities, metrics and progress towards our goals in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, as well as in alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board guidelines and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. On November 9, 2023, we announced our commitment to setting near-term science-based greenhouse gas ("GHG") reduction targets, which we formally submitted to the Science Based Target Initiative ("SBTi") for evaluation. Our submission includes proposed GHG emissions reduction targets for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, against a 2021 baseline. Our ESG goals and ESG reports can be found in the Investor section of our corporate website (http://www.otis.com) under the heading "ESG", which we update from time to time. Our ESG goals, our ESG reports and our corporate website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors and its committees engage in extensive review and oversight of ESG-related topics. The Company's ESG Council monitors our performance towards our ESG goals. The ESG Council is composed of senior leaders representing multiple functions within the Company, including Communications, Engineering, Environment, Health Safety, Human Resources, Investor Relations, Legal, Quality Continuous Improvement and Supply Chain. Also, an internal ESG Working Group, comprised of subject matter experts, assists the ESG Council in developing and effectuating the Company's ESG strategy. Both the ESG Council and ESG Working Group meet regularly, with the ESG Council reporting regularly to our CEO on our ESG progress and actions. Our progress towards our ESG goals was included as a performance multiplier in determining payouts under our 2023 executive short-term incentive plan. There have been no, and we do not expect there to be in the near term, material impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations as a result of compliance with legislation or regulatory rules regarding climate change, from the known physical eff ects of climate change or as a result of implementing our ESG initiatives. Increased regulation (including the pending Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and European Union requirements) and other climate change concerns, however, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, and we are not able to predict how su ch regulations or concerns would affect our business, operations or financial results. For a discussion of risks associated with ESG matters, see Item 1A in this Form 10-K. 6 Table of Contents Human Capital As of December 31, 2023, our global workforce consists of 71,000 colleagues (including 42,000 field professionals), with 44% in Asia, 33% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) and 23% in the Americas. Approximately 63% of our U.S. workforce is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Out side of the U.S., our colleagues are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions as may be customary or required in those jurisdictions . While we strive to maintain good relationships with our employee representative bodies, our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. T he collective bargaining agreement for most of our bargaining unit colleagues in the U.S. was renewed without disruption in July 2022 and is set to expire in July 2027. For a discussion of risks associated with employment-related matters, see Item 1A in this Form 10-K. Compensation Our colleagues are vital to our success, and we offer pay and benefits designed to attract, retain and motivate our colleagues and align their compensation with both individual and our overall performance. While our programs vary by location and eligibility, they include base and overtime pay, short-term incentive bonuses, long-term incentive pay in the form of stock awards, retirement plan benefits, health care and insurance benefits, tuition assistance through our Employee Scholar program, paid sick, bereavement, vacation, parental and family leaves, and wellness and employee assistance programs. Health and Safety Safety is one of the Otis Absolutes. For that reason, safety measures and indicators are regularly monitored by management and reported to our Board of Directors. To promote safety, we have a health and safety management system and regularly measure the effectiveness of our health and safety programs. We also provide