Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 37 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements w ith Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 98 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 99 Item 9B. Other Information 99 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 100 Item 11. Executive Compensation 100 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 100 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 100 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 100 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 101 Signatures 105 - 2 - Table of Contents PART I SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our expectations regarding the impacts on our business, the business of our customers, suppliers and partners, and the economy as a result of the global COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures; expectations regarding drivers of and factors affecting growth in our business; the performance advantages of our products and subscription and support offerings and the potential benefits to our customers; trends in and expectations regarding billings, revenue (including our revenue mix), costs of revenue, gross margin, cash flows, interest expense, operating expenses (including future share-based compensation expense), income taxes, investment plans and liquidity; our ability to and expectation that we will continue to grow our installed end-customer base; expected recurring revenues resulting from expected growth in our installed base and increased adoption of our products and cloud-based subscription services; our expectations regarding future investments in research and development, customer support, in our employees and in our sales force, including expectations regarding growth in our sales headcount; our ability to develop or acquire new product, subscription, and support offerings, improve our existing product, subscription, and support offerings, and increase the value of our product, subscription, and support offerings, including through deployment of new capabilities via security applications developed by third parties; our expectation that we will continue to expand internationally; our expectation that we will continue to renew existing contracts and increase sales to our existing customer base; seasonal trends in our results of operations; expected impact of the adoption of certain recent accounting pronouncements and the anticipated timing of adopting such standards; our expectation that we will expand our facilities or add new facilities as we add employees and enter new geographic markets and expectations related to charges incurred in connection with exiting our former headquarter facilities; our expectation that we will increase our customer financing activities; the sufficiency of our cash flow from operations with existing cash and cash equivalents to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future; future investments in product development, subscriptions, or technologies, and any related delays in the development or release of new product and subscription offerings; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate companies and assets, including closing The Crypsis Group acquisition; expectations and intentions with respect to the products and technologies that we acquire and introduce; the timing and amount of capital expenditures and share repurchases; and other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form - 3 - Table of Contents 10-K may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Palo Alto Networks, Inc. is a global cybersecurity provider with a vision of a world where each day is safer and more secure than the one before. We were incorporated in 2005 and are headquartered in Santa Clara, California. We empower enterprises, service providers, and government entities to secure all users, applications, data, networks and devices with comprehensive visibility and context continuously across all locations. We deliver cybersecurity products covering a broad range of use cases, enabling our end-customers to secure their networks, remote workforce, access to the service edge, branch locations, public and private clouds, and to advance their Security Operations Centers ( SOC ). We believe our portfolio offers advanced prevention and security, while reducing the total cost of ownership for organizations by improving operational efficiency and eliminating the need for siloed point products. We do this with solutions focused on delivering value in three fundamental areas: Secure the Enterprise: Secure the network through our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls, available in a number of form factors, including physical, virtual and containerized appliances, as well as a cloud-delivered service, with Panorama management available as an appliance or as a virtual machine for the public or private cloud. This also includes security services such as Threat Prevention, WildFire, URL Filtering, DNS Security, IoT Security, GlobalProtect , SD-WAN and Data Loss Prevention that are delivered as S aaS subscriptions to our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls. Secure the Cloud: Secure the cloud through our Prisma security offerings, such as Prisma Cloud, the industry s most comprehensive Cloud Native Security Platform ( CNSP ), protecting applications, data and the entire cloud native technology stack, throughout the full development lifecycle and across multi- and hybrid- cloud environments, Prisma SaaS for protecting SaaS applications, Prisma Access, a comprehensive Secure Access Service Edge ( SASE ) offering, that, together with CloudGenix SD-WAN, securing SD-WAN to enable the cloud delivered branch, and VM-Series and CN-Series for in-line network security in multi- and hybrid- cloud environments. Secure the Future: Secure the future of security operations through our Cortex security offerings, which includes Cortex XDR for prevention, detection and response, Cortex XSOAR for security orchestration, automation and response ( SOAR ), AutoFocus for threat intelligence, and Cortex Data Lake to collect and integrate security data for analytics. These products are delivered as software or SaaS subscriptions. Impact of COVID-19 on our Business We are actively monitoring, evaluating and responding to developments relating to COVID-19, which has and is expected to result in continued significant global social and business disruption. While we instituted a global work-from-home policy beginning in March 2020, we did not incur significant disruptions in our work operations during fiscal 2020. We are conducting business as usual with restrictions to employee travel and transitioning of in-person marketing events to virtual formats, among other modifications. These changes will substantially remain in effect in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and are likely to extend to future quarters. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and will make further changes to our business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, end-customers, partners, suppliers and stockholders. Our focus remains on the safety of our employees, striving to protect the health and well-being of the communities in which we operate, and providing technology to our employees, end-customers and partners to help them do their best work while remote. Although some end-customers adopted Prisma Access as their secure work-from-home solution for the longer term, COVID-19 may curtail our end-customers' spending and could lead them to delay or defer purchasing decisions, and lengthen sales cycles and payment terms, which could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and overall financial performance. Also, certain of our end-customers or partners may be or may become credit or cash constrained making it difficult for them to fulfill their payment obligations to us. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our operational and financial performance will depend on developments, including the duration and spread of the virus, impact on our end-customers spending, volume of sales and length of our sales cycles, impact on our partners, suppliers and employees, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities and other factors identified in Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K. Given the dynamic nature of these circumstances, the full impact of COVID-19 on our ongoing business, results of operations and overall financial performance cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. - 4 - Table of Contents Product, Subscription, and Support Offerings Our products are available in the form of the product, subscription, and support offerings described below. Firewall Appliances and Software . All of our firewall appliances and software incorporate our PAN-OS operating system and come with the same rich set of features ensuring consistent operation across our entire product line. These features include: App-ID, User-ID, Content-ID, site-to-site virtual private network ( VPN ), remote access Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) VPN, and Quality-of-Service ( QoS ). Our appliances and software are designed for different performance requirements throughout an organization and are classified based on throughput, ranging from our PA-220, which is designed for small organizations and remote or branch offices, to our top-of-the-line PA-7080, which is designed for large scale data centers and service provider use. Our firewall appliances come in a physical form factor, in a virtual form factor, called VM-Series, that is available for virtualization and cloud environments from companies such as VMware, Inc. ( VMware ), Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ), Amazon.com, Inc. ( Amazon ), and Google, Inc. ( Google ), and in Kernel-based Virtual Machine ( KVM )/OpenStack environments, as well as in a containerized form factor, called CN-Series. Panorama. Panorama is our centralized security management solution for global control of all of our firewall appliances and software deployed on an end-customer s network, as well as in their instances in public or private cloud environments as a virtual appliance or a physical appliance. Panorama is used for centralized policy management, device management, software licensing and updates, centralized logging and reporting, and log storage. Panorama controls the security, network address translation ( NAT ), QoS, policy-based forwarding, decryption, application override, captive portal, and distributed denial of service/denial of service ( DDoS/DoS ) protection aspects of the appliances, software, virtual and containerized systems under management. Panorama centrally manages device software and associated updates, including SSL-VPN clients, SD-WAN, dynamic content updates, and software licenses. Panorama offers network security monitoring through the ability to view logs and run reports from all managed appliances and software in one location without the need to forward the logs and reliably expands log storage for long-term event investigation and analysis. Virtual System Upgrades . Virtual System Upgrades are available as extensions to the Virtual System capacity that ships with our physical appliances. Virtual Systems provide a mechanism to support multiple distinct security policies and administrative access for tenants on the same hardware device, which is applicable to our large enterprise and service provider end-customers. Subscription Offerings . We offer a number of subscriptions as part of our portfolio. Of these subscription offerings, Threat Prevention, WildFire, URL Filtering, DNS Security, IoT Security, GlobalProtect, SD-WAN and Data Loss Prevention are sold as options to our firewall appliances and software, whereas AutoFocus, Prisma Access (formerly GlobalProtect cloud service), CloudGenix SD-WAN, Prisma Cloud (formerly Redlock Inc. ( RedLock ), Twistlock LTD. ( Twistlock ), PureSec Ltd. ( PureSec ) and Aporeto Inc. ( Aporeto )), Prisma SaaS (formerly Aperture), Cortex Data Lake (formerly Logging Service), Cortex XDR (formerly Cortex XDR and Traps) and Cortex XSOAR (formerly Demisto Inc. ( Demisto )) are sold on a per-user, per-endpoint, or capacity-based basis. Our subscription offerings include: Secure the Enterprise: Threat Prevention. This subscription provides intrusion detection and prevention capabilities and blocks vulnerability exploits, viruses, spyware, buffer overflows, denial-of-service attacks, and port scans from compromising and damaging enterprise information resources. It includes mechanisms such as protocol decoder-based analysis, protocol anomaly-based protection, stateful pattern matching, statistical anomaly detection, heuristic-based analysis, custom vulnerability and spyware phone home signatures, and workflows to manage popular open-source signature formats to extend our leading coverage. WildFire. This cloud-based or appliance-based subscription provides protection against targeted malware and advanced persistent threats and provides a near real-time analysis engine for detecting previously unseen malware while resisting attacker evasion techniques. The core component of this subscription is a sandbox environment that can operate on an end-customers private cloud or our public cloud, where files can be run and monitored for more than 100 behavioral characteristics that identify the file as malware. A machine learning module derived from the cloud sandbox environment is now delivered in-line on the ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls to identify the majority of unknown threats without cloud connectivity. Once identified, whether in the cloud or in-line, preventive measures are automatically generated and delivered to all subscribed devices in seconds or less. By providing this as a cloud-based subscription, all of our end-customers benefit from malware found on any of our end-customer s networks. URL Filtering. This subscription provides the uniform resource locator ( URL ) filtering capabilities of our portfolio. Our cloud-based URL filtering database consists of millions of URLs across many categories and is designed to analyze web traffic and prevent web-based threats such as phishing, malware, and command-and-control. The curated on-appliance URL database can be augmented to suit the traffic patterns of the local user community with a custom URL database. Our cloud-delivered service features network-based phishing protection, including a machine learning module delivered inline on our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls. These machine learning techniques can detect and stop never before seen threats and evasive phishing before they reach users or endpoints. Native integration with our ML- - 5 - Table of Contents powered Next-Generation Firewalls eliminates the need for customers to deploy and manage their web security separately from network security. DNS Security. This cloud-based subscription uses machine learning to proactively block malicious domains and stops attacks in progress. Unlike other solutions, it does not require endpoint routing configurations to be maintained and therefore cannot be by-passed. It allows firewalls access to DNS signatures that are generated using advanced predictive analysis, machine learning, and malicious domain data from a growing threat intelligence sharing community of which we are a part. Expanded categorization of DNS traffic and comprehensive analytics allow deep insights into threats, empowering security personnel with the context to optimize their security posture. IoT Security. IoT Security is a new subscription on our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls with backward compatibility to older versions of PAN-OS. Using machine learning and our App-ID technology, it can accurately identify and classify various IoT and operational technology ( OT ) devices including never-been-seen-before devices, mission critical OT devices and unmanaged legacy systems. It uses machine learning to baseline normal behavior, identify anomalous activity, assess risk, and provide policy recommendations to allow trusted behavior with a new Device-ID policy construct on our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls. Our existing subscription-based security services have also been enhanced with IoT context to prevent threats on various devices, including IoT and OT devices. GlobalProtect. This appliance-based subscription provides protection for users of both traditional laptop and mobile devices. It expands the boundaries of the end-users physical network, effectively establishing a logical perimeter that encompasses remote laptop and mobile device users irrespective of their location. When a remote user logs into the device, GlobalProtect automatically determines the closest gateway available to the roaming device and establishes a secure connection. Regardless of the operating systems, laptops, tablets and phones will stay connected to the corporate network when they are on a network of any kind and as a result, are protected as if they never left the corporate campus. GlobalProtect ensures that the same secure application enablement policies that protect users at the corporate site are enforced for all users, independent of their location. SD-WAN. Our SD-WAN subscription is now integrated with PAN-OS, so that our end-customers can get the security features of our PAN-OS ML-powered Next Generation Firewall together with SD-WAN functionality. The SD-WAN overlay supports dynamic, intelligent path selection based on the applications, services and conditions of the links that each application or service is allowed to use, allowing applications to be prioritized based on criteria such as whether the application is mission-critical, latency-sensitive, or meets certain health criteria. Data Loss Prevention. Our Enterprise Data Loss Prevention service is a cloud service that provides consistent, reliable protection of sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information (PII) and intellectual property, for all traffic types, applications, and users. Native integration with our products makes it simple to deploy, and advanced machine learning minimizes management complexity. Enterprise DLP allows organizations to consistently discover, classify, monitor, and protect sensitive data, wherever it may reside. It helps minimize the risk of a data breach both on-premises and in the cloud such as in Office/Microsoft 365 , Salesforce , and Box and assists in meeting stringent data privacy and compliance regulations, including GDPR, CCPA, PCI DSS, HIPAA, and others. Secure the Cloud: Prisma Cloud. Prisma Cloud is the industry s most comprehensive CNSP, securing public clouds and cloud native applications. Prisma Cloud delivers cloud security posture management and a cloud workload protection platform that provides comprehensive visibility and threat detection across an organization's hybrid, multi-cloud infrastructure. Prisma SaaS. Prisma SaaS is a multi-mode, cloud access security broker service that helps govern sanctioned SaaS application usage across all users and helps prevent breaches and non-compliance. Specifically, the service enables the discovery and classification of data stored across the supported SaaS applications, protects sensitive data from accidental exposure, identifies and protects against known and unknown malware, and performs user activity monitoring to identify potential misuse or data exfiltration. It delivers complete visibility and granular enforcement across all user, folder, and file activity within sanctioned SaaS applications. Prisma Access. This cloud-based subscription enables our end-customers to utilize the preventive capabilities of our portfolio to secure remote offices and mobile users, providing consistent protection across globally distributed network and cloud environments without the need for firewall appliances or software in the remote locations. With this offering, our end-customers can quickly and easily add or remove remote locations and users, and establish and adjust security policies as needed, using a multi-tenant, cloud-based security infrastructure that we operate on their behalf. CloudGenix SD-WAN . Our CloudGenix SD-WAN solution is a next-generation SD-WAN solution that makes the secure cloud-delivered branch possible. Unlike legacy SD-WAN solutions that introduce cost and complexity, Our CloudGenix - 6 - Table of Contents SD-WAN ensures exceptional user experience with app defined policies and simplifies network and security operations using machine learning and automation. Secure the Future: Cortex XDR. This cloud-based subscription enables organizations to identify and stop the most sophisticated attacks by applying AI and machine learning to context rich network, endpoint, and cloud data, to quickly find and stop targeted attacks, insider abuse, and compromised endpoints. Cortex XDR is comprised of XDR Prevent and XDR Pro. XDR Prevent delivers enterprise class endpoint security focused on preventing attacks. XDR Pro encompasses endpoint detection and response ( EDR ) and cross-data source analytics including network and identity data. These capabilities build on each other, such that a customer can start with XDR Prevent, then upgrade to XDR Pro for EDR and then upgrade to XDR Pro for cross-data source analytics. Cortex XSOAR. Available as a cloud-based subscription or an on-premises appliance, Cortex XSOAR is the industry s first extended SOAR offering that unifies playbook automation, case management, real-time collaboration, and threat intelligence management to serve security teams across the incident lifecycle. With Cortex XSOAR, security teams can standardize processes, automate repeatable tasks and manage incidents across their security product stack to improve response time and analyst productivity. Cortex XSOAR is powered by our machine learning bot, DBot, which ingests information about indicators to determine if they are malicious. It learns from the real-life analyst interactions and past investigations to help SOC teams with analyst assignment suggestions, playbook enhancements, and best next steps for investigations. AutoFocus. This cloud-based subscription provides threat intelligence capabilities to our end-customers security operations teams. Indicators of compromise and anomalies that occur on an end-customer s network can be correlated with similar data that has been centrally collected from all our participating end-customers. This offers our end-customers priority alerts, deep attack context, and high-fidelity threat intelligence across millions of malware samples and tens of billions of file artifacts. This includes a direct pipeline to actionable intelligence from Unit 42, our threat research team. AutoFocus can inform users if adversaries and campaigns discovered by Unit 42 have targeted the end-user s network, or similar networks. Cortex Data Lake. This cloud-based subscription allows our customers to collect large amounts of context-rich enhanced network logs generated by our security offerings, including those of our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls, Prisma Access subscription, and Cortex XDR subscription, without needing to plan for local data storage. Support. We offer Standard Support, Premium Support, four-hour Premium Support and Platinum Support to our end-customers and channel partners. Our channel partners that operate a Palo Alto Networks Authorized Support Center ( ASC ) typically deliver level-one and level-two support. We provide level-three support 24 hours a day, seven days a week through regional support centers that are located worldwide. We also offer an annual subscription-based Service Account Management ( SAM ) service that provides support for end-customers with unique or complex support requirements. We offer our end-customers ongoing support for both hardware and software in order to receive ongoing security updates, PAN-OS upgrades, bug fixes, and repair. End-customers typically purchase these services for a one-year or longer term at the time of the initial product sale and typically renew for successive one-year or longer periods. Additionally, we provide expedited replacement for any defective hardware. We use a third-party logistics provider to manage our worldwide deployment of spare appliances and other accessories. Professional Services. Professional services are delivered directly by us and through our authorized channel partners to our end-customers and include on-location and remote, hands-on experts who plan, design, and deploy effective security solutions tailored to our end-customers specific requirements. These services include architecture design and planning, configuration, and firewall migrations, as well as Prisma and Cortex deployments. Our education services provide online and in-classroom training and are also primarily delivered through our authorized training partners. Technology We provide comprehensive and integrated cybersecurity solutions with a portfolio that eliminates the need for siloed security products. ML-powered Next-Generation Firewall. Our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls embed machine learning in the core of the firewall, empowering our customers to stay ahead of new emerging threats, see and secure their entire enterprise, including IoT, and support speed and error reduction with automatic policy recommendations. Our ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls extend visibility and security to all devices connecting to an end-user s network, including unmanaged IoT devices without the need to deploy additional sensors. Our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls inspect all traffic defined by the end-users policies, including all applications, threats, and content, and tie that traffic to the user, regardless of location or device type. The user, application, devices and content the elements that run a business become integral components of an enterprise's security policy via our User-ID, App-ID, Device-ID and Content-ID technology. As a result, security aligns with business policies as well as write rules that are easy to understand and maintain. Our ML-powered Next-Generation Firewalls can be deployed in multiple form factors, including hardware, software and cloud service, all managed centrally. - 7 - Table of Contents Prisma Access. Prisma Access is a SASE technology that helps organizations deliver consistent security to remote networks and mobile users. Located in more than 100 locations around the world in 76 countries, Prisma Access consistently inspects all traffic across all ports and provides bidirectional networking to enable branch-to-branch and branch-to-headquarter traffic. Delivering protection at scale, Prisma Access provides global coverage so teams do not have to worry about sizing and deploying hardware firewalls at the branch. Prisma Access uses Cortex Data Lake for centralized analysis, reporting, and forensics. CloudGenix SD-WAN . CloudGenix SD-WAN provides deep application visibility, with Layer 7 intelligence for network policy creation and traffic engineering, ensuring exceptional user experience by enabling network teams to deliver Service Level Agreements ( SLA s) for all apps including Cloud, SaaS and Unified communication as a Service ( UCaaS ). Machine learning and data science methodologies automate operations and problems avoidance to simplify network operations and reduce network trouble tickets. Prisma