Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 37 Item 2. Properties 39 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 39 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 39 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 Item 6. [Reserved] 42 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 96 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 96 Item 9B. Other Information 97 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 97 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 98 Item 11. Executive Compensation 98 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 98 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 98 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 98 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 99 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 103 Signatures 104 - 2 - Table of Contents Part I SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, potentially, projects, will, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: expectations regarding the cybersecurity landscape; expectations regarding our platformization strategy and related progress and opportunities; expectations regarding annual recurring revenue and product development strategy; expectations regarding artificial intelligence; expectations regarding our strategic partnerships; expectations regarding drivers of and factors affecting growth in our business; statements regarding expected profitability, our mix of product and subscription and support revenue, cost of revenue, gross margin, cash flows, operating expenses, including future share-based compensation expense, income taxes, investment plans, and liquidity; expected recurring revenues resulting from growth in our end-customers and increased adoption of our products and cloud-delivered security solutions; the performance advantages of our products and subscription and support offerings and the potential benefits to our customers; expectations regarding future investments in research and development and product development, customer support, in our employees and in our sales force, including expectations regarding growth in our sales headcount; expectations that we will continue to expand our global presence; expectations regarding our revenues, including the seasonality and cyclicality from quarter to quarter; the sufficiency of our cash flow from operations with existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate companies and assets and our expectations and intentions with respect to the products and technologies that we acquire and introduce; the timing and amount of capital expenditures and share repurchases; the effects of worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions, including but not limited to hostilities in Israel and the surrounding region, inflation, interest rate levels, growth rates and other conditions, on our operating and financial results and performance; the effects of litigation or regulatory developments involving us or affecting our industry; and other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. - 3 - Table of Contents Item 1. Business General Palo Alto Networks, Inc. is a global cybersecurity provider with a vision of a world where each day is safer and more secure than the one before. We were incorporated in 2005 and are headquartered in Santa Clara, California. We empower enterprises, organizations, service providers, and government entities to protect themselves against today s most sophisticated cyber threats. Our cybersecurity platforms and services help secure enterprise users, networks, clouds, and endpoints by delivering comprehensive cybersecurity backed by artificial intelligence ( AI ) and automation. A key element of our strategy is to help our customers simplify their security architectures through consolidating disparate point products. We execute on this strategy by developing our capabilities and packaging our offerings into platforms which are able to cover many of our customers needs in the markets in which we operate. Our platformization strategy combines various products and services into a tightly integrated architecture and makes security faster, less complex, and more cost-effective. We focus on delivering value in four sectors of the cybersecurity industry: Network Security: Our network security platform, designed to deliver complete zero trust solutions to our customers, includes our hardware and software ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls, AI Runtime Security, as well as a cloud-delivered Secure Access Service Edge ( SASE ). Prisma Access, our Security Services Edge ( SSE ) solution, when combined with Prisma SD-WAN, provides a comprehensive single-vendor SASE offering that is used to secure remote workforces and securely enable the cloud-delivered branch. Our network security platform also includes our cloud-delivered security services, such as Advanced Threat Prevention, Advanced WildFire , Advanced URL Filtering, Advanced DNS Security, IoT/OT Security, GlobalProtect , Enterprise Data Loss Prevention ( Enterprise DLP ), AI for IT Operations ( AIOps ), SaaS Security, and AI Access Security. Through these add-on security services, our customers are able to secure their content, applications, users, and devices across their entire organization. Strata Cloud Manager, our network security management solution, can centrally manage our network security platform irrespective of form factor, location, or scale. Strata Cloud Manager includes the Strata Copilot which provides a natural language interface to simplify and accelerate platform management. Cloud Security: We deliver scalable and comprehensive security across the cloud application development lifecycle through our Code to Cloud TM platform, Prisma Cloud. As a comprehensive Cloud Native Application Protection Platform ( CNAPP ), Prisma Cloud secures multi- and hybrid-cloud environments for applications, data, generative AI ( GenAI ) ecosystem, and the entire cloud native technology stack across the full development lifecycle, from code to cloud. We also offer our VM-Series and CN-Series virtual firewalls for inline network security on multi- and hybrid-cloud environments. Security Operations: We deliver the next generation of security operations capabilities that combine security analytics, endpoint security, automation, and attack surface management ( ASM ) solutions through our Cortex platform. These include Cortex XSIAM , our AI-driven security operations platform, Cortex XDR for the prevention, detection, and response to complex cybersecurity attacks, Cortex XSOAR for security orchestration, automation, and response ( SOAR ), and Cortex Xpanse for ASM. These products are delivered as software as a service ( SaaS ) or software subscriptions. Threat Intelligence and Advisory Services (Unit 42): Unit 42 brings together world-renowned threat researchers with an elite team of incident responders and security consultants to create an intelligence-driven, response-ready organization to help customers manage cyber risk. Our consultants serve as trusted advisors to our customers by assessing and testing their security controls against the right threats, transforming their security strategy with a threat-informed approach, and responding to security incidents on behalf of our clients. Additionally, Unit 42 offers managed detection and response and managed threat hunting services. - 4 - Table of Contents Product, Subscription, and Support Our customer offerings are available in the form of the product, subscription, and support offerings described below: PRODUCTS Hardware and software firewalls. Our ML-Powered Next Generation Firewalls embed machine learning in the core of the firewall and employ inline deep learning in the cloud, empowering our customers to stop zero-day threats in real time, see and secure their entire enterprise including Internet of Things ( IoT ), and reduce errors with automatic policy recommendations. All of our hardware and software firewalls incorporate our PAN-OS operating system and come with the same rich set of features, ensuring consistent operation across our entire product line. The content, applications, users, and devices the elements that run a business become integral components of an enterprise s security policy via our Content-ID , App-ID , User-ID , and Device-ID technologies. In addition to these components, key features include site-to-site virtual private network ( VPN ), remote access Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) VPN, and Quality-of-Service. Our appliances and software are designed for different performance requirements throughout an organization and are classified based on throughput, ranging from our PA-410, which is designed for small organizations and branch offices, to our top-of-the-line PA-7500 Series, which is designed for large-scale data centers and service providers. Our firewalls come in a hardware form factor, a containerized form factor, called CN-Series, as well as a virtual form factor, called VM-Series, that is available for virtualization and cloud environments from companies such as Broadcom Inc., Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ), Amazon.com, Inc. ( Amazon ), and Alphabet Inc. ( Alphabet ), and in Kernel-based Virtual Machine /OpenStack environments. We also offer Cloud NGFW, a managed next-generation firewall ( NGFW ) offering, to secure customers applications on Amazon Web Services ( AWS ) and Microsoft Azure ( Azure ). SD-WAN. Our SD-WAN is integrated with PAN-OS so that our end-customers can get the security features of our PAN-OS ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewall together with SD-WAN functionality. The SD-WAN overlay supports dynamic, intelligent path selection based on the applications, services, and conditions of the links that each application or service is allowed to use, allowing applications to be prioritized based on criteria such as whether the application is mission-critical, latency-sensitive, or meets certain health criteria. Panorama. Panorama is our centralized security management solution for global control of our network security platform. Panorama can be deployed as a virtual appliance or a physical appliance. Panorama is used for centralized policy management, device management, software licensing and updates, centralized logging and reporting, and log storage. Many of our existing deployments continue using Panorama as the security management solution, while new deployments benefit from using Strata Cloud Manager instead for managing network security estate including our Next-Generation Firewalls and SASE with a cloud-based, unified management interface. SUBSCRIPTIONS We offer a number of subscriptions as part of our network security platform. Of these subscription offerings, cloud-delivered security services, such as Advanced Threat Prevention, Advanced WildFire, Advanced URL Filtering, Advanced DNS Security, IoT/OT Security, SaaS Security Inline, GlobalProtect, Enterprise DLP, AIOps, and AI Runtime Security are sold as options to our hardware and software firewalls, whereas SaaS Security API, AI Access Security, Prisma Access, Prisma SD-WAN, Strata Cloud Manager, Prisma Cloud, Cortex XSIAM, Cortex XDR, Cortex XSOAR, and Cortex Xpanse are sold on a per-user, per-endpoint, or capacity-based basis and they can be activated by customers with or without our firewalls. Our subscription offerings include: Cloud-delivered security services: Advanced Threat Prevention. This cloud-delivered security service provides intrusion detection and prevention capabilities and blocks vulnerability exploits, viruses, spyware, buffer overflows, denial-of-service attacks, and port scans from compromising and damaging enterprise information resources. It includes mechanisms such as protocol decoder-based analysis, protocol anomaly-based protection, stateful pattern matching, statistical anomaly detection, heuristic-based analysis, custom vulnerability and spyware phone home signatures, and workflows to manage popular open-source signature formats to extend our coverage. In addition, it offers inline deep learning to deliver real-time detection and prevention of unknown, evasive, and targeted command-and-control ( C2 ) communications over HTTP, unknown-TCP, unknown-UDP, and encrypted over SSL. Advanced Threat Prevention is the first offering to protect the enterprise from unknown command and control in real-time. Advanced WildFire. This cloud-delivered security service provides protection against targeted malware and advanced persistent threats and provides a near real-time analysis engine for detecting previously unseen malware while resisting attacker evasion techniques. Advanced WildFire combines dynamic and static analysis, recursive analysis, and a custom-built analysis environment with network traffic profiling and fileless attack detection to discover even the most sophisticated and evasive threats. In addition, Advanced WildFire defeats highly evasive modern malware at scale with a new infrastructure and patented analysis techniques, including intelligent runtime memory analysis, dependency emulation, malware family fingerprinting, and more. Once identified, whether in the cloud or inline, preventive measures are automatically generated and delivered in seconds or less to our network security platform. - 5 - Table of Contents Advanced URL Filtering. This cloud-delivered security service offers the industry s first Inline Deep Learning powered web protection engine. It delivers real-time detection and prevention of unknown, evasive, and targeted web-based threats, such as phishing, malware, and C2. While many vendors use machine learning to categorize web content or prevent malware downloads, Advanced URL Filtering is the industry s first inline web protection engine capable of detecting never-before-seen web-based threats and preventing them in real-time. In addition, it includes a cloud-based URL filtering database which consists of millions of URLs across many categories and is designed to analyze web traffic and prevent web-based threats, such as phishing, malware, and C2. Advanced DNS Security. This cloud-delivered security service uses machine learning to proactively block malicious domains and stop attacks in progress. Unlike other solutions, it does not require endpoint routing configurations to be maintained and therefore cannot be bypassed. It allows our network security platform access to Domain Name System ( DNS ) signatures that are generated using advanced predictive analysis, machine learning, and malicious domain data from a growing threat intelligence sharing community of which we are a part. Expanded categorization of DNS traffic and comprehensive analytics allow deep insights into threats, empowering security personnel with the context to optimize their security posture. It offers comprehensive DNS attack coverage and includes industry-first protections against multiple emerging DNS-based network attacks, including real-time analysis of DNS response to prevent DNS hijacking. IoT/OT Security. This cloud-delivered security service uses machine learning to accurately identify and classify various IoT and operational technology ( OT ) devices, including never-been-seen-before devices, mission-critical OT devices, and unmanaged legacy systems. It uses machine learning to baseline normal behavior, identify anomalous activity, assess risk, and provide policy recommendations to allow trusted behavior with a new Device-ID policy construct on our network security platform. Other subscriptions have also been enhanced with IoT context to prevent threats on various devices, including IoT and OT devices. SaaS Security API. SaaS Security API (formerly Prisma SaaS) is a multi-mode, cloud access security broker ( CASB ) that helps govern sanctioned SaaS application usage across all users and helps prevent breaches and non-compliance. Specifically, the service enables the discovery and classification of data stored in supported SaaS applications, protects sensitive data from accidental exposure, identifies and protects against known and unknown malware, and performs user activity monitoring to identify potential misuse or data exfiltration. It delivers complete visibility and granular enforcement across all user, folder, and file activity within sanctioned SaaS applications, and can be combined with SaaS Security Inline for a complete integrated CASB. SaaS Security Inline. SaaS Security Inline adds an inline service to automatically gain visibility and control over thousands of known and new sanctioned, unsanctioned and tolerated SaaS applications in use within organizations today. It provides enterprise data protection and compliance across all SaaS applications and prevents cloud threats in real time with best-in-class security. The solution is easy to deploy being natively integrated on network security platform, eliminating the architectural complexity of traditional CASB products, while offering low total cost of ownership. It can be combined with SaaS Security API as a complete integrated CASB. GlobalProtect. This subscription provides protection for users of both traditional laptop and mobile devices. It expands the boundaries of the end-users physical network, effectively establishing a logical perimeter that encompasses remote laptop and mobile device users irrespective of their location. When a remote user logs into the device, GlobalProtect automatically determines the closest gateway available to the roaming device and establishes a secure connection. Regardless of the operating systems, laptops, tablets, and phones will stay connected to the corporate network when they are on a network of any kind and, as a result, are protected as if they never left the corporate campus. GlobalProtect ensures that the same secure application enablement policies that protect users at the corporate site are enforced for all users, independent of their location. Enterprise DLP. This cloud-delivered security service provides consistent, reliable protection of sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information and intellectual property, for all traffic types, applications, and users. Native integration with our products makes it simple to deploy, and advanced machine learning minimizes management complexity. Enterprise DLP allows organizations to consistently discover, classify, monitor, and protect sensitive data, wherever it may reside. It helps minimize the risk of a data breach both on-premises and in the cloud such as in Office/Microsoft 365 , Salesforce , and Box and assists in meeting stringent data privacy and compliance regulations, including the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard , HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) requirements, and others. AI Access Security. GenAI applications can inadvertently expose sensitive company data, such as intellectual property, trade secrets, source code, financial records and customer information, leading to significant business and compliance risks. In addition, public GenAI tools can be exploited to spread malware and compromise cybersecurity defenses. AI Access Security classifies and prioritizes GenAI applications to assess risk, detect anomalies and visualize insights across multiple GenAI-specific attributes. It prevents sensitive data loss and defends against malicious responses, ensuring safe and effective AI adoption. - 6 - Table of Contents AIOps: AIOps is available in both free and licensed premium versions. AIOps redefines network operational experience by empowering security teams to proactively strengthen security posture and resolve network disruptions. AIOps provides continuous best practice recommendations powered by machine learning based on industry standards, security policy context, and advanced telemetry data collected from our network security customers to improve security posture. It also intelligently predicts health, performance, and capacity problems up to seven days in advance and provides actionable insights to resolve the predicted disruptions. Secure Access Service Edge: Prisma Access. Prisma Access is a cloud-delivered security offering that helps organizations deliver consistent security to remote networks and mobile users. Located in more than 100 locations around the world, Prisma Access consistently inspects all traffic across all ports and provides bidirectional networking to enable branch-to-branch and branch-to-headquarter traffic. Prisma Access consolidates point-products into a single converged cloud-delivered offering, transforming network security and allowing organizations to enable secure hybrid workforces. Prisma Access protects all application traffic with complete, best-in-class security while ensuring an exceptional user experience with industry-leading service-level agreements ( SLA s). With native SASE integration, Prisma Access Browser extends Zero Trust to any device managed or unmanaged in minutes. Prisma Access delivers exceptional user experience with a combination of application acceleration up to 5x faster than direct-to-internet and Autonomous Digital Experience Management. With these capabilities, Prisma Access delivers an optimized digital experience and application performance to end users. Prisma SD-WAN. Our Prisma SD-WAN solution is a next-generation SD-WAN solution that makes the secure cloud-delivered branch possible. Prisma SD-WAN enables organizations to replace traditional Multiprotocol Label Switching based WAN architectures with affordable broadband and internet transport types that promote improved bandwidth availability, redundancy and performance at a reduced cost. Prisma SD-WAN leverages real-time application performance SLAs and visibility to control and intelligently steer application traffic to deliver an exceptional user experience. Prisma SD-WAN also provides the flexibility of deploying with an on-premises controller to help businesses meet their industry-specific security compliance requirements and manage deployments with application-defined policies. Our Prisma SD-WAN simplifies network and security operations using machine learning and automation. AI Runtime Security: AI applications and large language model ( LLM ) models challenge traditional security. Increasingly sophisticated attacks on AI ecosystems require protection from AI applications, models and datasets. AI Runtime Security continuously monitors AI applications, models and datasets for potential threats and anomalies. It quickly adjusts to evolving attack techniques and detects suspicious activities in real time. It shields customers AI application ecosystem from AI-specific and conventional network attacks by leveraging real-time, AI-powered security. Strata Cloud Manager: Strata Cloud Manager enables our customers to easily manage their Palo Alto Networks Network Security infrastructure including NGFWs and SASE environment from the cloud, via one unified management interface. In addition to getting complete visibility, with Strata Cloud Manager, customers can predict and prevent network health issues, strengthen security, and configure and manage their entire network security estate. Strata Copilot, a part of Strata Cloud Manager, helps security teams quickly and easily find, understand and address threats leveraging the power and simplicity of natural language. Cloud Security: Prisma Cloud. Prisma Cloud is a comprehensive CNAPP, securing both cloud-native and lift-and-shift applications across multi- and hybrid-cloud environments. With broad security and compliance coverage and a flexible agentless, as well as agent-based, architecture, Prisma Cloud protects cloud-native applications across their lifecycle from code to cloud. The platform helps developers prevent risks as they code and build the application, secures the software supply chain and the continuous integration and continuous development ( CI/CD ) pipeline, and provides complete visibility and real-time protection for applications running in the cloud. With its code-to-cloud security capabilities, Prisma Cloud creates a complete security picture by tracing back thousands of cloud risks and vulnerabilities that occur in the application runtime to their origin in the code-and-build phase of the application. Prisma Cloud does this by consolidating multiple code and cloud security technologies such as Software Composition Analysis, Infrastructure as Code security, CI/CD security, secrets scanning, Cloud Security Posture Management, Cloud Identity and Entitlements Management, API security, Vulnerability Management, Cloud Workload Protection, Web Application and API Security, Cloud Network Security, and Cloud Discovery and Exposure Management into a single unified platform. The platform enables organizations to shift security left and fix issues at the source (in code) before they proliferate as a large number of risks in the cloud. The contextualized visibility to alerts, attack paths, and vulnerabilities delivered by Prisma Cloud facilitates collaboration between security and development teams to drive down risks and deliver better security outcomes. The context helps security teams block attacks in the cloud runtime and developers fix risks in source code. A comprehensive library of compliance frameworks included in Prisma Cloud vastly simplifies the task of maintaining compliance. Seamless integration with security orchestration tools ensures rapid remediation of vulnerabilities and security issues. - 7 - Table of Contents Further, the Code to Cloud Platform is positioned to secure AI-powered applications for enterprises. In March 2024, we announced limited general availability of data security posture management ( DSPM ) capabilities and in May 2024, we released the early preview of AI security posture management ( AI-SPM ) capabilities to our customers. These features were made available to all customers in our August 2024 software release. Prisma Cloud customers can activate them within the platform to discover, classify, protect, and govern AI-powered applications. DSPM and AI-SPM together provide visibility into the entire GenAI ecosystem, identify LLM vulnerabilities, prioritize misconfiguration risks, reduce the risk of data exposure, and surface compliance violations. The native integration of Prisma Cloud with Cortex XSIAM is further expanded with the recent addition of cloud detection and response ( CDR ) capabilities, providing a broader context to protect, detect, and respond to advanced cloud threats. It also brings together cloud security and security operations teams, fostering strong collaboration. With a flexible, integrated platform that enables customers to license and activate cloud security capabilities that match their need, Prisma Cloud helps secure organizations at every stage in their cloud adoption journey. The platform enables security teams to consolidate multiple products that address individual risks with an integrated solution that also delivers best-in-class capabilities. Prisma Cloud s code-to-cloud CNAPP delivers comprehensive protection for applications and their code, infrastructure (workloads, network, and storage), data, APIs, and associated identities. Security Operations: Cortex XSIAM. This cloud-based AI-driven security operations platform for the modern SOC harnesses the power of AI to radically improve security outcomes and transform secur