Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 40 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 40 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 Item 6. [Reserved] 42 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 98 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 98 Item 9B. Other Information 98 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 98 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 99 Item 11. Executive Compensation 99 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 99 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 99 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 99 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 100 Signatures 105 - 2 - Table of Contents PART I SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: the effects of supply chain challenges and the global chip and component shortages and other factors affecting the manufacture, delivery and cost of certain of our products; expectations regarding drivers of and factors affecting growth in our business; the performance advantages of our products and subscription and support offerings and the potential benefits to our customers; statements regarding trends in billings, our mix of product and subscription and support revenue, cost of revenue, gross margin, cash flows, operating expenses, including future share-based compensation expense, income taxes, investment plans and liquidity; our ability to and expectation that we will continue to grow our installed end-customer base; expected recurring revenues resulting from expected growth in our installed base and increased adoption of our products and cloud-based subscription services; our expectations regarding future investments in research and development, customer support, in our employees and in our sales force, including expectations regarding growth in our sales headcount; our ability to develop or acquire new product, subscription, and support offerings, improve our existing product, subscription, and support offerings, and increase the value of our product, subscription, and support offerings, including through deployment of new capabilities via security applications developed by third parties; our expectation that we will continue to expand internationally; our expectation that we will continue to renew existing contracts and increase sales to our existing customer base; expectations regarding our revenues, including the seasonality and cyclicality from quarter to quarter; expected impact of the adoption of certain recent accounting pronouncements and the anticipated timing of adopting such standards; our expectation that we will expand our facilities or add new facilities as we add employees and enter new geographic markets and expectations related to charges incurred in connection with exiting our former headquarter facilities; our expectations regarding the future results of our People Strategy; our expectation that we will increase our customer financing activities; the sufficiency of our cash flow from operations with existing cash, cash equivalents and investments to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future; our expectations regarding the impact of the discontinuance of the LIBO Rate upon our liquidity or financial position; future investments in product development, subscriptions, or technologies, and any related delays in the development or release of new product and subscription offerings; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate companies and assets; expectations and intentions with respect to the products and technologies that we acquire and introduce; the timing and amount of capital expenditures and share repurchases; our expectations regarding the impacts on our business, the business of our customers, suppliers and partners, and the economy as a result of the global COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures; and other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. - 3 - Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Palo Alto Networks, Inc. is a global cybersecurity provider with a vision of a world where each day is safer and more secure than the one before. We were incorporated in 2005 and are headquartered in Santa Clara, California. We empower enterprises, organizations, service providers, and government entities to protect themselves against today s most sophisticated cyber threats. Our cybersecurity platforms and services help secure enterprise users, networks, clouds, and endpoints by delivering comprehensive cybersecurity backed by industry leading artificial intelligence and automation. We are a leading provider of zero trust solutions, starting with next-generation zero trust network access to secure today s remote hybrid workforces and extending to securing all users, applications and infrastructure with zero trust principles. Our security solutions are designed to reduce customers total cost of ownership by improving operational efficiency and eliminating the need for siloed point products. Our company focuses on delivering value in five fundamental areas: Network Security: Our network security platform, which includes our ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls, available in a number of form factors, including physical, virtual, and containerized appliances, as well as a cloud-delivered service, has been recognized as a leader in the industry. Our network security platform also includes our Cloud-Delivered Security Services, such as Threat Prevention, Advanced Threat Prevention, WildFire , Advanced URL Filtering, DNS Security, IoT Security, GlobalProtect , SD-WAN, Enterprise Data Loss Prevention ( Enterprise DLP ), AIOps, SaaS Security API, and SaaS Security Inline. Through these add-on security services, our customers are able to secure their content, applications, users, and devices across our network security platform as well as the Prisma and Cortex product lines. Panorama , our network security management solution, available as hardware or virtual machine, can centrally manage our network security platform irrespective of form factor, location, or scale. Secure Access Service Edge: Prisma Access is our next-generation Zero Trust Network Access ( ZTNA ) platform that provides secure network access for all employees with unified policy management and continuous threat inspection. We have recently introduced ZTNA 2.0, which addresses major shortcomings in the first-generation ZTNA products in the industry (which we refer to as ZTNA 1.0). Prisma Access delivers granular least-privileged access along with continuous trust verification and security inspection, and protects security for all applications and data across the enterprise infrastructure. Prisma Access, when combined with Prisma SD-WAN, provides a comprehensive single-vendor Secure Access Service Edge ( SASE ) offering that is used to secure remote workforces and enable the cloud-delivered branch. Cloud Security: We enable cloud native security through our Prisma Cloud platform. As a comprehensive Cloud Native Application Protection Platform ( CNAPP ), Prisma Cloud secures hybrid and multi-cloud environments for applications, data, and the entire cloud native technology stack across the full development lifecycle; from code to runtime. For inline network security on multi and hybrid-cloud environments, we also offer our VM-Series and CN-Series Firewall offerings. Security Operations: We deliver the next generation of endpoint security, security analytics and security automation solutions through our Cortex portfolio. These include our industry-leading extended detection and response platform Cortex XDR to prevent, detect, and respond to complex cybersecurity attacks, Cortex XSOAR for security orchestration, automation, and response ( SOAR ), Cortex Xpanse for attack surface management ( ASM ), and Cortex Data Lake allowing our customers to collect and analyze large amounts of context-rich data across endpoints, networks, and clouds. These products are delivered as software subscriptions or SaaS subscriptions. Threat Intelligence and Security Consulting (Unit 42): We enable security teams with up-to-date threat intelligence and deep cybersecurity expertise before, during and after attacks through our Unit 42 threat research and security consulting team. Unit 42 offers incident response, risk management, board advisory, and proactive cybersecurity assessment services. - 4 - Table of Contents Product, Subscription, and Support Our products are available in the form of the product, subscription, and support offerings described below. Products Firewall Appliances and Software . Our ML-Powered Next Generation Firewalls embed machine learning in the core of the firewall and employ inline deep learning in the cloud, empowering our customers to stop zero-day threats in real time, see and secure their entire enterprise including IoT, and reduce errors with automatic policy recommendations. All of our firewall appliances and software incorporate our PAN-OS operating system and come with the same rich set of features ensuring consistent operation across our entire product line. The content, applications, users, and devices the elements that run a business become integral components of an enterprise s security policy via our Content-ID , App-ID , User-ID , and Device-ID technology. In addition to these components, key features include site-to-site virtual private network ( VPN ), remote access Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) VPN, and Quality-of-Service ( QoS ). Our appliances and software are designed for different performance requirements throughout an organization and are classified based on throughput, ranging from our PA-410, which is designed for small organizations and branch offices, to our top-of-the-line PA-7080, which is designed for large-scale data centers and service provider use. Our firewall appliances come in a physical form factor, a containerized form factor, called CN-Series, as well as a virtual form factor, called VM-Series, that is available for virtualization and cloud environments from companies such as VMware, Inc. ( VMware ), Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ), Amazon.com, Inc. ( Amazon ), and Google, Inc. ( Google ), and in Kernel-based Virtual Machine ( KVM )/OpenStack environments. We also offer Cloud NGFW, a managed next-generation firewall ( NGFW ) offering, to secure customers applications on Amazon Web Services ( AWS ). Panorama. Panorama is our centralized security management solution for global control of all of our firewall appliances and software deployed on a customer s network, as well as in their instances in public or private cloud environments. Panorama can be deployed as a virtual appliance or a physical appliance. Panorama is used for centralized policy management, device management, software licensing and updates, centralized logging and reporting, and log storage. Panorama controls the security, network address translation ( NAT ), QoS, policy-based forwarding, decryption, application override, captive portal, and distributed denial of service/denial of service ( DDoS/DoS ) protection aspects of the appliances, software, virtual and containerized systems under management. Panorama centrally manages device software and associated updates, including SSL-VPN clients, SD-WAN, dynamic content updates, and software licenses. Panorama offers network security monitoring through the ability to view logs and run reports from all managed appliances and software in one location without the need to forward the logs and reliably expands log storage for long-term event investigation and analysis. Virtual System Upgrades . Virtual System Upgrades are available as extensions to the Virtual System capacity that ships with our physical appliances. Virtual Systems provide a mechanism to support multiple distinct security policies and administrative access for tenants on the same hardware device, which is applicable to our large enterprise and service provider customers. Subscriptions We offer a number of subscriptions as part of our portfolio. Of these subscription offerings, cloud-delivered security services like Threat Prevention, Advanced Threat Prevention, WildFire, Advanced URL Filtering, DNS Security, IoT Security, SaaS Security Inline, GlobalProtect, SD-WAN, Enterprise DLP and AIOps are sold as options to our firewall appliances and software, whereas Prisma Cloud, Prisma Access, Prisma SD-WAN, SaaS Security API, Cortex XDR, Cortex XSOAR, Cortex Xpanse and Cortex Data Lake are sold on a per-user, per-endpoint, or capacity-based basis. Our subscription offerings include: Cloud-delivered Security Services: Threat Prevention. This cloud-delivered security service provides intrusion detection and prevention capabilities and blocks vulnerability exploits, viruses, spyware, buffer overflows, denial-of-service attacks, and port scans from compromising and damaging enterprise information resources. It includes mechanisms such as protocol decoder-based analysis, protocol anomaly-based protection, stateful pattern matching, statistical anomaly detection, heuristic-based analysis, custom vulnerability and spyware phone home signatures, and workflows to manage popular open-source signature formats to extend our leading coverage. Advanced Threat Prevention . This cloud-delivered security service builds on all of the capabilities of Threat Prevention, adding the industry s first Inline Deep Learning protection engine for Command-and-Control ( C2 ). It delivers real-time detection and prevention of unknown, evasive, and targeted C2 communications over HTTP, unknown-TCP, unknown-UDP and encrypted over SSL. Advanced Threat Prevention is the first offering to protect patient zero from unknown command and control in real-time. - 5 - Table of Contents WildFire. This cloud-delivered security service (which can also be delivered as an appliance) provides protection against targeted malware and advanced persistent threats and provides a near real-time analysis engine for detecting previously unseen malware while resisting attacker evasion techniques. The core component of this subscription goes beyond traditional sandbox environments and can operate on an end-customers local environment, private cloud or our public cloud. WildFire combines dynamic and static analysis, recursive analysis, and a custom-built analysis environment with network traffic profiling and fileless attack detection to discover even the most sophisticated and evasive threats. A machine learning module derived from the cloud sandbox environment is now delivered inline on the ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls to identify the majority of unknown threats without cloud connectivity. Once identified, whether in the cloud or inline, preventive measures are automatically generated and delivered in seconds or less across networks, clouds, endpoints, or wherever WildFire-enabled sensors are deployed. By providing this as a cloud-based subscription, all of our end-customers benefit from malware found on any of our end-customers networks. Advanced URL Filtering . This cloud-delivered security service offers the industry s first Inline Deep Learning powered web protection engine. It delivers real-time detection and prevention of unknown, evasive, and targeted web-based threats such as phishing, malware, and command-and-control. While many vendors use machine learning to categorize web content or prevent malware downloads, Advanced URL Filtering is the industry s first inline web protection engine capable of detecting never-before-seen web-based threats and preventing them in real-time. In addition, it includes a cloud-based URL filtering database which consists of millions of URLs across many categories and is designed to analyze web traffic and prevent web-based threats such as phishing, malware, and command-and-control. DNS Security. This cloud-delivered security service uses machine learning to proactively block malicious domains and stops attacks in progress. Unlike other solutions, it does not require endpoint routing configurations to be maintained and therefore cannot be bypassed. It allows firewalls access to DNS signatures that are generated using advanced predictive analysis, machine learning, and malicious domain data from a growing threat intelligence sharing community of which we are a part. Expanded categorization of DNS traffic and comprehensive analytics allow deep insights into threats, empowering security personnel with the context to optimize their security posture. It offers comprehensive DNS attack coverage and includes industry-first protections against multiple emerging DNS-based network attacks. IoT Security. IoT Security is a cloud-delivered security service on our ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls with backward compatibility to older versions of PAN-OS. Using machine learning and our App-ID technology, it can accurately identify and classify various IoT and operational technology ( OT ) devices, including never-been-seen-before devices, mission critical OT devices and unmanaged legacy systems. It uses machine learning to baseline normal behavior, identify anomalous activity, assess risk, and provide policy recommendations to allow trusted behavior with a new Device-ID policy construct on our ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls. Our existing subscription-based security services have also been enhanced with IoT context to prevent threats on various devices, including IoT and OT devices. SaaS Security API. SaaS Security API (formerly Prisma SaaS) is a multi-mode, cloud access security broker service that helps govern sanctioned SaaS application usage across all users and helps prevent breaches and non-compliance. Specifically, the service enables the discovery and classification of data stored across the supported SaaS applications, protects sensitive data from accidental exposure, identifies and protects against known and unknown malware, and performs user activity monitoring to identify potential misuse or data exfiltration. It delivers complete visibility and granular enforcement across all user, folder, and file activity within sanctioned SaaS applications, and can be combined with SaaS Security Inline for a complete integrated cloud access security broker ( CASB ). SaaS Security Inline. SaaS Security Inline is a recent cloud-delivered security service on our ML-Powered Next Generation Firewalls that adds an inline service to automatically gain visibility and control over the tens of thousands of known and new sanctioned, unsanctioned and tolerated SaaS applications in use within organizations today. It provides enterprise data protection and compliance across all SaaS applications and prevents cloud threats in real time with best-in-class security. The solution is easy to deploy being natively integrated on our range of ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls, eliminating the architectural complexity of traditional CASB products, while offering low total cost of ownership. It can be combined with SaaS Security API as a complete integrated CASB. GlobalProtect . This appliance-based subscription provides protection for users of both traditional laptop and mobile devices. It expands the boundaries of the end-users physical network, effectively establishing a logical perimeter that encompasses remote laptop and mobile device users irrespective of their location. When a remote user logs into the device, GlobalProtect automatically determines the closest gateway available to the roaming device and establishes a secure connection. Regardless of the operating systems, laptops, tablets and phones will stay connected to the corporate network when they are on a network of any kind and, as a result, are protected as if they never left the corporate campus. GlobalProtect ensures that the same secure application enablement policies that protect users at the corporate site are enforced for all users, independent of their location. - 6 - Table of Contents SD-WAN. Our SD-WAN subscription is integrated with PAN-OS, so that our end-customers can get the security features of our PAN-OS ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewall together with SD-WAN functionality. The SD-WAN overlay supports dynamic, intelligent path selection based on the applications, services and conditions of the links that each application or service is allowed to use, allowing applications to be prioritized based on criteria such as whether the application is mission-critical, latency-sensitive, or meets certain health criteria. Enterprise DLP. This cloud-delivered security service provides consistent, reliable protection of sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information ( PII ) and intellectual property, for all traffic types, applications, and users. Native integration with our products makes it simple to deploy, and advanced machine learning minimizes management complexity. Enterprise DLP allows organizations to consistently discover, classify, monitor, and protect sensitive data, wherever it may reside. It helps minimize the risk of a data breach both on-premises and in the cloud such as in Office/Microsoft 365 , Salesforce , and Box and assists in meeting stringent data privacy and compliance regulations, including GDPR, CCPA, PCI DSS, HIPAA, and others. AIOps for NGFW: AIOps for NGFW is a new cloud-delivered security service available on ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewalls and Panorama that run on PAN OS 10.0 and above, and is available in both free and licensed premium versions. AIOps for NGFW redefines firewall operational experience by empowering security teams to proactively strengthen security posture and resolve firewall disruptions. AIOps for NGFW provides continuous best practice recommendations powered by machine learning ( ML ) based on industry standards, security policy context, and advanced telemetry data collected from all Palo Alto Networks firewalls to improve security posture. It also intelligently predicts firewall health, performance, and capacity problems up to seven days in advance and provides actionable insights to resolve the predicted disruptions. Cloud Security: Prisma Cloud. Prisma Cloud is a comprehensive CNAPP, securing both cloud native and lift-and-shift applications across hybrid- and multi-cloud environments. With broad security and compliance coverage and a flexible agentless, as well as agent-based, architecture, Prisma Cloud protects cloud-native applications spanning hosts, containers, serverless architectures and other platform as a service ( PaaS ) offerings across cloud platforms. It dynamically discovers public cloud resources as they are deployed and correlates cloud data services (resource configurations, flow logs, audit logs, host and container logs, etc.) to provide timely security and compliance insights for cloud applications. The platform uses machine learning to profile user, workload, and application behaviors to identify and prevent advanced threats. For security and development and operations teams, Prisma Cloud removes the impedance mismatch between security and cloud-driven agility by integrating with continuous integration and continuous development ( CI/CD ) tool chains to provide full lifecycle vulnerability management, compliance, infrastructure-as-code scanning, and runtime defense. With a comprehensive library of compliance frameworks, it vastly simplifies the task of maintaining compliance. Prisma Cloud accomplishes this through deep context-sharing that spans infrastructure, PaaS, users, development platforms, data, and application workloads. Seamless integration with security orchestration tools ensures rapid remediation of vulnerabilities and security issues. Prisma Cloud delivers cloud security posture management, cloud workload protection platform, cloud network security, cloud code security, and cloud identity security capabilities that provide continuous visibility and protection across an organization s hybrid, and multi-cloud infrastructure. Secure Access Service Edge: Prisma Access . Prisma Access is a cloud-delivered security offering that helps organizations deliver consistent security to remote networks and mobile users. Located in more than 100 locations around the world, Prisma Access consistently inspects all traffic across all ports and provides bidirectional networking to enable branch-to-branch and branch-to-headquarter traffic. Prisma Access consolidates more point-products into a single converged cloud-delivered offering than any competing solution, transforming network security and allowing organizations to enable secure hybrid workforces. Unlike competing solutions, only Prisma Access protects all application traffic with complete, best-in-class security while ensuring an exceptional user experience with industry-leading service-level agreements ( SLA s). Prisma SD-WAN . Our Prisma SD-WAN solution is a next-generation SD-WAN solution that makes the secure cloud-delivered branch possible. Prisma SD-WAN enables organizations to replace traditional Multiprotocol Label Switching ( MPLS ) based WAN architectures with affordable broadband and internet transport types that promote improved bandwidth availability, redundancy and performance at a reduced cost. Prisma SD-WAN leverages real-time application performance SLAs and visibility to control and intelligently steer application traffic to deliver an exceptional user experience. Unlike legacy SD-WAN solutions that introduce cost and complexity, our Prisma SD-WAN ensures an excellent user experience with application-defined policies and simplifies network and security operations using machine learning and automation. - 7 - Table of Contents Security Operations: Cortex XDR. This cloud-based subscription enables organizations to collect telemetry from endpoint, network, identity and cloud data sources and apply advanced analytics and machine learning across all data, to quickly find and stop targeted attacks, insider abuse, and compromised endpoints. Cortex XDR has two product tiers: XDR Prevent and XDR Pro. XDR Prevent delivers enterprise-class endpoint security focused on preventing attacks. XDR Pro extends endpoint detection and response ( EDR ) to include cross-data analytics, including network, cloud and identity data. These capabilities build on each other such that a customer can start with XDR Prevent, then upgrade to XDR Pro for endpoints or XDR Pro for cross-data analytics. Going beyond EDR, Cortex XDR detects the most complex threats using analytics across key data sources and reveals the root cause, which can significantly reduce investigation time as compared to siloed tools and manual processes. Cortex XSOAR. Available as a cloud-based subscription or an on-premises appliance, Cortex XSOAR is a comprehensive SOAR offering that unifies playbook automation, case management, real-time collaboration, and threat intelligence management to serve security teams across the incident lifecycle. With Cortex XSOAR, security teams can standardize processes, automate repeatable tasks and manage incidents across their security product stack to improve response time and analyst productivity. It learns from the real-life analyst interactions and past investigations to help SOC teams with analyst assignment suggestions, playbook enhancements, and best next steps for investigations. Many of our customers see significantly faster SOC response times and a significant reduction in SOC alerts which require human intervention. Cortex Xpanse. This cloud-based subscription 