Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 1C Cybersecurity 17 Item 2 Properties 18 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6 [Reserved] 21 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 37 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 72 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 72 Item 9B Other Information 72 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 72 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 73 Item 11 Executive Compensation 74 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 75 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 75 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 75 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 76 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 78 Signatures 79 i Table of Contents PA RT I CAU TIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain written and oral statements made by management of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries ( Paychex, the Company, we, our, or us ) may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States ( U.S. ) Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words and phrases as expect, estimate, intend, intent, outlook, will, would, projections, strategy, mission, anticipate, believe, could, may, target, potential, purpose, design, might, and other similar words or phrases. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding operating performance, events, or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, including statements relating to our outlook, revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations, and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy, and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict, many of which are outside our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance upon any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our ability to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our solutions and support; software defects, undetected errors, and development delays for our solutions; the possibility of cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities or Internet disruptions, including data security and privacy leaks and data loss and business interruptions; the possibility of failure of our business continuity plan during a catastrophic event; the failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions; the possibility that we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship with our professional employer organization ( PEO ) business; changes in health insurance and workers compensation insurance rates and underlying claim trends; risks related to acquisitions and the integration of the businesses we acquire; our clients failure to reimburse us for payments made by us on their behalf; the effect of changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or the timing of remittances; our failure to comply with covenants in our debt agreements; changes in governmental regulations, laws, and policies; our ability to comply with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations; our compliance with data privacy and artificial intelligence laws and regulations; our failure to protect our intellectual property rights; potential outcomes related to pending or future litigation matters; the impact of macroeconomic factors on the U.S. and global economy, and in particular on our small- and medium-sized business clients; volatility in the political and economic environment, including inflation and interest rate changes; changes in the availability and retention of qualified people; and the possible effects of negative publicity on our reputation and the value of our brand. Any of these factors, as well as such other factors as discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and throughout Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10 K ( Form 10-K ), and in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. The information provided in this Form 10 K is based upon the facts and circumstances known as of the date of this report, and any forward-looking statements made by us in this Form 10 K speak only as of the date on which they are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of filing this Form 10-K with the SEC to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 1 Table of Contents Our investor presentation regarding the financial results for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2024 is available and accessible on our Paychex Investor Relations portal at https://investor.paychex.com . Information available on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this Form 10-K. We intend to make future investor presentations available exclusively on our Paychex Investor Relations portal. 2 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms Paychex, we, us, our and the Company refer to Paychex, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are an industry-leading human capital management ( HCM ) company delivering a full suite of technology and advisory services in human resources ( HR ), employee benefit solutions, insurance, and payroll processing. As of May 31, 2024, we served greater than 745,000 small- to medium-sized businesses and their employees across the U.S. and parts of Europe. Paychex was incorporated in Delaware in 1979, maintains a corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and has a fiscal year that ends on May 31st. For any organization, a key function is effective HCM, which requires both resources and expertise. Organizations are faced with continuous evolution in employer-employee relations including: an increasing number and complexity of federal, state, and local regulations; changing workforce dynamics; and challenges attracting and retaining talent. The workplace is rapidly changing as employees increasingly become mobile, work remotely, and expect a user experience similar to consumer-oriented applications. We specialize in helping small- to medium-sized businesses who do not have the resources or expertise to adapt to the constantly evolving environment. Paychex offers a full range of integrated HCM solutions from hire to retire for businesses and their employees that allows us to customize our offering to the client's business, whether it is small or large, simple or complex. We believe that we have the breadth of solutions to cover the spectrum of the employee life cycle, but we also allow integrations with popular HR, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications. The key features of our solutions are: Comprehensive cloud-based platform optimized to meet the HR and payroll needs of small- and medium-sized organizations; Expertise in HR and payroll with our technology backed by approximately 250 compliance experts and over 650 HR business professionals; Streamlined workforce management that combines technology with flexible, tech-enabled support options; Modern, mobile, and intuitive user experience with self-service capabilities; Scalable and customizable platform that allows clients the ability to add services as they grow; Software as a service, or SaaS , delivery model that reduces total cost of ownership for our clients; and Advanced data analytics and artificial intelligence ( AI ) capabilities powered by large data sets. We market our solutions through a combination of direct and virtual sales forces and ecommerce solutions supported by various digital lead generation and multi-channel marketing initiatives. Over 50% of our revenues are from solutions other than payroll processing. Company Strategy Our strategy is to be the digitally driven HR leader, serving as an essential partner to small-to-medium sized businesses by providing them with the technology and advisory services they need for HR, payroll, benefits, and insurance. We believe that successfully executing this strategy will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. We intend to strengthen and extend our position as a leading provider through continued investments in both our innovative technology and HR advisory solutions. Key elements of our strategy include: Growing our client base and market share. We operate in a large and growing market, with significant potential to expand within our current target markets. We continually invest in new demand generation, sales tools, go-to-market strategies along with channel partnerships, eCommerce, and digital marketing. Expand our share of wallet. We offer a full-suite of integrated solutions incorporating a unique combination of industry-leading HR technology and HR advisory solutions that sets us apart in the industry. We intend to continue to increase penetration across our HCM software, HR outsourcing, retirement, insurance, and payments offerings. Leveraging technology innovations . We continue to invest significantly in our proprietary, award-winning Paychex Flex platform and mobility applications to maximize efficiency and functionality for our clients and their employees. We believe we are well positioned to capture the AI opportunity with large and growing data sets, 3 Table of Contents predictive analytics and AI models, and increased AI investments to improve efficiency, enhance the customer experience, and unlock new growth opportunities. Engaging in strategic acquisitions . We utilize acquisitions, when appropriate, as a means to expand our portfolio, enter new markets, or increase our scale. We will continue to evaluate and monitor potential acquisitions and target acquisitions that are aligned with our overall strategy. Our Solutions Our solutions bring together payroll and HCM software with HR and compliance expertise, along with flexible, personalized, and technology-enabled support capabilities. Clients have the option of doing payroll online using our SaaS technology, outsourcing to our payroll specialists, or using a combination of these methods. Payroll is integrated with HCM software modules for clients who have more complex HR needs. We also provide comprehensive HR outsourcing through our administrative services organization ( ASO ) and PEO solutions. The integration of leading-edge technology and flexible support options allows us to meet our clients needs how, when, and where they want. We closely monitor the evolving challenges and needs of small- and medium-sized businesses, and proactively aid our clients in navigating macroeconomic challenges, legislative changes, and other complexities they may face. In the fiscal year ended May 31, 2024 ( fiscal 2024 ), top challenges for employers were macroeconomic pressures including inflation and interest rates, maintaining sufficient staffing levels, providing appropriate employee development, keeping technology current, and ensuring legal and regulatory compliance. We provide a unique blend of innovative technology solutions, backed by our extensive compliance and HR expertise, that help customers more effectively hire, develop, and retain top talent in this challenging workforce environment. As businesses operate in a tight labor market, having an online portal for employee self-service that is intuitive and easy-to-use helps increase employee retention and efficiency for our customers. We continue to invest in our technology, enhancing our solutions to continuously improve the customer and employee experiences from hiring and onboarding through employee retention. HCM Technology: Paychex Flex is our proprietary HCM SaaS platform that provides seamless workforce management throughout the employee life cycle from recruiting and hiring to retirement through an integrated suite of solutions including recruiting, onboarding, HR, time and attendance and employee benefits. It utilizes a single cloud-based platform, with single client and employee records. Clients can select the modules they need and easily customize solutions as they grow. In addition, Paychex Flex presents function-focused analytics throughout the platform, providing HR leaders with data to make more informed business decisions. Paychex Flex uses a device-independent design throughout the HCM suite, which allows full functionality of all application components, regardless of device or screen size. We believe our Paychex mobile solutions add greater value and convenience for our clients and their employees by allowing them instant access on their mobile device, and usage of our mobile and self-service capabilities continue to grow. HR and Compliance Expertise: Paychex augments its HCM software solutions with 50+ years of experience. We have over 650 HR business professionals who are dedicated to our clients and have the experience and training to provide HR best practices and advice. Our HR business partners are available to provide our ASO and PEO clients with specific guidance on HR issues. In addition, we have approximately 250 compliance professionals who are in real-time contact with tax agencies and regulators to understand upcoming or newly enacted laws and regulations and advocate for our clients interests. The contributions of these compliance experts are intended to ensure that our HCM solutions are updated in a timely fashion to adhere to applicable regulations and to help our clients stay in compliance. Technology-Enabled Client Service: Paychex Flex also provides technology-enabled service with options that include self-service, a 24/7 dedicated service center, an individual payroll specialist, and integrated service via a multi-product service center. In addition, medium-sized clients can utilize a relationship manager for more personalized service. This flexible platform services our small- to medium-sized clients and a portion of our PEO business. Within Paychex Flex, we leverage embedded AI to assist our clients. Our Paychex Flex Intelligence Engine allows individual preference on learning style - via written how-to-documents, tutorial-style video vignettes, or guided interactive tours. The Paychex Flex Intelligence Engine also includes the Flex Assistant, a customer service chatbot that can answer questions across thousands of topics and provides access to over 1,200 instructional resources. At any time, a live Paychex agent is just a click away, with the entire chat conversation available in real-time to provide a more personalized service experience. The Flex Assistant consistently handles nearly two-thirds of questions that would otherwise reach a payroll/HR functionary or a customer service representative, with high satisfaction scores. 4 Table of Contents The platform embeds self-service capabilities that empower client employees to manage their HR and benefits information from any location, on any device. These self-service capabilities allow for greater access and convenience for client employees and greater productivity for clients. Our Clients Paychex has HR solutions to fit the needs of any small- to medium-sized business, from do-it-yourself payroll to comprehensive HR outsourcing. The target market for our integrated HCM solutions is small- to medium-sized businesses. Within this space, we serve a diverse client base operating in a broad range of industries throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. The flexibility and scalability of our solutions allow our clients to select the best solution that meets their needs. We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that generally do not contain specified contract periods and may be terminated by either party with 30-days notice of termination. We believe client retention is a useful indicator of client satisfaction with our solutions and support. For fiscal 2024, client retention was in the range of 82% to 83% of our beginning client base. We support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. We simplify their payroll with a combination of our solutions and customer support options for a quick and easy payday. Clients may choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or process payroll themselves utilizing our proprietary, robust SaaS Paychex Flex platform and our SurePayroll SaaS-based solutions. Both solutions allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone). While Paychex Flex is our primary SaaS-based platform utilized by the majority of our clients for their HCM needs, there are some clients that use other platforms, including SurePayroll clients, and certain PEO clients. Both our small- and medium-sized clients can choose one of our comprehensive HR outsourcing services, which include ASO and PEO solutions, and participate in our benefits offerings, which include our insurance and retirement services. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client s needs. Our retirement services solutions offer many plan design options to meet the client s requirements, as well as various investment options. Description of Solutions Within our HCM solutions, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of HCM technology and HR advisory solutions that allow our clients to meet their diverse HR and payroll needs. Clients can select solutions on an la carte basis or as part of various solution bundles. Our offerings often leverage the information gathered in our base payroll processing service, allowing us to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum. Our portfolio of solutions is comprised of the following: Management Solutions: Payroll processing solutions: Our payroll processing solutions include the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal accounting records and management reports; preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection and remittance of clients payroll obligations. Payroll tax administration solutions: Payroll tax administration solutions provide for accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the applicable federal, state, and local tax or regulatory agencies. In connection with these services, we electronically collect payroll taxes from clients bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are typically paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with some items extending up to 90 days. We handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes. Employee payment solutions: Our employee payment solutions provide an employer the option of paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a check drawn on a Paychex account (Readychex ), or a check drawn on the employer s account and electronically signed by us. For each of the first three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the clients bank accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide payment to the employees on payday. Our 5 Table of Contents Readychex solution provides a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation for employers. We also allow employers to opt for more flexible pay options. Same day ACH functionality is also available for clients using direct deposit, allowing employers the flexibility to pay employees via direct deposit on the same day they initiate payroll. In addition, we are giving business owners the ability to leverage real-time payments to process payroll and deliver net pay to their employees immediately for time worked. Pay-on-demand functionality enables an employee to request access to a portion of earned pay before the scheduled pay date, which is deposited into a traditional bank account or a third-party account. HR solutions: Our HR solutions allow businesses to outsource and simplify their HR administration and compliance support. These bundled services incorporate integrated HCM technology solutions and HR advisory services through both virtual and on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative. Clients can opt for different levels of HR outsourcing from our low-touch HR solutions to our full-service HR Pro package. We also offer HR support to non-payroll clients through our HR Partner Plus solution. Retirement solutions administration: Our retirement solutions line offers a variety of options to employers, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE plans, SIMPLE IRAs, 401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, owner-only 401(k) plans, Pooled Employer Plans, profit sharing plans, and money purchase plans. These solutions provide plan implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative services. Auto enrollment is an optional plan feature that allows employers to automatically enroll employees in their company s 401(k) plan and increase overall plan participation. Clients may choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or customize their investment options within their plan. We are the largest 401(k) recordkeeper for small businesses in the U.S. Our large-market retirement services include relationships with financial advisors. HR administration solutions: We offer cloud-based HR administration software solutions for employee benefits management and administration, time and attendance reporting, recruiting, and onboarding. These services include: Paychex HR Online offers powerful tools for managing employee personnel information, performance management, HR compliance, and reporting. Our Learning Management solution complements our performance management tool. When combined with our workflow and approval engine, we offer businesses the flexibility to capture ongoing performance feedback, recommend and enroll employees in specific training courses, and leverage automated workflows to track progress and approve compensation changes tied to performance. Digital communication solutions, including Paychex Flex HR Connect and HR Conversations, which helps strengthen connections and keep workers engaged no matter their work location. Paychex Flex HR Connect provides the ability to digitally submit questions, requests, and incident reports directly to HR through an easy-to-use workflow. HR Conversations enables managers and HR leaders to initiate communications with employees, and enhancements to performance assessments allow for 360-degree feedback digitally within the tool. Benefits administration software solution that manages the employee-benefit enrollment process for both open-enrollment and life events. Time and attendance solutions, including our integrated Paychex Flex Time software, provide timekeeping, scheduling, and workforce analytics. The InVision TM IRIS Time Clock, a biometric clock that scans the iris, provides fast and accurate time capture. Paychex Flex Time also works with wearable technology to allow for employees to clock in and out using their smartwatch. Applicant tracking suite provides technology solutions that streamline, simplify, and drive the applicant workflow and onboarding process for companies of all sizes. Regulatory compliance solutions: We offer new-hire reporting solutions, which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report information on newly hired employees. This information aids federal and state governments in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent unemployment and workers compensation insurance claims. Our garnishment processing solution provides deductions from employees pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the obligations to fulfillment. These solutions enable employers to comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties. We also offer comprehensive solutions to help employers and employees with certain mandates under the Affordable Care Act ( ACA ), which sets forth specific coverage and reporting requirements that employers must meet. 6 Table of Contents Other HR solutions and support: We offer the outsourcing of plan administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation, administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer state unemployment insurance solutions, which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. Business services: We offer various business solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Paychex Advance, LLC, provides a portfolio of solutions to the temporary staffing industry, including payroll funding (via the purchase of accounts receivable) and outsourcing services, which include payroll processing, invoicing, and tax preparation. Alterna Capital Solutions, LLC ( Alterna ), which was acquired in July 2023, offers funding to small businesses through the purchase of outstanding accounts receivable balances under non-recourse agreements. In addition, through partnerships with third-party providers, we provide clients opportunities for solutions such as payment processing services, financial programs, and a small-business loan resource center. PEO and Insurance Solutions: PEO solutions: Our licensed PEO subsidiaries offer businesses a combined package that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and both virtual and on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. What differentiates our PEO solutions from our ASO solutions is that we serve as a co-employer of our clients employees and assume the risks and rewards of certain workers compensation insurance and certain health insurance offerings. We are certified under the Small Business Efficiency Act to provide PEO solutions. We offer the PEO Protection Plus Package, which helps business owners protect their bottom line from unforeseen costs, including cyberattacks and employee lawsuits. Insurance solutions: Our licensed insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc., provides insurance through a variety of carriers, allowing employers to expand their employee benefit and corporate offerings at an affordable cost. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers compensation, business-owner policies, cybersecurity protection, commercial auto, and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Our insurance solutions simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client s needs. With access to numerous top national and regional insurance carriers, our professional insurance agents have access to a wide selection of plans from which they can best match the insurance needs of small businesses. Additionally, clients have the option to integrate their insurance plans with Paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate plan administration. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our solutions and support primarily through our direct sales force based in the markets we serve. Our direct sales force includes sales representatives who have defined geographical territories and specialize within our portfolio of solutions. Our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs. Our virtual sales force manages inbound sales leads, sales in areas without a direct sales force presence, and sales of various ancillary solutions. In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we utilize other indirect sales channels such as our relationships with existing clients, certified public account