Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 9 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2 Properties 15 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 15 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 15 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 15 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 74 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 74 Item 9B Other Information 74 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 75 Item 11 Executive Compensation 76 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 76 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 77 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 77 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 78 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 80 i Table of Contents PA RT I CAU TIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO THE UNITED STATES PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain written and oral statements made by management of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries ( we, our, us, Paychex, or the Company ) may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States ( U.S. ) Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words and phrases as we expect, expected to, estimates, estimated, intend, overview, outlook, guidance, we look forward to, would equate to, projects, projections, projected, projected to be, anticipates, anticipated, we believe, believes, could be, targeting, and other similar words or phrases. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding operating performance, events, or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, including statements relating to our outlook, revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations, and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy, and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict, many of which are outside our control. Our actual results and financial conditions may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance upon any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19 on the U.S. and global economy and on our ability to provide services to our clients; changes in governmental regulations and policies; our ability to comply with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations; our ability to keep pace with changes in technology and to provide timely enhancements to our products and services; our compliance with data privacy laws and regulations; the possibility of cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities and Internet disruptions, including breaches of data security and privacy leaks, data loss and business interruptions; the possibility of failure of our operating facilities, computer systems, or communication systems during a catastrophic event, including the outbreak of COVID-19; the failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions; the possibility that we may be subject to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship with our professional employer organization ( PEO ); changes in health insurance and workers compensation insurance rates and underlying claim trends; our clients failure to reimburse us for payments made by us on their behalf; the effect of changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or the timing of remittances; volatility in the political and economic environment; risks related to acquisitions and the integration of the businesses we acquire, including integrating Oasis Outsourcing Group Holdings, L.P. s ( Oasis ) business with ours; our failure to comply with covenants in our debt agreements; changes in the availability of qualified people, including management, technical, compliance and sales personnel; 1 Table of Contents our failure to protect our intellectual property rights; the possible effects of negative publicity on our reputation and the value of our brand; and potenti a l outcomes related to pending or future litigation matters. Any of these factors, as well as such other factors as discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and throughout Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K ( Form 10-K ), as well as in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. The information provided in this Form 10 - K is based upon the facts and circumstances known as of the date of this report, and any forward-looking statements made by us in this Form 10 - K speak only as of the date on which they are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of filing this Form 10-K with the SEC to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our investor presentation regarding the financial results for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020 is available and accessible at Paychex s Investor Relations page at https://www.paychex.com/investors . Information available on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this Form 10-K. We intend to make future investor presentations available exclusively through our Investor Relations page. 2 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms Paychex, we, us, our and the Company refer to Paychex, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of integrated human capital management ( HCM ) solutions for human resources ( HR ), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. Our purpose is to allow our customers the freedom to succeed. The workplace is evolving, and we lead the way by making complex HR, payroll, and benefits simple for our clients. Paychex incorporated in Delaware in 1979 and has a fiscal year that ends May 31st. We maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and serve clients throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. As of May 31, 2020, we served greater than 680,000 payroll and PEO clients. For any organization, a key function is the effective management of human capital which requires both resources and expertise. Organizations are faced with complex and ever-changing requirements, including diverse federal, state and local regulations across multiple jurisdictions. In addition, the workplace is rapidly changing as employees increasingly become mobile, work remotely, and expect a user experience similar to consumer-oriented Internet applications. We focus on helping small- to medium-sized businesses who do not have the resources or expertise to adapt to the constantly evolving environment. The COVID-19 environment has further accelerated certain trends and increased regulatory complexity. Paychex offers a wide range of services including a fully outsourced HR solution, payroll processing, retirement services, and insurance allowing us to customize our offering to the client s business, whether it is small or large, simple or complex. We believe that we have the breadth of solutions to cover the spectrum of the employee life cycle, but we also allow integration with some of the most popular HR, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications on the market today. Our comprehensive solutions allow our clients to manage their workforces effectively from hire to retire. We provide leading-edge HCM technology solutions, coupled with human expertise, to make complex HR, payroll, and benefits issues simple for our clients. The key features of our solutions are: Comprehensive cloud-based platform optimized to meet the payroll and HCM needs of small and medium-sized organizations; Streamlined workforce management that combines technology with flexible service options; Modern, mobile, and intuitive user experience and self-service capabilities that significantly increase employee engagement; Scalable and customizable platform that allows clients the ability to add services as they grow; Software as a service, or SaaS , delivery model that reduces total cost of ownership for our clients; and Over 45 years of expertise in HR and payroll with our technology backed by over 200 compliance experts and 600 HR business partners. We market our solutions through our direct and virtual sales forces which are supported by various corporate lead generation and marketing initiatives. Over 50% of our revenues are gained from our services beyond payroll processing. We focus on providing an industry-leading client experience, and continue to see improving client satisfaction scores and retention. Company Strategy Our mission is to be the leading provider of HR, payroll, benefits, and insurance solutions by being an essential partner to small and medium-sized businesses across the U.S. and parts of Europe. We believe that success in this mission will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. We intend to strengthen and extend our position as a leading provider through continued investments in both our technology and service offerings. Key elements of our strategy include: Providing industry-leading, integrated technology . We continue to invest significantly in our award-winning Paychex Flex platform and mobility applications to increase efficiency and functionality for our clients and their employees. 3 Table of Contents Increasing client satisfaction. Our flexible service model and technology-enabled service allows us to provide a personalized service experience for our clients and their employees. We continue to invest in artificial intelligence and machine learning and self-service capabilities to allow clients and their employees easy, intuitive, and flexible service how, when, and where they want it. Expanding our leadership in HR. We have a comprehensive suite of value-added HR Solutions for our clients and their employees. Greater than half of our revenues are from HR and benefits solutions beyond payroll. After several strategic PEO acquisitions over the past several years, we are now the second largest provider of PEO services in the nation. With over 600 HR business partners, we have extensive expertise that we believe sets us apart in the industry. Growing our client base. We believe there is significant potential to grow within our current target markets. We have invested significantly in new demand generation and sales tools and expanding certain areas of our sales force. We continue to focus on sales productivity with the intent of expanding our market share across all our product lines. Engaging in strategic acquisitions . In the past, we utilized acquisitions as a mean to expand our portfolio, enter new markets or increase our scale. We continue to evaluate and monitor potential acquisitions and will utilize this when the acquisitions are in alignment with our overall strategy. Our Solutions Our solutions bring together payroll and HCM software with flexible, personalized technology-enabled service capabilities. Clients have the option of doing payroll online using our SaaS technology, outsourcing to our payroll specialists or using a combination of those solutions. Payroll is then integrated with HCM software modules for clients who have more complex HR needs. We also provide comprehensive HR outsourcing through our administrative services organization ( ASO ) and PEO solutions. The integration of leading-edge technology and flexible service options allows us to meet our clients needs how, when, and where they want. HCM Technology: Paychex Flex is our proprietary HCM SaaS platform that unites HR, payroll, time and attendance, and benefits processes to maximize efficiency and savings. Paychex Flex helps clients manage the employee life cycle from recruiting and hiring to retirement, providing an integrated suite of solutions including recruiting, onboarding, HR, time and attendance and employee benefits. It utilizes a single cloud-based platform, with single client and employee records. Clients can select the modules they need and easily add on additional services as they grow. In addition, Paychex Flex presents function-focused analytics throughout the platform, assisting HR leaders with making more informed business decisions. Paychex Flex uses a mobile-first design throughout our HCM suite, which allows full functionality of all application components, regardless of device or screen size. We believe our Paychex mobile applications add greater value and convenience for our clients and their employees by allowing them instant access on their mobile device. We continue to invest in Paychex Flex, making significant enhancements designed to simplify the complexity of HR. The latest enhancements include expansion of our integration capabilities to connect users with some of the world s leading business tools, a Help Center that gives users access to training and how-to tutorials, a pay-on-demand solution to grant employees access to earned wages before their scheduled pay day, a custom dashboard, and a newly enhanced grid entry view which offers more flexibility, customization, and visibility into employee pay data. We also expanded into wearable technology where Paychex Flex Time users can also use our smartwatch solution, which enables users to track time worked via their smartwatch, making the time and attendance tracking process easier for an increasingly remote workforce. HR and Compliance Expertise: Paychex supports its HCM software solutions with over 45 years of experience. We have over 600 HR professionals who are dedicated to our clients and have the experience and training to provide HR best practices and advice. Our HR business partners are available to provide our ASO and PEO clients with specific guidance on HR issues. In addition, we have over 200 compliance professionals who are in real-time contact with tax agencies and regulators to understand upcoming or newly enacted laws and regulations, and advocate for our clients interests. The contributions of these compliance experts are intended to ensure that our HCM solutions are updated timely to adhere to regulations and to help our clients stay in compliance. Technology-Enabled Client Service: Paychex Flex also provides technology-enabled service with options that include self-service, a 24/7 dedicated service center, an individual payroll specialist, and integrated service via a multi-product service center. In addition, mid-market clients can utilize a relationship manager for more personalized service. This flexible platform services our small- to medium-sized clients, and a portion of our PEO business. 4 Table of Contents Within Paychex Flex there is embedded technology to assist clients. The Paychex Flex Intelligence Engine includes the Flex Assistant, a customer service chatbot who can answer over 200 commonly asked questions. Our Flex Intelligence Engine allows clients to elect their preference for learning via written how-to-documents, tutorial-style video vignettes, or a guided interactive tour. At any time, a live Paychex agent is just a click away, with the entire chat conversation available real-time to provide a better, more personalized service experience. The platform embeds self-service capabilities that empower client employees to manage their HR and benefits information from any location, on any device. These self-service capabilities allow for greater access and convenience for client employees and greater productivity for clients. Our Clients Paychex has HR solutions to fit the needs of any small- to medium-sized business, from do-it-yourself payroll to comprehensive HR outsourcing. The target market for our integrated HCM solutions is small- to medium-sized businesses. Within this space, we serve a diverse base of clients operating in a broad range of industries throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. The flexibility and scalability of our solutions allow our clients to define the solution that best meets their needs and to grow within the Flex platform. We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that generally do not contain specified contract periods, and may be terminated by either party with 30-days notice of termination. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020 ( fiscal 2020 ), client retention was at record levels of over 83% of our beginning client base for the fiscal year. We support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. We simplify their payroll with a combination of our products and customer service options for a quick and easy payday. Clients may choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or process payroll themselves utilizing our proprietary, robust SaaS Paychex Flex platform and our SurePayroll SaaS-based products. Both products allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone). Our mid-market clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs, though with the environment of increasing regulations, we believe the need for HR outsourcing services has been moving down-market. Any of our clients on Paychex Flex can opt for the integrated suite of HCM solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business. While Paychex Flex is our primary SaaS-based platform utilized by the majority of our clients for their HCM needs, there are some clients that use other platforms, including SurePayroll clients, certain PEO clients, and some smaller tenured clients. Both our small and mid-market clients can choose one of our comprehensive HR outsourcing services, which include ASO and PEO solutions, and participate in our benefits offerings, which include our insurance and retirement services. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client s needs. Our retirement services product line offers many plan design options to meet the client s requirements, as well as investment options. Description of Services Within our HCM solutions we offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse HR and payroll needs. Clients can select services on an la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. Our offerings often leverage the information gathered in our base payroll processing service, allowing us to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum. Our portfolio of services is comprised of the following: Management Solutions: Payroll processing services: Our payroll processing services include the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal accounting records and management reports; preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection and remittance of clients payroll obligations. 5 Table of Contents Payroll tax administration services: Payroll tax administration services provide for accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the applicable federal, state, and local tax or regulatory agencies. In connection with these services, we electronically collect payroll taxes from clients bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are typically paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with some items extending up to 90 days. We handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes. Employee payment services: Our employee payment services provide an employer the option of paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a check drawn on a Paychex account (Readychex ), or a check drawn on the employer s account and electronically signed by us. For each of the first three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the clients bank accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide payment to the employees on payday. Our Readychex service provides a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation for employers. We also allow employers to opt for more flexible pay options. Same day ACH functionality is also available for clients using direct deposit, allowing employers the flexibility to pay employees via direct deposit on the same day they initiate payroll. In addition, we are giving business owners the ability to leverage real-time payments to process payroll and deliver net pay to their employees immediately for time worked. Pay-on-demand functionality enables an employee to request access to a portion of earned pay before the scheduled pay date, which is deposited into a traditional bank account or a third-party account. Regulatory compliance services: We offer new-hire reporting services, which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report information on newly hired employees. This information aids the government in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent unemployment and workers compensation insurance claims. Our garnishment processing service provides deductions from employees pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the obligations to fulfillment. These services enable employers to comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties. We also offer comprehensive solutions to help employers and employees with certain mandates under the Affordable Care Act ( ACA ), which sets forth specific coverage and reporting requirements that employers must meet. HR Solutions (ASO): Our ASO offers businesses a combined package that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. Paychex HR Essentials is an ASO product that provides support to our clients over the phone or online to help manage employee-related topics. Retirement services administration: Our retirement services product line offers a variety of options to clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE plans, SIMPLE IRAs, 401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, owner-only 401(k) plans, profit sharing plans, and money purchase plans. These services provide plan implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative services. Auto enrollment is an optional plan feature that allows employers to automatically enroll employees in their company s 401(k) plan and increase overall plan participation. Clients may choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or customize their investment options within their plan. We are the largest 401(k) recordkeeper for small businesses in the U.S. Our large-market retirement services clients include relationships with financial advisors. HR administration services: We offer cloud-based HR administration software for employee benefits management and administration, time and attendance solutions, recruiting, and onboarding. o Paychex HR Online offers powerful tools for managing employee personnel information, performance management, HR compliance and reporting. Our Learning Management solution compliments our performance management. When combined with our workflow and approval engine, we offer clients the flexibility to capture ongoing performance feedback, recommend and enroll employees in specific training courses, and leverage automated workflows to track progress and approve compensation changes tied to performance. o Benefits administration software manages the employee-benefit enrollment process for both open-enrollment and life events. 6 Table of Contents o Time and attendance products, including our integrated Flex Time software, provide timekeeping, scheduling, and workforce analytics. The InVision TM IRIS Time Clock, a biometric clock that scans the iris, provides fast and accurate time capture. Paychex Flex Time also works with wearable technology to allow for employees to clock in and out using their smartwatch. o Applicant tracking suite provides technology that streamlines, simplifies, and drives the applicant workflow and onboarding process for companies of all sizes. Other HR services and products: We offer the outsourcing of plan administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation, administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. Business services: We offer various business services to small- to medium-sized businesses. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Paychex Advance, LLC, provides a portfolio of services to the temporary staffing industry, including payroll funding (via the purchase of accounts receivable) and outsourcing services, which include payroll processing, invoicing, and tax preparation. Paychex Promise, a subscription-based service, offers protection against payroll interruptions and solutions to address routine challenges of running a successful business. The primary offering is payroll protection, which extends the collection of payroll funds from a client s bank account by seven days without interruption of service or charges for insufficient funds. In addition, through partnerships with third-party providers, we provide clients opportunities for services such as payment processing services, financial fitness programs, and a small-business loan resource center. PEO and Insurance Solutions: PEO solutions: Our licensed subsidiaries, Paychex Business Solutions, LLC, HR Outsourcing Holdings, Inc. ( HROi ), and Oasis offer businesses a combined package that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. What differentiates our PEO solutions from our ASO solutions is that we serve as a co-employer of our clients employees, offer health care coverage to PEO client employees, and assume the risks and rewards of workers compensation insurance and certain benefit insurance offerings. We are certified under the Small Business Efficiency Act to provide PEO solutions. Insurance solutions: Our licensed insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc., provides insurance through a variety of carriers, allowing employers to expand their employee benefit and corporate offerings at an affordable cost. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers compensation, business-owner policies, cyber security protection, commercial auto, and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client s needs. With access to numerous top national and regional insurance carriers, our professional insurance agents have access to a wide selection of plans from which they can best match the insurance needs of small businesses. Additionally, clients have the option to integrate their insurance plans with Paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate plan administration. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services primarily through our direct sales force based in the markets we serve. Our direct sales force includes sales representatives who have defined geographical territories and specialize within our portfolio of services. Our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs. Our virtual sales force manages inbound sales leads for the under 10 employee space, sales in areas without a direct sales force presence, and sales of various ancillary services. In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we utilize other indirect sale