Item 1. Business 1 Regulatory Issues 14 Environmental Matters 21 Information About Our Executive Officers (PSEG) 23 Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 39 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 39 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 41 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Executive Overview of 2019 and Future Outlook 42 Results of Operations 48 Liquidity and Capital Resources 54 Capital Requirements 58 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 59 Critical Accounting Estimates 60 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 67 Consolidated Financial Statements 73 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 91 Note 2. Recent Accounting Standards 96 Note 3. Revenues 99 Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions 103 Note 5. Variable Interest Entity (VIE) 104 Note 6. Property, Plant and Equipment and Jointly-Owned Facilities 105 Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 106 Note 8. Leases 111 Note 9. Long-Term Investments 114 Note 10. Financing Receivables 115 Note 11. Trust Investments 117 Note 12. Goodwill and Other Intangibles 122 Note 13. Asset Retirement Obligations (AROs) 123 Note 14. Pension, Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB) and Savings Plans 124 Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities 133 Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities 140 Note 17. Schedule of Consolidated Capital Stock 144 i Table of Contents TABLE OF CONTENTS ( continued) Note 18. Financial Risk Management Activities 145 Note 19. Fair Value Measurements 149 Note 20. Stock Based Compensation 154 Note 21. Other Income (Deductions) 157 Note 22. Income Taxes 158 Note 23. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax 167 Note 24. Earnings Per Share (EPS) and Dividends 171 Note 25. Financial Information by Business Segment 171 Note 26. Related-Party Transactions 173 Note 27. Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited) 175 Note 28. Guarantees of Debt 176 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 179 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 179 Item 9B. Other Information 179 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 184 Item 11. Executive Compensation 185 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 185 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 185 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 185 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 186 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 192 Signatures 193 ii Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain of the matters discussed in this report about our and our subsidiaries future performance, including, without limitation, future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects, consequences and all other statements that are not purely historical constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such statements are based on management s beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used herein, the words anticipate, intend, estimate, believe, expect, plan, should, hypothetical, potential, forecast, project, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ are often presented with the forward-looking statements themselves. Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements made by us herein are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A), Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities , and other filings we make with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. These factors include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in wholesale power and natural gas markets, including the potential impacts on the economic viability of our generation units; our ability to obtain adequate fuel supply; market risks impacting the operation of our generating stations; increases in competition in wholesale energy and capacity markets; changes in technology related to energy generation, distribution and consumption and customer usage patterns; economic downturns; third-party credit risk relating to our sale of generation output and purchase of fuel; adverse performance of our nuclear decommissioning and defined benefit plan trust fund investments and changes in funding requirements; the impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulations on our business, including PSE G s ability to recover costs and earn returns on authorized investments; PSE G s proposed investment programs may not be fully approved by regulators and its capital investment may be lower than planned; the impact on our New Jersey nuclear plants if such plants are not awarded Zero Emission Certificates (ZEC) in future periods, there is an adverse change in the amount of future ZEC payments, the ZEC program is overturned or modified through legal proceedings or if adverse changes are made to the capacity market construc t; adverse changes in energy industry laws, policies and regulations, including market structures and transmission planning; the impact of state and federal actions aimed at combating climate change on our natural gas assets; risks associated with our ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, including regulatory risks, such as compliance with the Atomic Energy Act and trade control, environmental and other regulations, as well as financial, environmental and health and safety risks; changes in federal and state environmental regulations and enforcement; delays in receipt of, or an inability to receive, necessary licenses and permits; the impact of any future rate proceedings; adverse outcomes of any legal, regulatory or other proceeding, settlement, investigation or claim applicable to us and/or the energy industry; changes in tax laws and regulations; the impact of our holding company structure on our ability to meet our corporate funding needs, service debt and pay dividends; iii Table of Contents lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or changes in customer demand; any inability of PSEG Power to meet its commitments under forward sale obligations; reliance on transmission facilities that we do not own or control and the impact on our ability to maintain adequate transmission capacity; any inability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, or construct generation, transmission and distribution projects; any equipment failures, accidents, severe weather events or other incidents that impact our ability to provide safe and reliable service to our customers; our inability to exercise control over the operations of generation facilities in which we do not maintain a controlling interest; any inability to recover the carrying amount of our long-lived assets and leveraged leases; any inability to maintain sufficient liquidity; any inability to realize anticipated tax benefits or retain tax credits; challenges associated with recruitment and/or retention of key executives and a qualified workforce; the impact of our covenants in our debt instruments on our operations; and the impact of acts of terrorism, cybersecurity attacks or intrusions. All of the forward-looking statements made in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements and we cannot assure you that the results or developments anticipated by management will be realized or even if realized, will have the expected consequences to, or effects on, us or our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements in making any investment decision. Forward-looking statements made in this report apply only as of the date of this report. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even in light of new information or future events, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. iv Table of Contents FILING FORMAT This combined Annual Report on Form 10-K is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE G) and PSEG Power LLC (PSEG Power). Information relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. PSE G and PSEG Power are each only responsible for information about itself and its subsidiaries. Discussions throughout the document refer to PSEG and its direct operating subsidiaries, PSE G and PSEG Power. Depending on the context of each section, references to we, us, and our relate to PSEG or to the specific company or companies being discussed. WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may obtain our filed documents from commercial document retrieval services, the SEC s internet website at www.sec.gov or our website at investor.pseg.com. Information on our website should not be deemed incorporated into or as a part of this report. Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol PEG. You can obtain information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We were incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We conduct our business through two direct wholly owned subsidiaries, PSE G and PSEG Power, each of which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We are an energy company with a diversified business mix. Our operations are located primarily in the Northeastern and Mid- Atlantic United States. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries operating results. Below are descriptions of our two principal direct operating subsidiaries. PSE G PSEG Power A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a franchised public utility in New Jersey. It is also the provider of last resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory. Earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and gas distribution to residential, commercial and industrial customers in its service territory. It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory. Also invests in regulated solar generation projects and regulated energy efficiency and related programs in New Jersey. A Delaware limited liability company formed in 1999 as a result of the deregulation and restructuring of the electric power industry in New Jersey. It integrates the operations of its merchant nuclear and fossil generating assets with its power marketing businesses and fuel supply functions through competitive energy sales in well-developed energy markets. Earns revenues from the generation and marketing of power and natural gas to hedge business risks and optimize the value of its portfolio of power plants, other contractual arrangements and oil and gas storage facilities. This is achieved primarily by selling power and transacting in natural gas and other energy-related products, on the spot market or using short-term or long-term contracts for physical and financial products. Also earns revenues from solar generation facilities under long-term sales contracts for power and environmental products. 1 Table of Contents Our other direct wholly owned subsidiaries are: PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), which operates the Long Island Power Authority s (LIPA) electric transmission and distribution (T D) system under a contractual agreement; PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings), which earns its revenues primarily from its portfolio of lease investments; and PSEG Services Corporation (Services), which provides us and our operating subsidiaries with certain management, administrative and general services at cost. The following is a more detailed description of our business, including a discussion of our: Business Operations and Strategy Competitive Environment Employee Relations Regulatory Issues Environmental Matters BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY PSE G Our regulated T D public utility, PSE G, distributes electric energy and gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately 6.2 million people, or about 70% of New Jersey s population resides. Products and Services Our utility operations primarily earn margins through the T D of electricity and the distribution of gas. Transmission the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our 2 Table of Contents revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Distribution the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). The commodity portion of our utility business electric and gas sales is managed by basic generation service (BGS) and basic gas supply service (BGSS) suppliers. Pricing for those services is set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for our utility operations. We also earn margins through competitive services, such as appliance repair, in our service territory. In addition to our current utility products and services, we have implemented several programs to invest in regulated solar generation within New Jersey, including: programs to help finance the installation of solar power systems throughout our electric service area, and programs to develop, own and operate solar power systems. We have also implemented a set of energy efficiency and demand response programs to encourage conservation and energy efficiency by providing energy and cost-saving measures directly to businesses and families. How PSE G Operates We are a transmission owner in PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM) and we provide distribution service to 2.3 million electric customers and 1.9 million gas customers in a service area that covers approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most densely populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including its six largest cities and approximately 300 suburban and rural communities. Transmission We use formula rates for our transmission cost of service and investments. Formula rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission owner annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula that considers Operation and Maintenance expenditures, rate base and capital investments and applies an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average cost of capital. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are subsequently trued up to reflect actual annual expenses and capital expenditures. Our current approved rates provide for a base ROE of 11.18% on existing and new transmission investment, while certain investments are entitled to earn an additional incentive rate. We continue to invest in transmission projects that are included for review in the FERC-approved PJM transmission expansion process. These projects focus on reliability improvements and replacement of aging infrastructure with planned capital spending of $2.8 billion for transmission in 2020-2022 as disclosed in Item 7. MD A Capital Requirements . Distribution PSE G distributes gas and electricity to end users in our respective franchised service territories. In October 2018, the BPU issued an Order approving the settlement of our distribution base rate proceeding with new rates effective November 1, 2018. The Order provides for a distribution rate base of $9.5 billion, a 9.60% ROE for our distribution business and a 54% equity component of our capitalization structure. The BPU has also approved a series of PSE G infrastructure, energy efficiency and renewable energy investment programs with cost recovery through various clause mechanisms. Our load requirements are split among residential, commercial and industrial (C I) customers, as described in the following table for 2019 : % of 2019 Sales Customer Type Electric Gas Commercial 58% 38% Residential 33% 58% Industrial 9% 4% Total 100% 100% 3 Table of Contents Our customer base has modestly increased since 2015, with electric and gas loads changing as illustrated below: Electric and Gas Distribution Statistics December 31, 2019 Number of Customers Electric Sales and Firm Gas Sales (A) Historical Annual Load Growth 2015-2019 Electric 2.3 Million 40,684 Gigawatt hours (GWh) % Gas 1.9 Million 2,589 Million Therms (0.3)% (A) Excludes sales from Gas rate classes that do not impact margin, specifically Contract, Non-Firm Transportation, Cogeneration Interruptible and Interruptible Services. Electric sales were essentially flat with increases due to growth in the number of customers and improved economic conditions offset by conservation and more energy efficient appliances. Firm gas sales decreased slightly as a result of warmer weather in 2019 mostly offset by growth in the number of customers and customer response to continued low gas prices. Only firm gas sales impact margin. In 2019, we commenced our BPU-approved Gas System Modernization Program II (GSMP II), an expanded, five-year program to invest $1.9 billion beginning in 2019 to replace approximately 875 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel mains in addition to other improvements to the gas system. In 2019, the BPU approved our Energy Strong Program II (ES II), an $842 million program to harden, modernize and improve the resiliency of our electric and gas distribution systems. This program began in the fourth quarter of 2019 and is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. Approximately $692 million of the program will be recovered through periodic rate recovery filings, with the balance to be recovered in our next distribution base rate case, which is required to be filed no later than December 2023. In October 2018, we filed our proposed Clean Energy Future (CEF) program with the BPU, a six-year estimated $3.5 billion investment covering four programs: (i) an Energy Efficiency (EE) program designed to achieve energy efficiency targets required under New Jersey s Clean Energy law; (ii) an Electric Vehicle (EV) infrastructure program; (iii) an Energy Storage (ES) program and (iv) an Energy Cloud (EC) program which will include installing approximately two million electric smart meters and associated infrastructure. The BPU is reviewing the CEF-EE program concurrently with its efforts to complete a stakeholder process to define key terms and policy parameters regarding returns, amortization and lost revenue recovery related to implementing energy efficiency programs statewide. Additionally, New Jersey released its Energy Master Plan in January 2020, which is supportive of energy efficiency but gives the BPU discretion in implementation between state-and utility-operated programs. In February 2020, PSE G reached an agreement with parties in the CEF-EE matter which was approved by the BPU to (a) extend several existing EE programs for six months, with an additional $111 million investment over the course of the programs, and (b) extend the timeline for review of the CEF-EE filing through September 2020. In addition, the BPU has circulated to the parties procedural schedules for the proposed $1 billion investment in CEF-EC, CEF-EV and CEF-ES programs. Solar Generation We have undertaken two major solar initiatives at PSE G, the Solar Loan Program and the Solar 4 All Programs. Our Solar Loan Program provides solar system financing to our residential and commercial customers. The loans are repaid with cash or solar renewable energy certificates (SRECs). We sell the SRECs received through periodic auctions and use the proceeds to offset program costs. Our Solar 4 All Programs invest in utility-owned solar photovoltaic (PV) grid-connected solar systems installed on PSE G property and third-party sites, including landfill facilities, and solar panels installed on distribution system poles in our electric service territory. We sell the energy and capacity from the systems in the PJM wholesale electricity market. In addition, we sell SRECs generated by the projects through the same periodic auction used in the Solar Loan program, the proceeds of which are used to offset program costs. Supply Although commodity revenues make up almost 39% of our revenues, we make no margin on the default supply of electricity and gas since the actual costs are passed through to our customers. All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their electric energy and/or gas supplier. Pursuant to BPU requirements, we serve as the supplier of last resort for two types of electric and gas customers within our service territory that are not served by another supplier. The first type, which represents about 79% of PSE G s load requirements, provides default supply service for smaller C I customers and residential customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices for a three-year 4 Table of Contents term (BGS-Residential Small Commercial Pricing (RSCP)). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type provides default supply for larger customers, with energy priced at hourly PJM real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-Commercial Industrial Energy Pricing). We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which energy suppliers are authorized to supply BGS to New Jersey s electric distribution companies (EDCs). Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set. Approximately one-third of PSE G s total BGS-RSCP eligible load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. For information on current prices, see Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities . PSE G procures the supply requirements of its default service BGSS gas customers through a full-requirements contract with PSEG Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. PSE G s revenues are matched with its costs using deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by September 30 of each year. In addition, we have the ability to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to 5% and also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time and/or provide bill credits. See Item 8. Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities . Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in future rates. C I customers that do not select third-party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market-based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts. Markets and Market Pricing Historically, there has been significant volatility in commodity prices. Such fluctuations can have a considerable impact on us since a rising commodity price environment results in higher delivered electric and gas rates for customers. This could result in decreased demand for electricity and gas, increased regulatory pressures and greater working capital requirements as the collection of higher commodity costs from our customers may be deferred under our regulated rate structure. A declining commodity price, on the other hand, would be expected to have the opposite effect. PSEG Power Through PSEG Power, we seek to produce low-cost electricity by efficiently operating our nuclear, gas, oil-fired and renewable generation assets while balancing generation output, fuel requirements and supply obligations through energy portfolio management. Our commitments for load, such as BGS in New Jersey and other bilateral supply contracts, are backed by the generation we own and may be combined with the use of physical commodity purchases and financial instruments from the market to optimize the economic efficiency of serving the load. PSEG Power is a public utility within the meaning of the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the payments it receives and how it operates are subject to FERC regulation. PSEG Power is also subject to certain regulatory requirements imposed by state utility commissions such as those in New York and Connecticut. Products and Services As a merchant generator and power marketer, our profit is derived from selling a range of products and services under contract to an array of customers, including utilities, other power marketers, such as retail energy providers, or counterparties in the open market. These products and services may be transacted bilaterally or through exchange markets and include but are not limited to: Energy the electrical output produced by generation plants that is ultimately delivered to customers for use in lighting, heating, air conditioning and operation of other electrical equipment. Energy is our principal product and is priced on a usage basis, typically in cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) or dollars per megawatt hour (MWh). Capacity distinct from energy, capacity is a market commitment that a given generation unit will be available to an Independent System Operator (ISO) for dispatch to produce energy when it is needed to meet system demand. Capacity is typically priced in dollars per MW for a given sale period (e.g. day or month). Ancillary Services related activities supplied by generation unit owners to the wholesale market that are required by the ISO to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the bulk power system. Owners of generation units may bid units into the ancillary services market in return for compensatory payments. Costs to pay generators for ancillary services are recovered through charges collected from market participants. 5 Table of Contents Congestion and Renewable Energy Credits Congestion credits (or Financial Transmission Rights) are financial instruments that entitle the holder to a stream of revenues (or charges) based on the hourly congestion price differences across a transmission path. Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) are obtained through PSEG Power s owned renewable generation or purchased in the open market. Electric suppliers of load are required to deliver a certain amount or percentage of their delivered power from renewable resources as mandated by applicable regulatory requirements. PSEG Power also sells wholesale natural gas, primarily through a full-requirements BGSS contract with PSE G to meet the gas supply requirements of PSE G s customers. In 2014, the BPU approved an extension of the long-term BGSS contract to March 31, 2019 , and thereafter the contract remains in effect unless terminated by either party with a two-year notice. Approximately 46% of PSE G s peak daily gas requirements is provided from PSEG Power s firm gas transportation capacity. PSEG Power satisfies the remainder of PSE G s requirements from storage contracts, contract peaking supply, liquefied natural gas and propane. Based upon the availability of natural gas beyond PSE G s daily needs, PSEG Power sells gas to others and uses it for its generation fleet. PSEG Power also owns and operates 467 MW direct current (dc) of PV solar generation facilities. PSEG Power also has a 50% ownership interest in a 208 MW oil-fired generation facility in Hawaii. The remainder of this section about PSEG Power covers our nuclear and fossil fleet in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions which comprises the vast majority of PSEG Power s operations and financial performance. How PSEG Power s Generation Operates Nearly all of our generation capacity consists of nuclear and fossil generation that is located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States in some of the country s largest and most developed electri