Item 1. Business 1 Operations and Strategy 2 Competitive Environment 9 Human Capital Management 10 Regulatory Issues 12 Environmental Matters 18 Information About Our Executive Officers (PSEG) 21 Item 1A. Risk Factors 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Executive Overview of 2021 and Future Outlook 39 Results of Operations 48 Liquidity and Capital Resources 53 Capital Requirements 57 Critical Accounting Estimates 59 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34 ) 65 Consolidated Financial Statements 70 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 82 Note 2. Recent Accounting Standards 88 Note 3. Revenues 89 Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions and Impairments 94 Note 5. Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) 96 Note 6. Property, Plant and Equipment and Jointly-Owned Facilities 97 Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 98 Note 8. Leases 104 Note 9. Long-Term Investments 107 Note 10. Financing Receivables 108 Note 11. Trust Investments 109 Note 12. Intangibles 115 Note 13. Asset Retirement Obligations (AROs) 116 Note 14. Pension, Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB) and Savings Plans 117 i Table of Contents TABLE OF CONTENTS ( continued) Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities 126 Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities 133 Note 17. Schedule of Consolidated Capital Stock 138 Note 18. Financial Risk Management Activities 138 Note 19. Fair Value Measurements 143 Note 20. Stock Based Compensation 146 Note 21. Other Income (Deductions) 150 Note 22. Income Taxes 151 Note 23. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax 157 Note 24. Earnings Per Share (EPS) and Dividends 159 Note 25. Financial Information by Business Segment 160 Note 26. Related-Party Transactions 163 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 164 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 164 Item 9B. Other Information 164 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 164 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 168 Item 11. Executive Compensation 169 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 169 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 169 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 169 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 170 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 175 Signatures 176 ii Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain of the matters discussed in this report about our and our subsidiaries future performance, including, without limitation, future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects, consequences and all other statements that are not purely historical constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such statements are based on management s beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used herein, the words anticipate, intend, estimate, believe, expect, plan, should, hypothetical, potential, forecast, project, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ are often presented with the forward-looking statements themselves. Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements made by us herein are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A), Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, and other filings we make with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. These factors include, but are not limited to: any inability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, or construct transmission and distribution, and solar and wind generation projects; the physical, financial and transition risks related to climate change, including risks relating to potentially increased legislative and regulatory burdens, changing customer preferences and lawsuits; any equipment failures, accidents, critical operating technology or business system failures, severe weather events, acts of war, terrorism, sabotage, cyberattack or other incidents, including pandemics such as the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, that may impact our ability to provide safe and reliable service to our customers; any inability to recover the carrying amount of our long-lived assets; disruptions or cost increases in our supply chain, including labor shortages; any inability to maintain sufficient liquidity or access sufficient capital on commercially reasonable terms; the impact of cybersecurity attacks or intrusions or other disruptions to our information technology, operational or other systems; the impact of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic; failure to attract and retain a qualified workforce; inflation, including increases in the costs of equipment, materials, fuel and labor; the impact of our covenants in our debt instruments on our business; adverse performance of our nuclear decommissioning and defined benefit plan trust fund investments and changes in funding requirements; the failure to complete, or delays in completing, the Ocean Wind offshore wind project and the failure to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this project; fluctuations in wholesale power and natural gas markets, including the potential impacts on the economic viability of our generation units; our ability to obtain adequate fuel supply; market risks impacting the operation of our generating stations; changes in technology related to energy generation, distribution and consumption and changes in customer usage patterns; third-party credit risk relating to our sale of generation output and purchase of fuel; any inability of PSEG Power to meet its commitments under forward sale obligations; reliance on transmission facilities to maintain adequate transmission capacity for our power generation fleet; the impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulations on our business, including PSE G s ability to recover costs and earn returns on authorized investments; iii Table of Contents PSE G s proposed investment programs may not be fully approved by regulators and its capital investment may be lower than planned; the absence of a long-term legislative or other solution for our New Jersey nuclear plants that sufficiently values them for their carbon-free, fuel diversity and resilience attributes, or the impact of the current or subsequent payments for such attributes being materially adversely modified through legal proceedings; adverse changes in and non-compliance with energy industry laws, policies, regulations and standards, including market structures and transmission planning and transmission returns; risks associated with our ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, including increased nuclear fuel storage costs, regulatory risks, such as compliance with the Atomic Energy Act and trade control, environmental and other regulations, as well as financial, environmental and health and safety risks; changes in federal and state environmental laws and regulations and enforcement; delays in receipt of, or an inability to receive, necessary licenses and permits; and changes in tax laws and regulations. All of the forward-looking statements made in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements and we cannot assure you that the results or developments anticipated by management will be realized or even if realized, will have the expected consequences to, or effects on, us or our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements in making any investment decision. Forward-looking statements made in this report apply only as of the date of this report. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even in light of new information or future events, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws. In August 2021, PSEG entered into two agreements to sell PSEG Power s 6,750 MW fossil generating portfolio to newly formed subsidiaries of ArcLight Energy Partners Fund VII, L.P., a fund controlled by ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC. In February 2022, PSEG completed the sale of this fossil generating portfolio. As a result, risks highlighted in these forward-looking statements that relate solely to this 6,750 MW fossil generating portfolio, except for those related to certain assets and liabilities excluded from the sale transactions, primarily for obligations under environmental regulations, including possible remediation obligations under the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act and the Connecticut Transfer Act, are no longer relevant to our business. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. iv Table of Contents FILING FORMAT This combined Annual Report on Form 10-K is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) and Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE G). Information relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. PSE G is only responsible for information about itself and its subsidiaries. Discussions throughout the document refer to PSEG and its direct operating subsidiaries. Depending on the context of each section, references to we, us, and our relate to PSEG or to the specific company or companies being discussed. WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may obtain our filed documents from commercial document retrieval services, the SEC s internet website at www.sec.gov or our website at investor.pseg.com. Information on our website should not be deemed incorporated into or as a part of this report. Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol PEG. You can obtain information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We were incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We principally conduct our business through two direct wholly owned subsidiaries, PSE G and PSEG Power LLC (PSEG Power), each of which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We are an energy company with a diversified business mix. Our operations are located primarily in the Northeastern and Mid- Atlantic United States. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries operating results. Below are descriptions of our two principal direct operating segments. PSE G A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a franchised public utility in New Jersey. It is also the provider of last resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory. PSE G earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution to residential, commercial and industrial (C I) customers in its service territory. It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory and invests in regulated solar generation projects and regulated energy efficiency and related programs in New Jersey. PSEG Power A Delaware limited liability company formed in 1999 as a result of the deregulation and restructuring of the electric power industry in New Jersey. PSEG Power earns revenues from the generation and marketing of power and natural gas to hedge business risks and optimize the value of its portfolio of power plants, other contractual arrangements and oil and gas storage facilities. PSEG Power is no longer an SEC registrant; however, it continues to be consolidated and reported in PSEG s financial statements as a wholly owned subsidiary and operating segment. As discussed below, in 2021 PSEG Power sold its solar facilities and entered into two agreements to sell PSEG Power s 6,750 megawatts (MW) fossil generation asset portfolio. In February 2022, we completed the sale of this fossil generation portfolio which represented an important milestone in our strategy. See Item 8. Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions and Impairments for additional information. As a result, disclosures in this Item 1 and otherwise in this document that relate solely to this 6,750 MW fossil generation asset portfolio, except for those related to certain assets and liabilities excluded from the sale transactions, primarily for obligations under environmental regulations, including possible remediation obligations under the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act and the Connecticut Transfer Act, are no longer relevant. Over the past few years, our investments have altered our business mix to reflect a higher percentage of earnings contribution by PSE G, which improves the sustainability and predictability of our earnings and cash flows. The sale of the fossil generating portfolio further alters our business mix, resulting in an even higher percentage of earnings contribution by PSE G going forward and provides more financial flexibility. 1 Table of Contents Our other direct wholly owned subsidiaries are: PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings), which holds our investments in offshore wind ventures and legacy portfolio of lease investments; PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), which operates the Long Island Power Authority s (LIPA) electric transmission and distribution (T D) system under a contractual agreement; and PSEG Services Corporation (Services), which provides us and our operating subsidiaries with certain management, administrative and general services at cost. OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY PSE G Our regulated T D public utility, PSE G, distributes electric energy and natural gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately 6.5 million people, or about 70% of New Jersey s population resides. Products and Services Our utility operations primarily earn margins through: Transmission the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Distribution the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). The commodity portion of our utility business electric and gas sales is managed by basic generation service (BGS) and basic gas supply service (BGSS) suppliers. Pricing for those services is set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for our utility operations. We also earn margins through competitive services, such as appliance repair, in our service territory. 2 Table of Contents In addition to our current utility products and services, we have implemented a set of programs to encourage conservation and energy efficiency by providing energy and cost-saving measures directly to businesses and families. Our largest program, Clean Energy Future, as described below, encompasses four programs (i) Energy Efficiency; (ii) Electric Vehicle make ready charging infrastructure; (iii) Energy Cloud and (iv) Energy Storage, three of which we began implementing in 2021. We have also implemented several programs to invest in regulated solar generation within New Jersey, including programs to help finance the installation of solar power systems throughout our electric service area, and programs to develop, own and operate solar power systems. How PSE G Operates We are a transmission owner in PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM) and we provide distribution service to 2.3 million electric customers and 1.9 million gas customers in a service area that covers approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most densely populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including its six largest cities and approximately 300 suburban and rural communities. Transmission We use formula rates for our transmission cost of service and investments. Formula rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission owner annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula that provides for a recovery of our operating costs and a return of and on our capital investments in the system, net of depreciation expense and deferred taxes (also known as rate base) using an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average cost of capital. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are subsequently trued up to reflect actual annual expenses and capital expenditures. Our current approved rates provide for a base ROE of 9.90% and a 50 basis point adder for our membership in PJM as a Regional Transmission Operator (RTO). See Item 7. MD A Executive Overview of 2021 and Future Outlook. We continue to invest in transmission projects that are included for review in the FERC-approved PJM transmission expansion process. These projects focus on reliability improvements and replacement of aging infrastructure with planned capital spending of $2.3 billion for transmission in 2022-2024 as disclosed in Item 7. MD A Capital Requirements. Distribution PSE G distributes electricity and natural gas to end users in our respective franchised service territories. In October 2018, the BPU issued an Order approving the settlement of our distribution base rate proceeding with new rates effective November 1, 2018. The Order provides for a distribution rate base of $9.5 billion, a 9.60% ROE for our distribution business and a 54% equity component of our capitalization structure. The BPU has also approved a series of PSE G infrastructure, energy efficiency, electric vehicle and renewable energy investment programs with cost recovery through various clause mechanisms. For a discussion of proposed and approved programs, see Clean Energy Future Program below and Item 7. MD A Executive Overview of 2021 and Future Outlook. Our load requirements are split among residential, C I customers, as described in the following table for 2021: % of 2021 Sales Customer Type Electric Gas Commercial 56% 37% Residential 35% 59% Industrial 9% 4% Total 100% 100% 3 Table of Contents Our customer base has modestly increased since 2017, with electric and gas loads changing as illustrated in the following table: Electric and Gas Distribution Statistics December 31, 2021 Number of Customers Electric Sales and Firm Gas Sales (A) Historical Annual Load Growth 2017-2021 Electric 2.3 Million 40,163 Gigawatt hours (GWh) (0.7)% Gas 1.9 Million 2,422 Million Therms 0.5% (A) Excludes sales from Gas rate classes that do not impact margin, specifically Contract, Non-Firm Transportation, Cogeneration Interruptible and Interruptible Services. Electric sales declined due to the economic impact of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) on commercial usage, greater conservation, more energy efficient appliances and increases in solar net metering installations, partially offset by an increase in residential sales due to a significant number of customers working from home during the pandemic and customer growth. Firm gas sales increased due to higher residential sales due to the pandemic, customer growth and customer response to continued low gas prices. Effective June 1 and October 1, 2021 for electric and gas, respectively, as part of the BPU s approval of the Clean Energy Future-Energy Efficiency filing, we implemented the Conservation Incentive Program (CIP) that trues up PSE G s margin to a baseline per customer from our 2018 base rate case for the majority of our customers. As a result, electric gas sales volumes and demands are no longer a driver of our margin and over 90% of our Electric and Gas Distribution margin will only vary based upon the number of customers. Clean Energy Future (CEF) Program We have launched three of the four components of our CEF program: Energy Efficiency (EE) a $1 billion three-year commitment with the majority of the investment occurring over a five-year period, approved by the BPU in September 2020, is designed to achieve energy efficiency targets required under New Jersey s Clean Energy Act through a suite of ten programs for residential, C I programs, including low-income, multi-family, small business and local government. Energy Cloud (EC) a $707 million four-year investment, approved by the BPU in January 2021, driven by the implementation of smart meters, and new software and product solutions to improve our processes and better manage the electric grid. Electric Vehicle (EV) a $166 million six-year investment, approved by the BPU in January 2021, primarily relating to preparatory work to deliver infrastructure to the charging point for three programs: residential smart charging; Level-2 mixed use charging; and direct current (dc) fast charging. A remaining component of our program related to medium and heavy duty charging infrastructure has been the subject of a stakeholder process at the BPU. Our CEF-Energy Storage program is being held in abeyance pending future policy guidance from the BPU. Our proposed Energy Storage program is for a $109 million investment that encompasses solar smoothing, whereby a battery energy solar system is used to neutralize fluctuations in solar output to facilitate its entry into the grid, distribution investment deferral, outage management, microgrids and peak reduction for municipal facilities. For additional information on the recovery of revenues, capital costs and expenses related to the CEF program, see Item 7. MD A Executive Overview of 2021 and Future Outlook. Solar Generation We have undertaken two major solar initiatives at PSE G, the Solar Loan Program and the Solar 4 All Programs. Our Solar Loan Program provides solar system financing to our residential and commercial customers. The loans are repaid with cash or solar renewable energy certificates (SRECs). We sell the SRECs received through periodic auctions and use the proceeds to offset program costs. Our Solar 4 All Programs invest in utility-owned solar photovoltaic (PV) grid-connected solar systems installed on PSE G property and third-party sites, including landfill facilities, and solar panels installed on distribution system poles in our electric service territory. We sell the energy from the systems in the PJM wholesale electricity market. In addition, we sell SRECs generated by the projects through the same periodic auction used in the Solar Loan program, the proceeds of which are used to offset program costs. In both programs, our economics are driven by our net investment in solar, with a contemporaneous return on that rate base. 4 Table of Contents Supply Although commodity revenues make up almost 34% of our revenues, we make no margin on the default supply of electricity and gas since the actual costs are passed through to our customers. All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their electric energy and/or gas supplier. Pursuant to BPU requirements, we serve as the supplier of last resort for two types of electric and gas customers within our service territory that are not served by another supplier. The first type provides default supply service for smaller C I customers and residential customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices for a three-year term (BGS-Residential Small Commercial Pricing (RSCP)). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type provides default supply for larger customers, with energy priced at hourly PJM real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-Commercial Industrial Energy Pricing). We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set. Approximately one-third of PSE G s total BGS-RSCP eligible load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. For information on current prices, see Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. PSE G procures the supply requirements of its default service BGSS gas customers through a full-requirements contract with PSEG Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each year, with a targeted effective date of provisional rates by October 1. PSE G s revenues are matched with its costs using deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by September 30 of each year. In addition, we have the ability to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to 5% and also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time and/or provide bill credits. Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in future rates. C I customers that do not select third-party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market-based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts. Markets and Market Pricing Historically, there has been significant volatility in commodity prices. Such fluctuations can have a considerable impact on us since a rising commodity price environment results in higher delivered electric and gas rates for customers. This could result in decreased demand for electricity and gas, increased regulatory pressures and greater working capital requirements as the collection of higher commodity costs from our customers may be deferred under our regulated rate structure. A declining commodity price, on the other hand, would be expected to have the opposite effect. PSEG Power Through PSEG Power, we have sought to produce low-cost electricity by efficiently operating our nuclear and gas/oil-fired generation assets while balancing generation output, fuel requirements and supply obligations through energy portfolio management. PSEG Power is a public utility within the meaning of the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the payments it receives and how it operates are subject to FERC regulation. PSEG Power is also subject to certain regulatory requirements imposed by state utility commissions such as those in New York and Connecticut. In June 2021, we completed the sale of PSEG Power s solar portfolio. In August 2021, we entered into two agreements to sell PSEG Power s 6,750 MW of fossil generation located in New Jersey, Connecticut, New York and Maryland to newly formed subsidiaries of ArcLight Energy Partners Fund VII, L.P., a fund controlled by ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC. In February 2022, we completed the sale of this fossil generation portfolio. See Item 8. Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions and Impairments for further discussion. Products and Services As a merchant generator, our revenue is derived from selling a range of products and services under contract to an array of customers, including utilities, power marketers, such as retail energy providers, or counterparties in the open market. These products and services may be transacted bilaterally or through exchange markets and include but are not limited to: Energy the electrical output produced by generation plants that is ultimately delivered to customers for use in lighting, heating, air conditioning and operation of other electrical equipment. Energy is our principal product and is priced on a usage basis, typically in cents per kilowatt hour or dollars per megawatt hour (MWh). 5 Table of Contents Capacity distinct from energy, capacity is a market commitment that a given generation unit will be available to an Independent System Operator (ISO) for dispatch to produce energy when it is needed to meet system demand. Capacity is typically priced in dollars per MW for a given sale period (e.g. day or month). Ancillary Services