Item 1. Business 1 Operations and Strategy 2 Competitive Environment 7 Human Capital Management 8 Regulatory Issues 9 Environmental Matters 14 Information About Our Executive Officers (PSEG) 16 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 30 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. [Reserved] 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Executive Overview of 2023 and Future Outlook 36 Results of Operations 41 Liquidity and Capital Resources 45 Capital Requirements 49 Critical Accounting Estimates 50 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34 ) 56 Consolidated Financial Statements 60 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 72 Note 2. Revenues 77 Note 3. Asset Dispositions and Impairments 82 Note 4. Variable Interest Entity (VIE) 82 Note 5. Property, Plant and Equipment and Jointly-Owned Facilities 83 Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 84 Note 7. Leases 89 Note 8. Long-Term Investments 93 Note 9. Financing Receivables 93 Note 10. Trust Investments 95 Note 11. Asset Retirement Obligations (AROs) 100 Note 12. Pension, Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB) and Savings Plans 102 Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities 111 i Table of Conte n t s TABLE OF CONTENTS ( continued) Note 14. Debt and Credit Facilities 117 Note 15. Schedule of Consolidated Capital Stock 121 Note 16. Financial Risk Management Activities 121 Note 17. Fair Value Measurements 126 Note 18. Stock Based Compensation 129 Note 19. Net Other Income (Deductions) 132 Note 20. Income Taxes 133 Note 21. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax 140 Note 22. Earnings Per Share (EPS) and Dividends 142 Note 23. Financial Information by Business Segment 142 Note 24. Related-Party Transactions 145 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 146 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 146 Item 9B. Other Information 146 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 146 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 150 Item 11. Executive Compensation 151 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 151 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 151 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 151 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 152 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 157 Signatures 158 ii Table of Conte n t s FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain of the matters discussed in this report about our and our subsidiaries future performance, including, without limitation, future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects, consequences and all other statements that are not purely historical constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such statements are based on management s beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used herein, the words anticipate, intend, estimate, believe, expect, plan, should, hypothetical, potential, forecast, project, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ are often presented with the forward-looking statements themselves. Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements made by us herein are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A), Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, and other filings we make with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. These factors include, but are not limited to: any inability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, or construct transmission and distribution, and our nuclear generation projects; the physical, financial and transition risks related to climate change, including risks relating to potentially increased legislative and regulatory burdens, changing customer preferences and lawsuits; any equipment failures, accidents, critical operating technology or business system failures, natural disasters, severe weather events, acts of war, terrorism or other acts of violence, sabotage, physical attacks or security breaches, cyberattacks or other incidents that may impact our ability to provide safe and reliable service to our customers; any inability to recover the carrying amount of our long-lived assets; disruptions or cost increases in our supply chain, including labor shortages; any inability to maintain sufficient liquidity or access sufficient capital on commercially reasonable terms; the impact of cybersecurity attacks or intrusions or other disruptions to our information technology, operational or other systems; a material shift away from natural gas toward increased electrification and a reduction in the use of natural gas; failure to attract and retain a qualified workforce; increases in the costs of equipment, materials, fuel, services and labor; the impact of our covenants in our debt instruments and credit agreements on our business; adverse performance of our defined benefit plan trust funds and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund and increases in funding requirements and pension costs; any inability to extend certain significant contracts on terms acceptable to us; development, adoption and use of Artificial Intelligence by us and our third-party vendors; fluctuations in, or third-party default risk in wholesale power and natural gas markets, including the potential impacts on the economic viability of our generation units; our ability to obtain adequate nuclear fuel supply; changes in technology related to energy generation, distribution and consumption and changes in customer usage patterns; third-party credit risk relating to our sale of nuclear generation output and purchase of nuclear fuel; any inability to meet our commitments under forward sale obligations and Regional Transmission Organization rules; the impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulations on our business, including PSE G s ability to recover costs and earn returns on authorized investments; iii Table of Conte n t s PSE G s proposed investment projects or programs may not be fully approved by regulators and its capital investment may be lower than planned; our ability to receive sufficient financial support for our New Jersey nuclear plants from the markets, production tax credit and/or zero emission certificates program; adverse changes in and non-compliance with energy industry laws, policies, regulations and standards, including market structures and transmission planning and transmission returns; risks associated with our ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, including increased nuclear fuel storage costs, regulatory risks, such as compliance with the Atomic Energy Act and trade control, environmental and other regulations, as well as operational, financial, environmental and health and safety risks; changes in federal and state environmental laws and regulations and enforcement; delays in receipt of, or an inability to receive, necessary licenses and permits and siting approvals; and changes in tax laws and regulations. All of the forward-looking statements made in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements and we cannot assure you that the results or developments anticipated by management will be realized or even if realized, will have the expected consequences to, or effects on, us or our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements in making any investment decision. Forward-looking statements made in this report apply only as of the date of this report. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even in light of new information or future events, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. From time to time, PSEG and PSE G release important information via postings on their corporate Investor Relations website at https://investor.pseg.com. Investors and other interested parties are encouraged to visit the Investor Relations website to review new postings. You can sign up for automatic email alerts regarding new postings at the bottom of the webpage at https://investor.pseg.com or by navigating to the Email Alerts webpage at https://investor.pseg.com/resources/email-alerts/default.aspx. The information on https://investor.pseg.com and https://investor.pseg.com/resources/email-alerts/default.aspx is not incorporated herein and is not part of this Form 10-K. iv Table of Conte n t s FILING FORMAT This combined Annual Report on Form 10-K is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) and Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE G). Information relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. PSE G is only responsible for information about itself and its subsidiaries. Discussions throughout the document refer to PSEG and its direct operating subsidiaries. Depending on the context of each section, references to we, us, and our relate to PSEG or to the specific company or companies being discussed. WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may obtain our filed documents from commercial document retrieval services, the SEC s internet website at www.sec.gov or our website at https://investor.pseg.com. Information on our website should not be deemed incorporated into or as a part of this report. Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol PEG. You can obtain information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We were incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We principally conduct our business through two direct wholly owned subsidiaries, PSE G and PSEG Power LLC (PSEG Power), each of which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We are a public utility holding company consisting primarily of a regulated electric and gas utility and a nuclear generation business. Over the past several years, our investments resulted in a higher percentage of earnings contribution by PSE G. The sale of the fossil generating portfolio in 2022 further simplified our business mix, resulting in an even higher percentage of earnings contribution by PSE G going forward and provides more financial flexibility. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries operating results. Below are descriptions of our two principal direct operating subsidiaries. PSE G A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a franchised public utility in New Jersey. It is also the provider of last resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory. PSE G earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution to residential, commercial and industrial (C I) customers in its service territory. It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory and invests in regulated solar generation projects and regulated energy efficiency (EE) and related programs in New Jersey. PSEG Power A Delaware limited liability company formed in 1999 as a result of the deregulation and restructuring of the electric power industry in New Jersey. PSEG Power earns revenues from its nuclear generation and marketing of power and natural gas to hedge business risks and the value of its portfolio of nuclear power plants, other contractual arrangements and gas storage facilities. In February 2022, we completed the sale of our 6,750 megawatt (MW) fossil generation portfolio which represented an important milestone in our strategy. See Item 8. Note 3. Asset Dispositions and Impairments for additional information. Our other direct wholly owned subsidiaries are: PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), which operates the Long Island Power Authority s (LIPA) electric transmission and distribution (T D) system under a contractual agreement; PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings), which primarily holds our legacy lease investments and competitively bid, FERC regulated transmission; and PSEG Services Corporation (Services), which provides us and our operating subsidiaries with certain management, administrative and general services at cost. 1 Table of Conte n t s OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY PSE G Our regulated T D public utility, PSE G, distributes electric energy and natural gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately 6.8 million people, or about 74% of New Jersey s population resides. Products and Services Our utility operations primarily earn margins through: Transmission the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Distribution the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). The commodity portion of our utility business electric and gas sales is managed by basic generation service (BGS) and basic gas supply service (BGSS) suppliers. Pricing for those services is set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for our utility operations. In addition, we continue to invest in and pursue opportunities in regulated clean energy, including EE, electric vehicle (EV) make-ready charging infrastructure, solar, energy storage and other potential investments. We also earn margins through competitive services, such as appliance repair, in our service territory. How PSE G Operates We are a transmission owner in PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM) which is an Independent System Operator (ISO) and Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) that operates the electric transmission system in the Mid-Atlantic Region, including 2 Table of Conte n t s New Jersey and the surrounding states. We provide distribution service to 2.4 million electric customers and 1.9 million gas customers in a service area that covers approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most densely populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including its six largest cities and approximately 300 suburban and rural communities. Transmission We use formula rates for our transmission cost of service and investments. Formula rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission owner annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula that provides for a recovery of our operating costs and a return of and on our capital investments in the system, net of accumulated depreciation and deferred tax liabilities (also known as rate base) using an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average cost of capital. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are subsequently trued up to reflect actual annual expenses and capital expenditures. Our transmission revenues are not impacted by sales volumes. Our current approved transmission rates provide for a base ROE of 9.90% and a 50 basis point adder for our membership in PJM as an RTO. See Item 7. MD A Executive Overview of 2023 and Future Outlook. Distribution PSE G distributes electricity and natural gas to end users in our respective franchised service territories. Our distribution rates are subject to periodic rate cases approved by the BPU. The BPU has also approved a series of PSE G infrastructure, EE, EV and renewable energy investment programs with cost recovery through various clause mechanisms. Our current approved distribution base rates provide for an ROE of 9.6%. In December 2023, we filed a distribution base rate case as required by the BPU. For a discussion of our recent distribution base rate case filing, see Item 7. MD A Executive Overview of 2023 and Future Outlook. For a discussion of proposed and approved programs, see Investment Clause Programs as follows and Item 7. MD A Executive Overview of 2023 and Future Outlook. Our load requirements are split among residential, C I customers, as described in the following table for 2023: % of 2023 Sales Customer Type Electric Gas Commercial 58% 38% Residential 33% 58% Industrial 9% 4% Total 100% 100% Our customer base has modestly increased since 2019, with electric and gas loads changing as illustrated in the following table: Electric and Gas Distribution Statistics Number of Customers as of December 31, 2023 Historical Annual Customer Growth 2019-2023 Electric Sales and Firm Gas Sales as of December 31, 2023 (A) Historical Annual Load Decline 2019-2023 Electric 2.4 Million 0.9 % 39,085 Gigawatt hours (1.4)% Gas 1.9 Million 0.6 % 2,282 Million Therms (2.8)% (A) Excludes sales from Gas rate classes that do not impact margin, specifically Contract, Non-Firm Transportation, Cogeneration Interruptible and Interruptible Services. Effective June 1 and October 1, 2021 for electric and gas, respectively, as part of the BPU s approval of the Clean Energy Future-Energy Efficiency (CEF-EE) filing, we implemented the Conservation Incentive Program (CIP) that trues up PSE G s margin to a baseline per customer from our 2018 distribution base rate case for the majority of our customers. As a result, electric gas sales volumes and demands are no longer a driver of our margin and over 90% of our Electric and Gas Distribution margin will only vary based upon the number of customers. While there has been a recent decrease in load due to a decline in larger industrial customers, greater EE and other factors, PJM s most recent forecast indicates an increase in load over the next several years due to the increasing adoption of EVs, the expansion of data centers and other large users in our area, ongoing growth in the number of customers, other sources of electrification and other factors, which will collectively drive the need for increased system investment in the future. 3 Table of Conte n t s Investment Clause Programs The following table lists our major approved investment clause programs that are in progress: Program Investment Approval Date Term of Investment Year Started Gas System Modernization Program II (GSMP II) Extension $902 million 2023 2 years (A) 2024 Energy Strong II Program $842 million 2019 4 years (B) 2019 CEF-EE $1 billion 2020 5 years (C) 2020 CEF-EE Extension $280 million 2023 9 months 2023 CEF-Energy Cloud (EC) $707 million 2021 4 years 2021 CEF-EV $166 million 2021 ~6 years 2021 Infrastructure Advancement Program (IAP) $511 million 2022 4 years 2022 (A) The program has a small amount of trailing costs expected to be spent in year 3. (B) The program has a small amount of trailing costs expected to be spent in year 5. (C) Rolling three-year program with over 80% of spending within 5 years, with limited spending thereafter. GSMP II Extension designed to replace at least 400 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel mains and services in our gas system. Energy Strong II Program structured to harden, modernize and improve the resiliency of our electric and gas distribution systems. To date, we launched three of the four components of our CEF : EE designed to achieve EE targets required under New Jersey s Clean Energy Act through a suite of ten programs for residential, C I programs, including low-income, multi-family, small business and local government. EC driven by the implementation of smart meters, and new software and product solutions to improve our processes and better manage the electric grid. EV primarily relating to preparatory work to deliver infrastructure to the charging point for three programs: residential smart charging; Level-2 mixed use charging; and direct current (dc) fast charging. Our CEF-Energy Storage (ES) program, which was filed with the BPU in October 2018, is being held in abeyance. Our proposed ES program is for a $109 million investment that encompasses solar smoothing, whereby a battery energy solar system is used to neutralize fluctuations in solar output to facilitate its entry into the grid, distribution investment deferral, outage management, microgrids and peak reduction for municipal facilities. IAP designed to improve the reliability of the last mile of our electric distribution system and address aging substations and gas metering and regulation stations. See Item 7. MD A Executive Overview of 2023 and Future Outlook for additional information. Solar Generation We have also undertaken solar initiatives at PSE G, which primarily invest in utility-owned solar photovoltaic (PV) grid-connected solar systems installed on PSE G property and third-party sites with our economics driven by our net investment in solar, with a contemporaneous return on that rate base. Supply We make no margin on the default supply of electricity and gas since the actual costs are passed through to our customers. All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their electric energy and/or gas supplier. Pursuant to BPU requirements, we serve as the supplier of last resort for two types of electric and gas customers within our service territory that are not served by another supplier. The first type provides default supply service for smaller C I customers and residential customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices for a three-year term (BGS-Residential Small Commercial Pricing (RSCP)). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type provides default supply for larger customers, with energy priced at hourly PJM real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-Commercial Industrial Energy Pricing). 4 Table of Conte n t s We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set. Approximately one-third of PSE G s total BGS-RSCP eligible load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. For information on current prices, see Item 8. Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. PSE G procures the supply requirements of its default service BGSS gas customers through a full-requirements contract with PSEG Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each year, with a targeted effective date of provisional rates by October 1. PSE G s revenues are matched with its costs using deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by September 30 of each year. In addition, we have the ability to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to 5% and also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time and/or provide bill credits. Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in future rates. C I customers that do not select third-party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market-based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts. PSEG Power Other PSEG Power Other is predominantly comprised of its nuclear generation assets, its natural gas supply operations, the Operating Services Agreement (OSA) of PSEG LI with LIPA, and other legacy investments. PSEG Power is a public utility within the meaning of the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the payments it receives and how it operates are subject to FERC regulation. PSEG Power Products and Services As a nuclear generation owner and operator, our revenue has been derived primarily from energy, capacity and ancillary services sold to PJM in the spot markets. These products and services may also be transacted through exchange markets or bilaterally. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) was signed into law expanding incentives that promote carbon-free generation. The enacted legislation established the production tax credit (PTC) for electricity generation using nuclear energy, which begins January 1, 2024 and is available through 2032. PSEG Power s Salem 1, Salem 2, Hope Creek, Peach Bottom 2 and Peach Bottom 3 nuclear plants are expected to benefit from the PTC. The expected PTC rate is up to $15 per megawatt hour (MWh) subject to adjustment based upon a facility s gross receipts and meeting prevailing wage rules. The PTC rate and the gross receipts threshold are subject to annual inflation adjustments. Until additional guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury, we are unable to fully determine the impacts of the PTC. PSEG Power also sells wholesale natural gas, primarily through a full-requirements BGSS contract with PSE G to meet the needs of PSE G s default service customers. In 2022, the BPU approved an extension of the long-term BGSS contract to March 31, 2027, and thereafter the contract remains in effect unless terminated by either party with a two-year notice. PSEG Power supplies PSE G s peak daily gas requirements through its balanced portfolio of firm gas transportation capacity, storage contracts, contract peaking supply, and liquefied natural gas and propane. Based upon the availability of natural gas beyond PSE G s actual daily needs, PSEG Power sells gas to other customers and shares these proceeds with PSE G s customers. How PSEG Power s Nuclear Generation Operates As of December 31, 2023, PSEG Power had 3,761 MW of nuclear generation capacity. All of our nuclear generation capacity is located in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Generation Dispatch Our nuclear generation is considered to be base load. Base load units run the most and typically are called to operate whenever they are available. Variable operating costs are low due to the combination of highly efficient operations and the use of relatively lower-cost fuels. Performance is generally measured by the unit s capacity factor, or the ratio of the actual output to the theoretical maximum output. In PJM, owners of power plants specify prices at which they are prepared to generate and sell energy based on the marginal cost of generating energy from each individual unit. Typically, the bid price of the last unit dispatched by PJM establishes the energy market-clearing price. 5 Table of Conte n t s This method of determining supply and pricing creates a situation where natural gas prices often have a major influence on the price that generators will receive for their output, especially in periods of relatively strong or weak demand. Therefore, changes in the price of natural gas will often translate into changes in the wholesale price of electricity and will continue to have a strong influence on the price of electricity in the markets in which we operate. Market wholesale prices may vary by location resulting from congestion or other factors and do not necessarily reflect our contract prices. Forward prices are volatile and there can be no assurance that current forward prices will remain in effect or that we will be able to contract output at these forward prices. The PTC is expected to mitigate our exposure to this volatility and provide support for the nuclear units. Nuclear Fuel Supply We have long-term contracts for nuclear fuel. These contracts provide for: purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride), conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of uranium hexafluoride, and fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies. We expect to be able to meet the nuclear fuel supply demands of our operations. However, the ability to maintain an adequate fuel supply could be affected by several factors not within our control, including changes in prices and demand