Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 2 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 7 Item 2. Properties 7 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 7 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 7 Information about our Executive Officers 8 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 9 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 11 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 11 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures a bout Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Management's Report and Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 33 Consolidated Statements of Earnings 37 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 38 Consolidated Balance Sheets 39 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity 40 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 41 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 42 Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 42 Note 2: Segment Information 44 Note 3: Supplemental Financial Information 46 Note 4: Goodwill and Intangible Assets 47 Note 5: Income Taxes 48 Note 6: Earnings Per Share 50 Note 7: Stock-based Compensation 51 Note 8: Postretirement Benefits and Employee Stock Ownership Plan 53 Note 9: Risk Management Activities and Fair Value Measurements 58 Note 10: Short-term and Long-term Debt 61 Note 11: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) 62 Note 12: Leases 62 Note 13: Commitments and Contingencies 63 Note 14: Merck Acquisition 64 Note 15: Quarterly Results (Unaudited) 65 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 65 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 65 Item 9B. Other Information 65 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 66 Item 11. Executive Compensation 66 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 66 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 67 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 67 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 67 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 69 Signatures 70 Exhibit Index 71 The Procter Gamble Company 1 PART I Item 1. Business. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD A); and Notes 1 and 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the "Company," "P G," "we," "our" or "us" as used herein refer to The Procter Gamble Company (the registrant) and its subsidiaries. The Procter Gamble Company is focused on providing branded products of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers, now and for generations to come. The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having first been established as a New Jersey corporation in 1890, and was built from a business founded in Cincinnati in 1837 by William Procter and James Gamble. Today, our products are sold in more than 180 countries and territories. Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, are filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains these reports at: www.sec.gov. You can also access these reports through links from our website at: www.pginvestor.com. P G includes the website link solely as a textual reference. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, by contacting EQ Shareowner Services, 1100 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101, Mendota, MN 55120-4100. Financial Information about Segments Information about our reportable segments can be found in the MD A and Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Narrative Description of Business Business Model . Our business model relies on the continued growth and success of existing brands and products, as well as the creation of new innovative products and brands. The markets and industry segments in which we offer our products are highly competitive. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries and territories through numerous channels as well as direct-to-consumer. Our growth strategy is to deliver meaningful and noticeable superiority in all elements of our consumer proposition - product, packaging, brand communication, retail execution and consumer and customer value equation. We use our research and development and consumer insights to provide superior products and packaging. We utilize our marketing and online presence to deliver superior brand messaging to our consumers. We work collaboratively with our customers to deliver superior retail execution, both in-store and online. In conjunction with the above elements, we provide superior value to consumers and our retail customers in each price tier in which we compete. Productivity improvement is also critical to delivering our objectives of balanced top and bottom-line growth and value creation. Key Product Categories . Information on key product categories can be found in the MD A and Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Key Customers . Our customers include mass merchandisers, e-commerce, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, distributors, wholesalers, baby stores, specialty beauty stores (including airport duty-free stores), high-frequency stores, pharmacies, electronics stores and professional channels. These customers sell our products to individual consumers. We also sell direct to consumers. Sales to Walmart Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 15% of our total sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018. No other customer represents more than 10% of our total sales. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 38% of our total sales in 2020 and 36% in 2019 and 2018. The nature of our business does not result in material backlog orders or contracts with the government. We believe our practices related to working capital items for customers and suppliers are consistent with the industry segments in which we compete. Sources and Availability of Materials . Almost all of the raw and packaging materials used by the Company are purchased from third parties, some of whom are single-source suppliers. We produce certain raw materials, primarily chemicals, for further use in the manufacturing process. In addition, fuel, natural gas and derivative products are important commodities consumed in our manufacturing processes and in the transportation of input materials and finished products to customers. The prices we pay for materials and other commodities are subject to fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass the change to our customers. The Company purchases a substantial variety of other raw and packaging materials, none of which are material to our business taken as a whole. Trademarks and Patents . We own or have licenses under patents and registered trademarks, which are used in connection with our activity in all businesses. Some of these patents or licenses cover significant product formulation and processes used to manufacture our products. The trademarks are important to the overall marketing and branding of our products. All major trademarks in each business are registered. In part, our success can be attributed to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses. Competitive Condition . The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. Our products compete against similar products of many large and small companies, including well-known global competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as retailers' private-label brands. We are well positioned in 2 The Procter Gamble Company the industry segments and markets in which we operate, often holding a leadership or significant market share position. We support our products with advertising, promotions and other marketing vehicles to build awareness and trial of our brands and products in conjunction with our sales force. We believe this combination provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products. Product quality, performance, value and packaging are also important differentiating factors. Expenditures for Environmental Compliance . Expenditures for compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not material to the Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2021. Employees . As of June 30, 2020, the Company had approximately 99,000 employees, an increase of two percent versus the prior year due to business growth and in-sourcing of certain media planning and other services. The total number of employees is an estimate of total Company employees excluding interns, co-ops, contractors and employees of joint ventures. The number of employees includes manufacturing and non-manufacturing employees.