ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business The Progressive Corporation, an insurance holding company, has insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries and affiliates (references in this Item to subsidiaries includes affiliates as well). Our insurance subsidiaries write personal and commercial auto insurance, personal residential property insurance, business-related general liability and commercial property insurance predominantly for small businesses, workers compensation insurance primarily for the transportation industry, and other specialty property-casualty insurance and provide related services. Our non-insurance subsidiaries generally support our insurance and investment operations. We operate throughout the United States. Unless noted, references to state(s) throughout this report include the District of Columbia. The Progressive Corporation, together with its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries and affiliates, comprise what we refer to as Progressive. Progressive s vision is to become consumers , agents , and business owners number one destination for insurance and other financial needs. Progressive s four strategic pillars of people and culture, broad needs of our customers, leading brand, and competitive prices serve as the foundation of how we will achieve our vision. Description of Business Organization The management team that oversees the business and corporate functions that support all areas of our organization consists of the following: Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chief Financial Officer Personal Lines President Chief Investment Officer Property General Manager Chief Human Resources Officer Commercial Lines President Chief Information Officer Claims President Chief Legal Officer Customer Relationship Chief Marketing Officer Management President Chief Strategy Officer Our insurance and claims organizations are generally managed on a state-by-state basis due to the nature of insurance, legal and regulatory requirements, and other local factors, and are supplemented by national operations and supported by our corporate functions. State-specific organizations typically report to a regional general manager, who then reports to the applicable group president. In California, we operate a separate agency auto organization with its own management and customer relationship management organization. Personal Lines Our Personal Lines segment writes insurance for personal autos and recreational vehicles, which we refer to as our special lines products. This business generally offers more than one program in a single state, with each program targeted to a specific distribution channel, market, or customer group. As of December 31, 2023, we wrote our Personal Lines products in all states, however, our special lines products are not written in the District of Columbia. The Personal Lines business accounted for 79% of our total net premiums written in 2023, 77% in 2022, and 78% in 2021. The Personal Lines segment consists of personal auto and special lines products. Personal auto insurance represented approximately 94% of our total Personal Lines net premiums written in 2023, 2022, and 2021. We ranked second in market share in the U.S. private passenger auto insurance market, based on 2022 premiums written, and we believe we continue to hold that position for 2023. There are approximately 250 competitors in this market. Progressive and the other leading 15 private passenger auto insurers, each of which writes over $2.5 billion of premiums annually, comprise 84% of this market. All industry data, including ranking and market share, based on premiums written, has been obtained directly from data reported by either SNL Financial or A.M. Best Company, Inc. (A.M. Best), or was estimated using A.M. Best data as the primary source. - 1 - Special lines products, which include insurance for motorcycles, ATVs, RVs, watercraft, snowmobiles, and similar items, represented the remaining Personal Lines net premiums written for the years mentioned above. Due to the seasonal nature of these products, we typically experience higher losses during the warmer weather months. Our competitors are specialty companies and large multi-line insurance carriers. Although industry figures are not available, based on our analysis of this market, we believe that we are the market share leader for both the motorcycle and boat products and that we are one of the largest providers of RV insurance. Our Personal Lines products are sold through both the Agency and Direct channels. The Agency business includes business written by our network of more tha n 40,000 independent insurance agencies located throughout the United States, including brokerages in New York and California. T hese independent insurance agents and brokers have the ability to place business with Progressive for specified insurance coverages within prescribed underwriting guidelines, subject to compliance with our mandated procedures. The agents and brokers do not have authority to establish underwriting guidelines, develop rates, settle or adjust claims, or enter into other transactions or commitments. The Agency business also writes insurance through strategic alliance business relationships with other insurance companies, financial institutions, and national agencies. The total net premiums written through the Agency channel represented 46% of our Personal Lines volume in 2023, 47% in 2022, and 48% in 2021. The Direct business includes business written directly by us on the Internet, through the Progressive mobile app, and over the phone. The total net premiums written by the Direct business represented 54% of our Personal Lines volume in 2023, 53% in 2022, and 52% in 2021. Our Personal Lines strategy is to be a competitively priced provider of a broad range of personal auto and special lines insurance products with distinctive service, distributed through whichever channel the customer prefers, and bundled with property insurance and other products when appropriate to match our customers needs. Volume potential is driven by our price competitiveness, the actions of our competitors, brand recognition, and quality service delivered through our dedicated employees who embody the Progressive culture, among other factors. See Competitive Factors below for further discussion. We seek to refine our personal auto segmentation, underwriting models, and pricing over time, and we regularly elevate new product models. At any one time, we could have multiple product models in the marketplace, as new versions are rolled out on a state-by-state basis. Such new product models generally introduce new risk variables intended to improve its accuracy of matching rate to risk, increase our competitiveness, or make our products more attractive to specific market segments, among other enhancements. We continue to provide customers in both the Agency and Direct channels the opportunity to improve their auto insurance rates based on their personal driving behavior through Snapshot , our usage-based insurance (UBI) program. We offer Snapshot through our hardware-based and/or mobile-app versions in all states, other than California. We believe this mobile app improves the user experience. In addition to the personal benefits for our customers, the data collected via the mobile app affords us a unique perspective on vehicle operations, accidents, and mobile device usage. Our updated auto product models, discussed above, often also include Snapshot enhancements intended to improve its accuracy and competitiveness and broaden its applicability. Our Personal Lines business is focused on efforts to form deeper and longer-term relationships with our customers through our Destination Era strategy, which supports the pursuit of our vision described above. Through this strategy, we seek to leverage our Property business, as well as insurance and non-insurance products offered by unaffiliated third parties, to provide our customers access to a range of products addressing their diverse needs and, if the customer chooses, to bundle certain of the products together. Bundled products are an integral part of our consumer offerings and an important part of our strategic agenda. Customers who prefer to bundle represent a sizable segment of the insurance market, and our experience is that they tend to stay with us longer and generally have lower claims costs. Our Destination Era strategy involves a number of initiatives, including: In our Agency channel, we offer customers the opportunity to bundle our auto, special lines, and Property offerings. To further drive bundling in the Agency channel, we offer the Platinum program to those select agents who have the appropriate customers for our bundled offering. This program combines our auto and Property insurance with the compensation, coordinated policy periods, single event deductible, and other features that meet the needs and desires that our agents have expressed. As of December 31, 2023, we had nearly 7,500 Platinum agents. We offer independent agents an agency quoting system that makes it easier for them to bundle multiple policies with us. Our Portfolio quoting system reduces data entry, displays all available products eligible for bundled quotes, simplifies the agents experience on third-party comparative rater systems, and provides agents and their customers an overview of premium, bundle savings, and applied discounts to allow them to add or remove products with one click. Portfolio is available for all agents appointed to write new business where we offer Property products. - 2 - In the Direct channel, we bundle Progressive personal auto with our Property products in almost all states, as well as with homeowners and renters products provided by unaffiliated insurance carriers nationwide. We offer these bundles by providing a single destination to which consumers may come for both their auto and property insurance needs. In many cases, we may offer discounts to incentivize or reward this bundling. Where available, our special lines products and umbrella insurance can be combined with any of the personal auto, home, or renters coverages that we offer, in either the Direct or Agency channel. HomeQuote Explorer (HQX) is our multi-carrier, direct-to-consumers online property offering. Through HQX, consumers are able to quickly and easily quote and compare homeowners insurance online from Progressive and other carriers, with the HQX online buy button available in almost every state. As we increase our penetration of the more complex, multi-product customers who are critical to our Destination Era success, we are further expanding the roster of products provided by unaffiliated companies that we make available through online and telephonic referrals and for which we receive commissions, or other compensation, that are reported as service revenues. Our list of unaffiliated company products includes items such as pet health, life, and classic and specialty car insurance. Commercial Lines The Commercial Lines segment writes auto-related liability and physical damage insurance, business-related general liability and property insurance predominately for small businesses, and workers compensation insurance primarily for the transportation industry. We expanded our portfolio of offerings to larger fleet, workers compensation coverage for trucking, along with trucking industry independent contractors, and affinity programs in 2021, when we acquired Protective Insurance Corporation and subsidiaries (Protective Insurance). The Commercial Lines business accounted for 16% of our total net premiums written in 2023, 18% in 2022, and 17% in 2021. Unless otherwise noted, the following auto discussion focuses on our commercial auto business and, therefore, excludes business owners policy (BOP) and workers compensation products, which are discussed below. We offer our commercial auto products in all states. Our commercial auto customers insure approximately two vehicles per policy, excluding large fleet policies. During 2023, we wrote about 90% of our commercial auto business through the agency channel. There are approximately 340 competitors in the total U.S. commercial auto market. We primarily compete with about 55 other large companies/groups, each with over $200 million of commercial auto premiums written annually. Progressive and these leading commercial auto insurers comprise 85% of this market. Progressive ranked number one in the U.S. commercial auto insurance market based on 2022 premiums written. We have been the number one commercial auto insurer since 2015, and we believe that we continued to hold that position for 2023. The Commercial Lines business operates in the following commercial auto business market targets (BMT): Business auto autos, vans, pick-up trucks used by small businesses (e.g., retailing, manufacturing, farming) and for-hire livery (e.g., non-fleet (i.e., five or fewer vehicles) taxis, black-car services, and airport taxis), For-hire transportation tractors, trailers, and straight trucks primarily used by regional general freight and expeditor-type businesses and long-haul operators, Contractor vans, pick-up trucks, and dump trucks used by light contractors (e.g., painters, plumbers, landscapers), and heavy construction, For-hire specialty dump trucks, log trucks, and garbage trucks used by dirt, sand and gravel, logging, garbage/debris removal, and coal-type businesses, and Tow tow trucks and wreckers used in towing services and gas/service station businesses. As with our personal auto products, we regularly introduce new commercial auto product models designed to improve our pricing accuracy and competitiveness through improved segmentation, the use of additional risk variables, and other enhancements. New models are typically rolled out on a state-by-state basis and, as a result, we often have more than one product version in the marketplace at a time. Similar to Snapshot in the personal auto business, the Commercial Lines business offers its commercial auto customers UBI options. Smart Haul is the UBI program that uses driving data from a motor carrier s existing electronic logging device. Smart Haul offers owner operators and small fleets the ability to receive discounts on their insurance by sharing their electronic logging device generated data with us. Snapshot ProView is the UBI program for commercial auto customers without their own electronic logging device. Snapshot ProView allows customers to earn upfront discounts and provides value-added services, like fleet management and personalized tips to encourage safe driving. Both programs are available in almost all states. - 3 - In addition to the BMTs listed above, as of December 31, 2023, we provided commercial auto coverage in the transportation network company (TNC) business to Uber Technologies subsidiaries in 16 states and to Lyft s rideshare operations in 4 states. TNC represented about 13% of our Commercial Lines net premiums written in 2023, 10% in 2022, and 6% in 2021. Premiums written in our TNC business are determined in part by estimating the number of miles to be driven over the life of the policy term, on a policy-by-policy basis. These premium estimates are adjusted monthly based both on actual miles driven and an estimate of miles to be driven during the remaining policy term. During 2023, our TNC business experienced a strong increase in rideshare miles traveled compared to 2022. Our Commercial Lines business also offers business-related general liability and property insurance through our BOP insurance. These products are geared specifically to small businesses and at year-end 2023 were available to agents in 44 states, excluding the District of Columbia, with plans to expand to additional states during 2024. We also offer workers compensation insurance tailored for the transportation industry. Our offering includes loss prevention services that promote safe operations and dedicated claims-handling specialists. This product is available through a limited network of licensed brokers and includes options ranging from guaranteed premium cost plans to loss dependent plans, to meet the varying needs of small to large trucking fleets. We also continue to act as an agent for business customers to place BOP, general liability, professional liability, and workers compensation coverage through unaffiliated insurance carriers and are compensated through commissions, which are reported as service revenues. To further help our direct customers, we offer BusinessQuote Explorer (BQX), a digital application that allows small business owners to obtain quotes for our BOP product and the products offered from a select group of unaffiliated carriers. Property Our Property segment writes residential property and renters insurance in virtually all states, primarily in the independent agency channel and through select agents under our Platinum program discussed above. We also act as a participant in the Write Your Own program for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) under which we write flood insurance in virtually all states; 100% of this business is reinsured with the NFIP. Our Property business accounted for 5% of our total net premiums written in 2023, 2022, and 2021. We tend to see more business written during the second and third quarters of the year based on the cyclical nature of property sales. Losses also tend to be higher during the warmer weather months when storms are more prevalent. As a property insurer, we have exposure to losses from catastrophes, including hurricanes, and other severe weather events. See Item 1A, Risk Factors II. Insurance Risks below for more information. To help mitigate these risks, we enter into reinsurance arrangements. See the Reinsurance section below for further discussion of our reinsurance programs. We specialize in residential property insurance for homeowners, other property owners, and renters, as well as insurance for manufactured homes, personal umbrella insurance, and primary and excess flood insurance. We were the tenth largest homeowners carrier in the U.S., based on 2022 premiums written, and we estimate that we retained this ranking for 2023. There are approximately 365 competitors in the homeowners insurance market nationwide and we compete with many of these companies. Progressive and the other leading 27 large companies/groups, each with over $800 million of premiums written annually, comprise about 80% of the market. As discussed above, our Property business is an important component of our Destination Era strategy. Reinsurance Our reinsurance activity includes both transactions which are regulated and those that are non-regulated. The regulated programs include several mandatory state pools, such as the Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association, Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (FHCF), and North Carolina Reinsurance Facility, as well as the NFIP and other reinsurance facilities required by specific states for various lines of business. In addition, we participated in the Florida Reinsurance to Assist Policyholders Program (RAP) for 2023. All of these programs are governed by the individual state s insurance regulations. Our non-regulated transactions represent voluntary external reinsurance arrangements related to portions of our Property and Commercial Lines businesses; we do not reinsure our Personal Lines business outside of the regulated programs discussed above. Property Programs The reinsurance program in our Property business is designed to reduce overall risk while, to the extent of coverage purchased, protecting capital from the costs associated with catastrophic events. The Property program includes contracts that cover multi-year periods. We also maintain an excess of loss reinsurance treaty covering our personal umbrella business. The occurrence excess of loss program supports the goal of maintaining adequate capital and is comprised of privately placed reinsurance, reinsurance placed through catastrophe bond transactions, and coverage obtained through the FHCF and RAP. - 4 - Under the 2023 occurrence excess of loss reinsurance, we are responsible for the first $200 million of losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) for the first event. We may be responsible for additional losses if we experience more than two such events or if claims incurred exceed the maximum coverage limits of the reinsurance that is then in place. The coverage limits, net of retention, in place at December 31, 2023, were as follows: $2.4 billion for a first event in Florida; and $2.0 billion for a first event outside of Florida. Coverage for a second event (and, potentially, for subsequent covered events) would depend on several factors, including the location and the extent of covered losses of the earlier events in the contract period. Portions of our program include reinstatement limits providing coverage for subsequent events. Some portions of our occurrence program have an obligatory reinstatement of coverage. Reinstatement premiums would have no effect on our results of operations since, per our contracts, we have separate reinsurance to cover these situations. During 2023, no losses were ceded under the occurrence excess of loss program related to storms occurring in 2023. In February 2024, a catastrophe bond matured, overall reducing our maximum coverage limits by $200 million, irrespective of the location of the first event. In addition, from June 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023, we had shared limit coverage in our reinsurance program that provided $125 million of coverage for named storms (hurricanes and tropical storms as designated by the U.S. National Weather Service). This reinsurance arrangement can, depending on the circumstances, provide additional coverage for a significant covered event, or provide coverage for aggregate losses under our occurrence excess of loss retention. During 2023, we ceded no losses under this hurricane season coverage. We have renewed this coverage from June 1, 2024, through December 31, 2024 (i.e., the 2024 hurricane season) for $175 million of coverage. During 2023, our Property business also had an aggregate excess of loss program structure, with the first retention layer threshold ranging from $500 million to $575 million, excluding named tropical storms and hurricanes, and the second retention layer threshold of $600 million, including named tropical storms. The first and second layers provide coverage up to $100 million and $85 million, respectively. During 2023, we exceeded the first layer annual retention threshold by $17.9 million, under this program. Each layer in the 2023 aggregate excess of loss program was subject to a per occurrence deductible ranging from $2 million to $5 million before each loss could be considered for aggregate retention, and each event was subject to a coverage limit ranging from $95 million to $98 million. In addition, any one portion of the aggregate program does not have to be exhausted before the other portions can be applied. In January 2024, the Property business entered into a new aggregate excess of loss program for claims occurring in 2024, with the multiple layers providing for a total coverage amount of $185 million for catastrophe event losses and ALAE. The layers provide coverage, as follows: Coverage Terms (millions) First Layer Second Layer Retention $450.0 to $475.0 $525.0 Total coverage, net of retention $85.0 $100.0 Per occurrence deductible before each loss could be considered for aggregation, dependent on the peril covered $5.0 or $7.5 $20.0 or $25.0 Per event coverage limit, net of the per occurrence deductible, dependent on the peril covered $42.5 or $45.0 $175.0 or $180.0 The first layer of coverage does not provide coverage for named tropical storms or hurricanes, as designated by the U.S. National Weather Service. The second layer includes coverage for named tropical storms or hurricanes as designated by the U.S. National Weather Service, and also includes a secondary coverage part with a retention threshold of $425 million that shares the same $100 million limit mentioned above. The secondary coverage portion only provides coverage for named tropical storms or hurricanes, as designated by the U.S. National Weather Service. Any one portion of the aggregate program does not have to be exhausted before the other portions can be applied. Commercial Lines Programs The reinsurance program in our Commercial Lines business is designed to help manage certain exposures in our commercial auto, TNC, BOP, and workers compensation products. Our Commercial Lines business uses quota-share reinsurance agreements for TNC, and certain workers compensation and BOP product coverages. Under each agreement, we cede a portion of premiums, losses, and, in most cases, loss adjustment expenses (LAE). As part of the Commercial Lines program, we also have excess of loss reinsurance agreements for higher-limit commercial auto liability, and certain BOP and workers compensation product coverages, which reinsure a portion of loss above a retention threshold. The retention threshold for the BOP excess of loss agreement is $2 million, while the retention threshold for the uninsured and underinsured motorist (UM/UIM) commercial auto liability excess of loss agreement is $5 million, for each - 5 - casualty occurrence or each property loss. For the large fleet commercial auto business, we retain the first $2 million, per occurrence, and have a coverage limit, net of retention, of up to $3 million. In addition, for the workers compensation product, we have catastrophe workers compensation coverage up to $74 million per occurrence pursuant to a $20 million maximum one-life sublimit. In general, we retain approximately $1.3 million per occurrence on workers compensation through the use of excess of loss and quota-share reinsurance. For our TNC product, the amounts ceded vary by state. A portion of the quota-share reinsurance contract is written through reinsurers that are owned by the TNC company. Reinsurance recoverables under this arrangement are required by our contracts to be collateralized (i.e., secured by assets held by an independent third party or a letter of credit issued by a commercial bank) at a target of over 100% of the recoverable balance. During 2023, the remaining portion of reinsurance for the TNC product was written by a third-party reinsurer. Program Evaluation We evaluate our reinsurance programs during our renewal discussions, if not more frequently, to ensure they continue to effectively address the company s risk tolerance. We will continue to balance our ability to assume more risk with the availability and costs of various types of reinsurance contracts. See Item 1A, Risk Factors II. Insurance Risks and VI. Credit and Other Financial Risks below and Note 7 Reinsurance in our 2023 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K (the Annual Report) for more information. Claims Our employees handle nearly all of our Personal and Commercial Lines claims from either physical claims offices throughout the United States or through a virtual environment, and are supported by centralized functions at our corporate offices and a nationwide network of nearly 3,600 third-party repair shops. During 2023, we used independent claim adjusters opportunistically in our vehicle businesses to help support our claim employees manage claims inventory and to timely respond to our customers impacted by certain catastrophe events. While not intended to be a significant part of our claims handling model for these businesses, we may use independent adjusters from time to time. For our Property business, we manage claims through a network of independent claim field adjusters and employee claim representatives that manage the overall claims process. As of December 31, 2023, we had about 1,100 claim employees to handle our Property claims; we currently plan to continue to increase our internal claims staff in 2024. Competitive Factors The insurance markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally compete on the basis of price, agent commission rates, consumer brand recognition and confidence, coverages offered and other product features, claims handling, financial stability, customer service, and geographic coverage. Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies in both the agency and direct channels, and by smaller regional insurers. In the agency channel, some of our competitors have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents. With widely available comparative rating services, consumers can easily compare prices among competitors. Many competitors invest heavily in advertising and marketing efforts and/or expanding their online or mobile service offerings. Over the past two decades, these changes have further intensified the competitive nature of the property-casualty insurance markets in which we operate. We rely heavily on technology to operate our business and on extensive data gathering and analysis to segment markets and price accurately according to risk. We have remained competitive by refining our risk measurement and price segmentation skills, closely managing expenses, and achieving operating efficiencies. High-quality customer service, fair and accurate claims adjusting, and strong brand recognition are also important factors in our competitive strategy. Competition in our insurance markets is also affected by the pace of technological developments. An insurer s ability to adapt to change, innovate, develop, and implement new applications and other technologies can affect its competitive position. In addition, our competitive position could be adversely impacted if we, or one of our third-party vendors, experience a cybersecurity attack or inciden