ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business The Progressive insurance organization began business in 1937. The Progressive Corporation, an insurance holding company formed in 1965, currently has insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries and affiliates. Our insurance subsidiaries and affiliates provide personal and commercial auto insurance, personal residential and commercial property insurance, general liability insurance, and other specialty property-casualty insurance and related services. Our auto insurance products protect our customers against losses due to physical damage to their motor vehicles, uninsured and underinsured bodily injury, and liability to others for personal injury or property damage arising out of the use of those vehicles. Our property insurance products protect our customers against losses due to damages to their structure or possessions within the structure, as well as liability for accidents occurring in the structure or on the property. Our non-insurance subsidiaries and affiliates generally support our insurance and investment operations. We operate throughout the United States. The Progressive Corporation ( Progressive ) acquired a controlling interest in ARX Holding Corp. ( ARX ) in 2015, the parent company of insurance subsidiaries and affiliates that comprise the vast majority of our Property segment. Progressive and the other ARX stockholders, including stock option holders, are parties to a stockholders agreement, which addresses the parties respective rights and obligations. Among other provisions, the stockholders agreement allows, and in certain circumstances requires, Progressive to acquire 100% of the outstanding equity of ARX by the second quarter of 2021. In February 2020, however, Progressive and the minority ARX shareholders signed a stock purchase agreement that requires Progressive to acquire the minority stockholders ARX shares, including those to be issued under outstanding stock options. This transaction, which remains subject to normal closing conditions, would bring Progressive s ownership stake to 100% in April 2020, instead of the second quarter 2021 under the stockholders agreement. For additional information, see Note 15 Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest and Note 17 Subsequent Event to our financial statements included in our 2019 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K (the Annual Report ). Until Progressive owns 100% of the outstanding equity of ARX, the interests of the minority stockholders in ARX s income and assets are reflected in our financial statements as noncontrolling interest. Narrative Description of Business Organization Our operations are run by our executive team, which consists of our Chief Executive Officer and the heads of our major business areas that report to the CEO, including a Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Human Resource Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, and Chief Strategy Officer, along with the Presidents of Personal Lines, Commercial Lines, Claims, and Customer Relationship Management. Our Chief Investment Officer reports to our Chief Financial Officer, and the head of our Property business reports to our President of Personal Lines. Our insurance and claims organizations are generally managed on a state-by-state basis due to the nature of insurance, legal and regulatory requirements, and other local factors, and are supplemented by national operations and supported by our corporate functions. State-specific organizations typically report to a regional general manager, who then reports to the applicable group president. In California, we operate a separate agency auto organization with its own management. Personal Lines Our Personal Lines segment writes insurance for personal autos and recreational and other vehicles, which we refer to as our special lines products. This business generally offers more than one program in a single state, with each program targeted to a specific distribution channel, market, or customer group. As of December 31, 2019 , we wrote personal auto insurance in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and we wrote the majority of our special lines products in all 50 states. The Personal Lines business accounted for 83% of total net premiums written in both 2019 and 2018 , and 85% in 2017 . - 1 - The Personal Lines segment consists of personal auto and special lines products. Personal auto insurance represented approximately 94% of our total Personal Lines net premiums written in both 2019 and 2018 , and 93% in 2017 . We ranked third in market share in the U.S. private passenger auto market for 2018 , based on premiums written, and we believe we continued to hold that position for 2019. There are approximately 290 competitors in this market. Progressive and the other leading 16 private passenger auto insurers, each of which writes over $2.5 billion of premiums annually, comprise about 80% of this market. All industry data, including ranking and market share, has been obtained directly from data reported by either SNL Financial or A.M. Best Company, Inc. ( A.M. Best ), or was estimated using A.M. Best data as the primary source. Special lines products, which include insurance for motorcycles, ATVs, RVs, watercraft, snowmobiles, and similar items, represented the remaining Personal Lines net premiums written for 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. Due to the nature of these products, we typically experience higher losses during the warmer weather months. Our competitors are specialty companies and large multi-line insurance carriers. Although industry figures are not available, based on our analysis of this market, we believe that we have been the market share leader for the motorcycle product since 1998 and that we are one of the largest providers of specialty RV and boat insurance. Our Personal Lines products are sold through both the Agency and Direct channels. The Agency business includes business written by our network of more than 35,000 independent insurance agencies located throughout the United States, including brokerages in New York and California. T hese independent insurance agents and brokers have the ability to place business with Progressive for specified insurance coverages within prescribed underwriting guidelines, subject to compliance with our mandated procedures. The agents and brokers do not have authority to establish underwriting guidelines, develop rates, settle or adjust claims, or enter into other transactions or commitments. The Agency business also writes insurance through strategic alliance business relationships with other insurance companies, financial institutions, and national agencies. The total net premiums written through the Agency channel represented 49% of our Personal Lines volume in 2019 , 50% in 2018 , and 51% in 2017 . The Direct business includes business written directly by us on the Internet, through mobile devices, and over the phone. The total net premiums written by the Direct business represented the remaining Personal Lines volume in 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. Our Personal Lines strategy is to be a competitively priced provider of a broad range of personal auto and special lines insurance products with distinctive service, distributed through whichever channel the customer prefers, and combined with property insurance and other products when appropriate to match our customers needs. Volume potential is driven by our price competitiveness, brand recognition, quality service, and the actions of our competitors, among other factors. See Competitive Factors below for further discussion. We seek to refine our personal auto segmentation, underwriting models, and pricing over time. In mid-2019, we introduced our next generation auto product and expect to continue to roll this product out during 2020. This product version has improved the accuracy of matching rate to risk and introduced new risk verification variables that we believe has improved our competitiveness, especially in more preferred segments. We continue to provide customers in both the Agency and Direct channels the opportunity to improve their auto insurance rates based on their personal driving behavior through Snapshot , our usage-based insurance program. We offer Snapshot through our traditional hardware-based version, which is available nationwide except for California and North Carolina due to the regulatory environment, as well as through our mobile-app version, which is available in 42 states and the District of Columbia. This mobile app is intended to improve the user experience while also reducing our monitoring costs. In addition to the personal benefits for our customers, the data collected via the mobile app affords us a unique perspective on mobile device usage, vehicle operations, and accidents. Our next generation auto product model, discussed above, also included Snapshot enhancements to broaden its applicability. Our Personal Lines business is focused on efforts to form deeper and longer-term relationships with our customers through our Destination Era strategy. Through this strategy, we seek to leverage our Property business, as well as insurance and non-insurance products offered by unaffiliated third parties, to provide our customers access to a range of products addressing their diverse needs and, if the customer chooses, to bundle certain of the products together. Bundled products are an integral part of our consumer offerings and an important part of our strategic agenda. Customers who prefer to bundle represent a sizable segment of the insurance market, and our experience is that they tend to stay with us longer and generally have lower claims costs. Our Destination Era strategy involves a number of initiatives, including: - 2 - In our Agency channel, we offer customers the opportunity to bundle our auto and property insurance. To further drive bundling in the Agency channel, we offer the Platinum program to those select agents who have the appropriate customers and who believe our bundled offering is a must have for their agency. This program combines our auto and home insurance with compensation, coordinated policy periods, single event deductible, and other features that meet the needs and desires that our agents have expressed. We currently have just over 3,700 Platinum agents. We offer independent agents an agency quoting system that makes it easier for them to bundle multiple policies with us. Our "Portfolio" quoting system reduces data entry, displays all available products eligible for bundled quotes, simplifies the comparative rater experience, and provides agents and their customers an overview of premium, bundle savings, and applied discounts to allow them to add or remove products with one click. Portfolio is currently available for all agents appointed to write new business in 33 states with plans to roll out to agents countrywide in 2020. In the Direct channel, we bundle Progressive auto with Progressive Home products, as well as with homeowners and renters products provided by unaffiliated insurance carriers. We offer these bundles by providing a single destination to which consumers may come for both their auto and property insurance needs. In many cases, we may offer discounts to incentivize or reward this bundling. HomeQuote Explorer (HQX) is our multi-carrier, direct-to-consumers online property offering. Through HQX, consumers are able to quickly and easily quote and compare homeowners insurance online from Progressive and other carriers. During 2019, we expanded the availability of the online buy button for Progressive Home shoppers and are now active in 14 states, with plans to continue to expand over time. As we increase our penetration of the more complex, multi-product customers who are critical to our Destination Era success, we are further expanding the roster of products provided by unaffiliated companies that we make available through online and telephonic referrals and for which we receive commission or other compensation that are reported as service revenues. During 2019, we added personal loan financing to our existing list of unaffiliated company products that also include auto financing, home security, home warranty, and life, health, and travel insurance. Our special lines products and umbrella insurance can be combined with any of the auto, home, or renters coverages that we offer, in either the Direct or Agency channel. Commercial Lines The Commercial Lines segment writes auto-related primary liability and physical damage insurance, and business-related general liability and property insurance, each predominately for small businesses. This business represented 13% of our total net premiums written in 2019 , 12% in 2018 , and 11% in 2017 . We offer our auto products in 50 states, and do not currently write Commercial Lines products in the District of Columbia. Our Commercial Lines auto customers insure approximately two vehicles on average. Even though we continue to write about 85% of our Commercial Lines business through the agency channel, we are seeing more small business owners purchasing their insurance on a direct basis. There are approximately 330 competitors in the total U.S. commercial auto market. We primarily compete with about 50 other large companies/groups, each with over $200 million of commercial auto premiums written annually. These leading commercial auto insurers comprise about 80% of this market. Our Commercial Lines business ranked number one in the commercial auto insurance market for 2018 based on premiums written, and we believe that we continued to hold that position for 2019. The Commercial Lines business operates in the following commercial auto business market targets: Business auto autos, vans, pick-up trucks used by small businesses, such as retailing, farming, services, and private trucking, and for-hire livery (non-fleet (i.e., five or fewer vehicles) taxis, black-car services, and airport taxis), For-hire transportation tractors, trailers, and straight trucks primarily used by regional general freight and expeditor-type businesses and non-fleet long-haul operators, Contractor vans, pick-up trucks, and dump trucks used by small businesses, such as artisans, heavy construction, and landscapers/snowplowers, For-hire specialty dump trucks, log trucks, and garbage trucks used by dirt, sand and gravel, logging, and coal-type businesses, and Tow tow trucks and wreckers used in towing services and gas/service station businesses. In late 2019, we introduced our next generation commercial auto product and expect to continue to roll this product out through 2020 and beyond. This product version continues to improve our pricing accuracy through segmentation. - 3 - During 2019, we increased our participation in the transportation network company (TNC) business, where we provide commercial auto coverage. We currently provide this coverage to Uber Technologies subsidiaries in 13 states and to Lyft s rideshare operations in 3 states. TNC is a growing and important part of our business and represented about 7% of our Commercial Lines net premiums written for 2019, with profitability that continues to meet our internal expectations. We plan to expand this part of our business where we are able to do so. During 2019, we launched our business owners policy (BOP) insurance, offering general liability and property insurance. This product is geared specifically to small businesses and currently available to agents in eight states, with plans to expand to additional states during the remainder of 2020. We also continue to act as an agent for business customers to place BOP, general liability, professional liability, and workers compensation coverage through unaffiliated insurance carriers and are compensated through commissions, which are reported as service revenues. To further help our direct customers, we offer BusinessQuote Explorer (BQX), a digital application that allows small business owners to obtain quotes for these products from a select group of unaffiliated carriers. We plan to add our BOP product to our BQX platform later in 2020. Similar to Snapshot in the personal auto business, the Commercial Lines business continues to invest in Smart Haul , a usage-based insurance program for motor carriers. Smart Haul allows owner operators to earn discounts for agreeing to share their electronic logging device generated data with us. Smart Haul is currently available in 45 states. Property Our Property segment, which we began reporting in 2015 after we acquired a majority interest in ARX, writes residential property insurance in 44 states and the District of Columbia, and renters insurance in 45 states and the District of Columbia primarily in the independent agency channel, and through select agents under our Platinum program to drive home and auto bundling. We also act as a participant in the Write Your Own program for the National Flood Insurance Program under which we write flood insurance in 44 states and the District of Columbia. Our Property business represented about 4% of our total net premiums written in both 2019 and 2017 , and 5% in 2018 . We tend to see more business written during the second and third quarters of the year based on the cyclical nature of property sales. Losses also tend to be higher during the warmer weather months when storms are more prevalent. As a property insurer, we have exposure to losses from catastrophes, including hurricanes, and other severe storms. To help mitigate these risks, we enter into reinsurance arrangements. See the Reinsurance section below for further discussion of our reinsurance programs. As one of the 15 largest homeowners carriers in the United States, we specialize in property insurance for homes, condos, manufactured homes, and renters, as well as personal umbrella insurance and primary and excess flood insurance. There are approximately 380 competitors in the homeowners insurance market nationwide and we compete with many of these companies. The top 15 carriers comprise about 70% of the market. As discussed above, our Property business is an important component of our Destination Era strategy. - 4 - Service Businesses Our service businesses, which represent less than 1% of our total revenues and do not have a material effect on our overall operations, primarily include: Commercial Automobile Insurance Procedures/Plans (CAIP) We are the only servicing carrier on a nationwide basis for CAIP plans, which are state-supervised plans servicing the involuntary market in 43 states and the District of Columbia. As a service provider, we provide policy issuance and claims adjusting services and collect fee revenue. Reimbursements to us from the CAIP plans are required by state laws and regulations, subject to contractual service standards. Any changes in our participation as a CAIP service provider would not materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Commission-based businesses We act as an agent for other insurance companies. We offer home, condominium, and renters insurance, among other products, written by unaffiliated insurance companies in the continental United States in the direct channel. We also offer our customers the ability to package their commercial auto coverage with other commercial coverages that are written by unaffiliated insurance companies. We receive commissions for the policies written under this program, all of which are used to offset the expenses associated with maintaining this program. Reinsurance We cede a portion of our direct premiums written to regulated reinsurance plans. We participate in several mandatory state pools, including the Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association, Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, and North Carolina Reinsurance Facility. We also act as servicing agent for state-mandated involuntary plans for commercial vehicles (CAIP plans) and as a participant in the Write Your Own program for federally regulated plans for flood (National Flood Insurance Program). All of these programs are governed by insurance regulations. We also have voluntary contractual arrangements that primarily relate to the Property business and to our transportation network company (TNC) business written by our Commercial Lines business. The reinsurance program in our Property business is designed to reduce overall risk while, to the extent of coverage purchased, protecting capital from the costs associated with catastrophes and severe storms. The largest parts of this reinsurance program are excess of loss programs and, for 2019, 2018, and 2017, aggregate stop loss agreements. These reinsurance programs are with unaffiliated reinsurance companies, most of which are rated A or better by A.M. Best. The occurrence excess of loss program supports the goal of maintaining adequate capital while sustaining at least two one-in-one hundred year events in a single contract period. It contains several layers: privately-placed reinsurance, a catastrophe bond, and coverage obtained through the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, among other arrangements. The program includes layers that are purchased for multi-year periods, and layers as to which we have prepaid premiums for reinstatement of coverage after the first covered event to ensure coverage for the second event. Under the current program, we are responsible for all losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) that do not reach the reinsurance threshold of $60 million, and for the first $60 million in losses and ALAE from each event that exceeds the threshold. We may be responsible for additional losses if we experience more than two such events or if claims incurred exceed the maximum limits of the reinsurance coverage that is then in place. Coverage limits for a first event in Florida would be $1.8 billion, while coverage for a first event outside of Florida would be $1.35 billion; coverage for a second event (and, potentially, for subsequent covered events) would depend on a number of factors, including the severity and location of the earlier events in the contract period. We expect that in mid-2020 our retention threshold for this program will increase to at least $70 million and that the maximum coverage limits may also be increased, subject to our ongoing negotiations with reinsurers. We have aggregate stop-loss reinsurance agreements (ASL), which are in effect for accident years 2019, 2018, and 2017, with substantially the same terms. The ASL agreements for 2017 and 2018 cover accident year Property losses and certain ALAE except those from named storms (both hurricanes and tropical storms) and liability claims, for business written by ARX subsidiaries that write Property business. As such, it provides protection for losses and ALAE incurred by our Property business in the ordinary course, including those resulting from other significant severe weather events, such as hail, tornadoes, etc. This agreement provides $200 million of coverage to the extent that the net loss and ALAE ratio for the full accident year exceeds 63%. The ASL reduced the likelihood that we would experience a net underwriting loss for reasons other than named storms and liability claims. The ASL agreement for 2019 accident year losses has substantially the same terms as those discussed above for the 2017 and 2018 agreements with the exception that the 2019 ASL also covers an additional $100 million of retained losses and ALAE from named storms. We did not renew our ASL program for 2020. Instead, we entered into a property catastrophe aggregate excess of loss program in January 2020. This agreement contains two layers, each with a retention threshold of $375 million. The first layer provides $130 million of coverage for catastrophe losses and ALAE, except those from named storms (both hurricanes and tropical - 5 - storms). The second layer provides $60 million of coverage through May 31, 2020, and $70 million for the remainder of the year, for our retained losses and ALAE from both named and non-named storms. The first layer does not have to be exhausted before the second layer can be applied. For example, if we incurred non-named catastrophe losses and ALAE of $350 million and named storm losses of $50 million, we would have no reinsurance coverage under the first layer since the non-named catastrophe losses did not exceed the retention threshold; however, we would recognize a reinsurance recoverable of $25 million under the second layer, representing the amount that our total losses of $400 million ($350 million of non-named and $50 million of named catastrophe losses) exceeded the $375 million retention threshold. For the TNC business written by Commercial Lines, we have quota share reinsurance agreements, under which we cede a portion of premium, losses, and loss adjustment expenses. Some portion of that reinsurance is with captive reinsurers and a portion is with a panel of third-party reinsurers, which are rated A or better by A.M. Best. Cession rates vary by state, with recoverables collateralized at a target of over 100%. Claims We manage our Personal and Commercial Lines claims handling on a companywide basis through approximately 250 stand-alone claims offices and just over 2,500 network shops located throughout the United States. For our Property business, we manage claims adjusting primarily through a network of independent claims field adjusters, while internal claims representatives manage the overall claims process. We currently employ about 370 internal Property claim representatives. During 2020, we plan to increase our internal claims staff. Competitive Factors The insurance markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally compete on the basis of price, agent commission rates, consumer recognition and confidence, coverages offered and other product features, claims handling, financial stability, customer service, and geographic coverage. Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies in both the Agency and Direct channels, and by smaller regional insurers. In the Agency channel, some of our competitors have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents. With widely available comparative rating services, consumers can easily compare prices among competitors. Many competitors invest heavily in advertising and marketing efforts and/or expanding their online or mobile service offerings. Over the past decade, these changes have further intensified the competitive nature of the property-casualty insurance markets in which we operate. We rely heavily on technology to operate our business and on extensive data gathering and analysis to segment markets and price accurately according to risk. We have remained competitive by refining our risk measurement and price segmentation skills, closely managing expenses, and achieving operating efficiencies. High-quality customer service, fair and accurate claims adjusting, and strong brand recognition are also important factors in our competitive strategy. Competition in our insurance markets is also affected by the pace of technological developments. An insurer s ability to adapt to change, innovate, develop, and implement new applications and other technologies can affect its competitive position. In addition, our competitive position could be adversely impacted if we sustain security breaches or other cyber attacks on our systems or are unable to maintain uninterrupted access to our systems, business functions, and the systems of certain third-party providers. See Item 1A, Risk Factors , for more information. In addition, there has been a proliferation of patents related to new ways in which technologies can affect competitive positions in the insurance industry. Some of our competitors have many more patents than we do. Some of the patents we currently hold include a usage-based insurance patent (expiring in 2024), two patents for the system we use for securing e-signature transactions (expiring in 2025), two U.S. patents on the Name Your Price functionality on our website (expiring in 2028), two multi-product quoting patents (expiring in 2032), two patents for our implementation of a mobile insurance platform and architecture (expiring in 2032), a patent on our system of providing customized insurance quotes based on user s price and/or coverage preferences (expiring in 2033), two patents for our loyalty call routing system (expiring in 2033), a patent for a multivariate predictive system that processes usage-based data (expiring in 2035), and two patents for the implementation of a chatbot in online quoting and servicing (expiring in 2038 and 2039). We have a substantial amount of know-how developed from years of experience with usage-based insurance, and from analyzing the data from almost 33 billion driving miles derived from our usage-based devices and our mobile app. We believe this intellectual property provides us with a competitive advantage in the usage-based insurance market. - 6 - State Insurance Licenses Our insurance subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various state insurance authorities. These licenses may be of perpetual duration or renewable periodically, provided the holder continues to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Our licenses govern the kinds of insurance coverages that may be written by our insurance subsidiaries in the issuing state. Such licenses are normally issued only after the filing of an appropriate application and the satisfaction of prescribed criteria. All licenses that are material to our subsidiaries businesses are in good standing. Insurance Regulation Our insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to regulation and supervision by insurance departments of the jurisdictions in which they are do