ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business The Progressive Corporation, an insurance holding company, has insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries and affiliates (reference in this Item to subsidiaries includes affiliates as well). Our insurance subsidiaries provide personal and commercial auto insurance, personal residential and commercial property insurance, workers compensation insurance primarily for the transportation industry, business-related general liability insurance, and other specialty property-casualty insurance and related services. Our non-insurance subsidiaries generally support our insurance and investment operations. We operate throughout the United States. Unless noted, references to "state" throughout this report include the District of Columbia. Description of Business Organization Our executive group oversees the business and corporate groups that support all areas of our organization and consists of the following: Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Personal Lines President Chief Investment Officer Property General Manager Chief Human Resources Officer Commercial Lines President Chief Information Officer Claims President Chief Legal Officer Customer Relationship Chief Marketing Officer Management President Chief Strategy Officer Our insurance and claims organizations are generally managed on a state-by-state basis due to the nature of insurance, legal and regulatory requirements, and other local factors, and are supplemented by national operations and supported by our corporate functions. State-specific organizations typically report to a regional general manager, who then reports to the applicable group president. In California, we operate a separate agency auto organization with its own management. Personal Lines Our Personal Lines segment writes insurance for personal autos and recreational vehicles, which we refer to as our special lines products. This business generally offers more than one program in a single state, with each program targeted to a specific distribution channel, market, or customer group. As of December 31, 2021, we wrote our Personal Lines products in all states, however, our special lines products are not written in the District of Columbia. The Personal Lines business accounted for 78% of our total net premiums written in 2021, 82% in 2020, and 83% in 2019. The Personal Lines segment consists of personal auto and special lines products. Personal auto insurance represented approximately 94% of our total Personal Lines net premiums written in 2021, 2020, and 2019. We ranked third in market share in the U.S. private passenger auto market for 2020, based on premiums written, and we believe we continued to hold that position for 2021. There are approximately 280 competitors in this market. Progressive and the other leading 15 private passenger auto insurers, each of which writes over $2.5 billion of premiums annually, comprise about 83% of this market. All industry data, including ranking and market share, based on premiums written, has been obtained directly from data reported by either SNL Financial or A.M. Best Company, Inc. (A.M. Best), or was estimated using A.M. Best data as the primary source. Special lines products, which include insurance for motorcycles, ATVs, RVs, watercraft, snowmobiles, and similar items, represented the remaining Personal Lines net premiums written for the years mentioned above. Due to the seasonal nature of these products, we typically experience higher losses during the warmer weather months. Our competitors are specialty companies and large multi-line insurance carriers. Although industry figures are not available, based on our analysis of this market, we believe that we have been the market share leader for the motorcycle product since 1998 and that we are one of the largest providers of RV and boat insurance. - 1 - Our Personal Lines products are sold through both the Agency and Direct channels. The Agency business includes business written by our network of more tha n 40,000 independent insurance agencies located throughout the United States, including brokerages in New York and California. T hese independent insurance agents and brokers have the ability to place business with Progressive for specified insurance coverages within prescribed underwriting guidelines, subject to compliance with our mandated procedures. The agents and brokers do not have authority to establish underwriting guidelines, develop rates, settle or adjust claims, or enter into other transactions or commitments. The Agency business also writes insurance through strategic alliance business relationships with other insurance companies, financial institutions, and national agencies. The total net premiums written through the Agency channel represented 48% of our Personal Lines volume in both 2021 and 2020, and 49% in 2019. The Direct business includes business written directly by us on the Internet, through mobile devices, and over the phone. The total net premiums written by the Direct business represented 52% of our Personal Lines volume in both 2021 and 2020, and 51% in 2019. Our Personal Lines strategy is to be a competitively priced provider of a broad range of personal auto and special lines insurance products with distinctive service, distributed through whichever channel the customer prefers, and combined with property insurance and other products when appropriate to match our customers needs. Volume potential is driven by our price competitiveness, brand recognition, quality service, and the actions of our competitors, among other factors. See Competitive Factors below for further discussion. We seek to refine our personal auto segmentation, underwriting models, and pricing over time, and we regularly elevate new product models. At any one time, we could have multiple product models in the marketplace as new versions are being rolled out from state to state. Such new product models generally introduce new risk variables intended to improve the accuracy of matching rate to risk, increase our competitiveness, or make our products more attractive to specific market segments, among other enhancements. We continue to provide customers in both the Agency and Direct channels the opportunity to improve their auto insurance rates based on their personal driving behavior through Snapshot , our usage-based insurance (UBI) program. We offer Snapshot through both our hardware-based and mobile-app versions in nearly all states. This mobile app is intended to improve the user experience while also reducing our monitoring costs. In addition to the personal benefits for our customers, the data collected via the mobile app affords us a unique perspective on mobile device usage, vehicle operations, and accidents. Our updated auto product models, discussed above, often also include Snapshot enhancements to improve its competitiveness and broaden its applicability. Our Personal Lines business is focused on efforts to form deeper and longer-term relationships with our customers through our Destination Era strategy. Through this strategy, we seek to leverage Progressive Home, our Property business, as well as insurance and non-insurance products offered by unaffiliated third parties, to provide our customers access to a range of products addressing their diverse needs and, if the customer chooses, to bundle certain of the products together. Bundled products are an integral part of our consumer offerings and an important part of our strategic agenda. Customers who prefer to bundle represent a sizable segment of the insurance market, and our experience is that they tend to stay with us longer and generally have lower claims costs. Our Destination Era strategy involves a number of initiatives, including: In our Agency channel, we offer customers the opportunity to bundle our auto and Progressive Home offerings. To further drive bundling in the Agency channel, we offer the Platinum program to those select agents who have the appropriate customers for our bundled offering. This program combines our auto and home insurance with compensation, coordinated policy periods, single event deductible, and other features that meet the needs and desires that our agents have expressed. As of December 31, 2021, we had just over 4,100 Platinum agents. We offer independent agents an agency quoting system that makes it easier for them to bundle multiple policies with us. Our Portfolio quoting system reduces data entry, displays all available products eligible for bundled quotes, simplifies the agents experience on third party comparative rater systems, and provides agents and their customers an overview of premium, bundle savings, and applied discounts to allow them to add or remove products with one click. Portfolio is available for all agents appointed to write new business where we offer Progressive Home products. In the Direct channel, we bundle Progressive auto with Progressive Home products in almost all states, as well as with homeowners and renters products provided by unaffiliated insurance carriers nationwide. We offer these bundles by providing a single destination to which consumers may come for both their auto and property insurance needs. In many cases, we may offer discounts to incentivize or reward this bundling. Where available, our special lines products and umbrella insurance can be combined with any of the auto, home, or renters coverages that we offer, in either the Direct or Agency channel. - 2 - HomeQuote Explorer (HQX) is our multi-carrier, direct-to-consumers online property offering. Through HQX, consumers are able to quickly and easily quote and compare homeowners insurance online from Progressive and other carriers. During 2021, we continued to expand the availability of the online buy button via HQX for Progressive Home shoppers, which was active in the majority of states at year-end 2021, with plans to continue to expand over time. As we increase our penetration of the more complex, multi-product customers who are critical to our Destination Era success, we are further expanding the roster of products provided by unaffiliated companies that we make available through online and telephonic referrals and for which we receive commissions, or other compensation, that are reported as service revenues. Our list of unaffiliated company products includes home security, home warranty, personal loans, and health, life, pet, and travel insurance. Commercial Lines The Commercial Lines segment writes auto-related liability and physical damage insurance, workers compensation insurance primarily for the transportation industry, and business-related general liability and property insurance, predominately for small businesses. In June 2021, we acquired Protective Insurance Corporation and subsidiaries (Protective Insurance) to expand our portfolio of offerings to larger fleet, workers compensation coverage for trucking and public transportation fleets, along with trucking industry independent contractors, and affinity programs. Protective Insurance represented 1% of companywide net premiums written and 6% of Commercial Lines net premiums written from the date of acquisition. See Note 17 Acquisition to our financial statements included in our 2021 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K (the Annual Report) for further discussion. The Commercial Lines business accounted for 17% of our total net premiums written in 2021 and 13% in both 2020 and 2019. The following discussion excludes transportation network company (TNC) business, unless otherwise noted. We offer our auto products in all states. Our Commercial Lines auto customers insure approximately two vehicles per policy. During 2021, we wrote about 90% of our Commercial Lines business through the agency channel. There are approximately 340 competitors in the total U.S. commercial auto market. We primarily compete with about 50 other large companies/groups, each with over $200 million of commercial auto premiums written annually. These leading commercial auto insurers comprise about 82% of this market. Our Commercial Lines business ranked number one in the commercial auto insurance market for 2020 based on premiums written, and we believe that we continued to hold that position for 2021. The Commercial Lines business operates in the following commercial auto business market targets: Business auto autos, vans, pick-up trucks used by small businesses, such as retailing, farming, services, and private trucking, and for-hire livery (non-fleet (i.e., five or fewer vehicles) taxis, black-car services, and airport taxis), For-hire transportation tractors, trailers, and straight trucks primarily used by regional general freight and expeditor-type businesses and long-haul operators, Contractor vans, pick-up trucks, and dump trucks used by small businesses, such as artisans, heavy construction, and landscapers/snowplowers, For-hire specialty dump trucks, log trucks, and garbage trucks used by dirt, sand and gravel, logging, and coal-type businesses, and Tow tow trucks and wreckers used in towing services and gas/service station businesses. As with our personal auto products, we regularly introduce new commercial auto product models designed to improve our pricing accuracy and competitiveness through improved segmentation, the use of additional risk variables, and other enhancements. New models are typically rolled out on a state-by-state basis and, as a result, we often have more than one product version in the marketplace at a time. Similar to Snapshot in the personal auto business, the Commercial Lines business offers its customers UBI options. Smart Haul is the UBI program that uses driving data from a motor carrier s existing electronic logging device. Smart Haul offers owner operators and small fleets the ability to receive discounts on their insurance by sharing their electronic logging device generated data with us. Snapshot ProView , which was launched in 2020, is the UBI program for commercial auto customers without their own electronic logging device. Snapshot ProView allows customers to earn upfront discounts and provides value-added services, like fleet management and personalized tips to encourage safe driving. Both programs are available in almost all states. In addition, we provide commercial auto coverage in the TNC business to Uber Technologies subsidiaries in 13 states and to Lyft s rideshare operations in 7 states and in the District of Columbia. TNC represented about 6% of our Commercial Lines net premiums written for 2021 and 4% for 2020. Premiums written in our TNC business are determined in part by estimating the number of miles to be driven over the life of the policy term, on a policy-by-policy basis. These premium estimates are adjusted - 3 - monthly based both on actual miles driven and an estimate of miles to be driven during the remaining policy term. During 2021, our TNC business experienced a strong increase in rideshare miles traveled compared to 2020, when COVID-19 restrictions were in place. See Item 1A, Risk Factors II. Insurance Risks, III. Operating Risks, and VII. Other below for more information. We also offer business-related general liability and property insurance through our business owners policy (BOP) insurance. These products are geared specifically to small businesses and are currently available to agents in a majority of states, excluding the District of Columbia, with plans to expand to additional states during 2022. We also continue to act as an agent for business customers to place BOP, general liability, professional liability, and workers compensation coverage through unaffiliated insurance carriers and are compensated through commissions, which are reported as service revenues. To further help our direct customers, we offer BusinessQuote Explorer (BQX), a digital application that allows small business owners to obtain quotes for our BOP product and the products offered from a select group of unaffiliated carriers. Property Our Property segment writes residential property and renters insurance in virtually all states, primarily in the independent agency channel and through select agents under our Platinum program discussed above. We also act as a participant in the Write Your Own program for the National Flood Insurance Program under which we write flood insurance in virtually all states; 100% of this business is reinsured. Our Property business accounted for 5% of our total net premiums written in both 2021 and 2020, and 4% in 2019. We tend to see more business written during the second and third quarters of the year based on the cyclical nature of property sales. Losses also tend to be higher during the warmer weather months when storms are more prevalent. As a property insurer, we have exposure to losses from catastrophes, including hurricanes, and other severe storms. See Item 1A, Risk Factors II. Insurance Risks and III. Operating Risks below for more information. To help mitigate these risks, we enter into reinsurance arrangements. See the Reinsurance section below for further discussion of our reinsurance programs. As one of the 15 largest homeowners carriers in the United States, we specialize in residential property insurance for homeowners, other property owners, and renters, as well as insurance for manufactured homes, personal umbrella insurance, and primary and excess flood insurance. There are approximately 385 competitors in the homeowners insurance market nationwide and we compete with many of these companies. We primarily compete with about 20 other large companies/groups, each with over $800 million of premiums written annually, which comprise about 72% of the market. As discussed above, our Property business is an important component of our Destination Era strategy. Reinsurance Our reinsurance activity includes both transactions which are regulated and those that are non-regulated (e.g., voluntary). The regulated programs include several mandatory state pools, such as the Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association, Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, and North Carolina Reinsurance Facility, as well as other reinsurance facilities required by specific states for various lines of business. We are also a participant in the Write Your Own program for federally regulated plans for flood (National Flood Insurance Program) and act as servicing agent for state-mandated involuntary plans for commercial vehicles (CAIP plans). Our current CAIP service contract will expire in 2022 and we currently do not intend to renew it. All of these programs are governed by insurance regulations. Our non-regulated arrangements reinsure activities in our Property business and our Commercial Lines business. Property Programs The reinsurance program in our Property business is designed to reduce overall risk while, to the extent of coverage purchased, protecting capital from the costs associated with catastrophic events. The Property program includes contracts that cover multi-year periods. We also maintain an excess of loss reinsurance treaty covering our personal umbrella business. The occurrence excess of loss program supports the goal of maintaining adequate capital and is comprised of privately placed reinsurance, reinsurance placed through catastrophe bond transactions, and coverage obtained through the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund. Under the occurrence excess of loss reinsurance, we are responsible for the first $200 million of losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) from each event. We may be responsible for additional losses if we experience more than two such events or if claims incurred exceed the maximum coverage limits of the reinsurance that is then in place. The coverage limits currently in place are: $2.14 billion for a first event in Florida; $1.70 billion for a first event outside of Florida; and Coverage for a second event (and, potentially, for subsequent covered events) would depend on several factors, including the location and the extent of covered losses of the earlier events in the contract period. Portions of our program include reinstatement limits providing coverage for subsequent events. Some portions of our occurrence program have an obligatory - 4 - reinstatement of coverage. During 2021, we ceded $200 million of losses and ALAE under the occurrence excess of loss reinsurance program, all related to Hurricane Ida. In addition, during the 2021 hurricane season, we added coverage in our reinsurance program that provided $100 million of coverage for named storms (hurricanes and tropical storms that were identified by name according to Property Claims Service (PCS)). This reinsurance arrangement can, depending on the circumstances, provide additional coverage for a significant covered event, or provide coverage for aggregate PCS losses under our occurrence retention. During 2021, we ceded no losses under this hurricane season coverage. We have renewed this coverage for the 2022 hurricane season. During 2021, our Property business also had an aggregate excess of loss program structure, which provided a maximum amount of $225 million of coverage for non-named storms, and in certain cases for named storms, in multiple layers with varying retention thresholds starting at $475 million in the aggregate. Each layer in the aggregate excess of loss program was subject to a per occurrence $2 million deductible before each loss could be considered for aggregate retention, and each event was subject to a $98 million coverage limit. During 2021, no losses were ceded under this aggregate excess of loss agreement related to 2021 accident year storms. In January 2022, the Property business entered into a new aggregate excess of loss program for the 2022 accident year, with the following two layers: The first layer has a retention threshold of $575 million and provides $75 million of coverage for PCS designated catastrophe event losses and ALAE, except those from named storms. The second layer has a retention threshold of $650 million and provides $100 million of coverage for PCS designated catastrophe event losses and ALAE, including coverage for named storms. Similar to the 2021 aggregated excess of loss program, each layer is subject to a per occurrence $2 million deductible before each loss could be considered for aggregate retention, and each event is subject to a $98 million coverage cap. The first layer does not have to be exhausted before the second layer can be applied. Commercial Lines Programs The reinsurance program in our Commercial Lines business is designed to help manage certain exposures in our commercial auto, TNC, BOP, and workers compensation products. Our Commercial Lines business uses quota-share reinsurance agreements for TNC, and certain workers compensation and BOP coverages. Under each agreement, we cede a portion of premiums, losses, and, in most cases, loss adjustment expenses (LAE). As part of the Commercial Lines program, we also have excess of loss reinsurance agreements for higher-limit commercial auto liability, and certain BOP and workers compensation coverages, which reinsures a portion of loss above a retention threshold. The retention threshold for the BOP and Progressive high-limits auto liability excess of loss agreements is $1 million, for each casualty occurrence or each property loss. For the Protective Insurance excess commercial auto business, we retain the first $2 million, per occurrence, and have coverage excess of $2 million up to $5 million. Under the current program, in certain scenarios, our retention could be reduced to $1 million, depending on the accumulation of losses in excess of $1 million. In addition, for the workers compensation product, we have catastrophe workers compensation coverage up to $100 million pursuant to a $20 million maximum any one life sublimit. In general, we retain approximately $1.5 million per occurrence on workers' compensation through the use of excess of loss and quota-share reinsurance. For our TNC product, the amounts ceded vary by state. A portion of the quota-share reinsurance contract is written through reinsurers that are owned by the TNC companies. Reinsurance recoverables under this arrangement are required by our contracts to be collateralized (i.e., secured by assets held by an independent third party or a letter of credit issued by a commercial bank) at a target of over 100% of the recoverable balance. The remaining portion of reinsurance for the TNC product is written by a panel of third-party reinsurers. Program Evaluation We evaluate our reinsurance programs during our renewal discussions, if not more frequently, to ensure they continue to effectively respond to the company s risk tolerance. For example, when we were looking to renew our occurrence excess of loss contract during the second quarter 2021, we learned the rates being charged by reinsurers for such contracts were increasing; however, we did not encounter a lack of availability for this coverage. In conjunction with our capital position and growing balance sheet, we determined that we were able to increase our retention threshold to $200 million, from the prior year $80 million retention. As a result of this decision, the premium costs to us for the renewed annual contract term were about $15 million less than we paid for the prior year. We will continue to balance the company s ability to assume more risk with the availability and costs of various types of reinsurance contracts. See Item 1A, Risk Factors II. Insurance Risks and VI. Credit and Other Financial Risks below and Note 7 Reinsurance in our Annual Report for more information. - 5 - Claims Our employees handle nearly all of our Personal and Commercial Lines claims from either physical claims offices throughout the United States or through a virtual environment, and are supported by centralized functions at our corporate offices and a nationwide network of nearly 2,450 third-party repair shops. During 2021, we began using independent claims adjusters opportunistically in our vehicle businesses to help support our claim employees manage claims inventory, and to timely respond to our customers impacted by Hurricane Ida. We do not intend to use independent adjusters as an ongoing material part of our claims handling model. For our Property business, we manage a majority of our claims through a network of independent claims field adjusters with internal claims representatives managing the overall claims process. As of December 31, 2021, we employed about 530 internal Property claim representatives and about 190 staff field adjusters; we plan to continue to increase our internal claims staff in 2022. Competitive Factors The insurance markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally compete on the basis of price, agent commission rates, consumer recognition and confidence, coverages offered and other product features, claims handling, financial stability, customer service, and geographic coverage. Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies in both the agency and direct channels, and by smaller regional insurers. In the agency channel, some of our competitors have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents. With widely available comparative rating services, consumers can easily compare prices among competitors. Many competitors invest heavily in advertising and marketing efforts and/or expanding their online or mobile service offerings. Over the past decade, these changes have further intensified the competitive nature of the property-casualty insurance markets in which we operate. We rely heavily on technology to operate our business and on extensive data gathering and analysis to segment markets and price accurately according to risk. We have remained competitive by refining our risk measurement and price segmentation skills, closely managing expenses, and achieving operating efficiencies. High-quality customer service, fair and accurate claims adjusting, and strong brand recognition are also important factors in our competitive strategy. Competition in our insurance markets is also affected by the pace of technological developments. An insurer s ability to adapt to change, innovate, develop, and implement new applications and other technologies can affect its competitive position. In addition, our competitive position could be adversely impacted if we sustain security breaches or other cyber attacks on our systems or are unable to maintain uninterrupted access to our systems, business functions, and the systems of certain third-party providers. See Item 1A, Risk Factors II. Insurance Risks, III. Operating Risks, V. Liquidity Risk, and VII. Other below for more information. In addition, there has been a proliferation of patents related to new ways in which technologies can affect competitive positions in the insurance industry. Several of our competitors have many more patents than we do. Some of the patents we currently hold include a usage-based insurance patent (expiring in 2024 or after), two U.S. patents on the Name Your Price functionality on our website (expiring in 2028 or after), three multi-product quoting patents (expiring in 2032 or after), three patents for our implementation of a mobile insurance platform and architecture (expiring in 2032 or after), a patent on our system of providing customized insurance quotes based on a user s price and/or coverage preferences (expiring in 2033 or after), two patents for our loyalty call routing system (expiring in 2033 or after), a patent for a multivariate predictive system that processes usage-based data (expiring in 2035 or after), three patents for the implementation of chatbots in online quoting and servicing (expiring in 2038 or after), a patent for our Commercial Lines b