Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 1C. Information about our Executive Officers 17 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. [Reserved] 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69 Item 9B. Other Information 69 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 69 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Signatures 76 1 Table of Contents PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION FORM 10-K Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2022 PART I ITEM 1 . Business . Parker-Hannifin Corporation is a leading worldwide diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1938. Our principal executive offices are located at 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, telephone (216) 896-3000. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company", "Parker", "we" or "us" refer to Parker-Hannifin Corporation and its subsidiaries, and the term "year" and references to specific years refer to the applicable fiscal year. Our investor relations website address is www.phstock.com . We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing those reports electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on or accessible through our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Board of Directors has adopted a written charter for each of its committees. These charters, as well as our Global Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Independence Standards for Directors, are posted and available on our investor relations website under the Corporate Governance page. Shareholders may request copies of these corporate governance documents, free of charge, by writing to Parker-Hannifin Corporation, 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, Attention: Secretary, or by calling (216) 896-3000. Our manufacturing, service, sales, distribution and administrative facilities are located in 37 states within the United States and in 44 other countries. We sell our products as original and replacement equipment through sales and distribution centers worldwide. We market our products through direct-sales employees, independent distributors and sales representatives. We supply products to approximately 527,000 customers in virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. We have two reporting segments: Diversified Industrial and Aerospace Systems. During 2022, our technologies and systems were used in the products of these two reporting segments. For 2022, the Company's net sales were $15.9 billion. Diversified Industrial Segment products accounted for 84 percent and Aerospace Systems Segment products accounted for 16 percent of those net sales. Markets Our technologies and systems are used across industries and in various applications. The approximately 527,000 customers who purchase Parker products are found in almost every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. No single customer accounted for more than two percent of our total net sales for the year ended June 30, 2022. 2 Table of Contents Diversified Industrial Segment . Our Diversified Industrial Segment sells products to both original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and distributors who serve the replacement markets in manufacturing, packaging, processing, transportation, mobile construction, refrigeration and air conditioning, agricultural and military machinery and equipment industries. The major markets served by our Diversified Industrial Segment are listed below by group: Engineered Materials Group: Aerospace Agriculture Chemical processing Construction Defense Information technology Life sciences Microelectronics Oil gas Power generation Renewable energy Telecommunications Transportation Truck bus Filtration Group: Aerospace defense Agriculture Clean Renewable Energy Construction Food beverage Heating, ventilation air conditioning (HVAC) Industrial plant equipment Life sciences Marine Mining Oil gas Power generation Renewable energy Medium Heavy Duty Truck Water purification Fluid Connectors Group: Aerial lift Agriculture Bulk chemical handling Construction Food beverage Forestry Industrial machinery Life sciences Material handling Mining Oil gas Renewable energy Transportation Instrumentation Group: Air conditioning Alternative fuels Analytical Chemical Food beverage Life sciences Microelectronics Oil gas Refining Refrigeration Transportation Motion Systems Group: Mobile: Agriculture Construction Marine Material handling Military Transportation Truck bus Turf Industrial: Distribution General machinery Machine tool Mining Oil gas Power generation Semiconductor 3 Table of Contents Aerospace Systems Segment . Our Aerospace Systems Segment sells products primarily in the commercial and military aerospace markets to both OEMs and to end users for spares, maintenance, repair and overhaul. The major markets for products of the Aerospace Systems Segment are listed below: Aftermarket services Commercial transport aircraft Engines General business aviation Helicopters Military aircraft Missiles Power generation (industrial gas turbines) Regional transport aircraft Unmanned aerial vehicles Principal Products and Methods of Distribution We offer hundreds of thousands of individual part numbers, and no single product contributed more than one percent to our total net sales for the year ended June 30, 2022. Listed below are some of our principal products. Diversified Industrial Segment . Our Diversified Industrial Segment products consist of a broad range of motion-control and fluid systems and components, which are described below by group: Engineered Materials Group : sealing, shielding, thermal products and systems, adhesives, coatings and noise vibration and harshness solutions, including: Active vibration control systems Bearings dampers Coatings Dynamic seals Elastomeric mounts isolators Elastomeric o-rings Electromagnetic interference shielding Extrusion fabricated seals High-temperature metal seals Homogeneous inserted elastomeric shapes Medical products fabrication assembly Metal plastic composite bonded seals Precision-cut seals Rubber-to-substrate adhesives Specialty chemicals Structural adhesives Thermal management Wireless sensing systems Filtration Group : filters, systems and diagnostics solutions to ensure purity in critical process chemicals and to remove contaminants from fuel, air, oil, water and other liquids and gases, including: Aerospace filters systems Air pollution control dust collection systems filters Compressed air gas treatment solutions Engine fuel, oil, air closed crankcase ventilation filtration systems Filtration purification systems Fluid condition monitoring systems Gas turbine air inlet filters Heating, ventilation air conditioning filters Hydrogen and alternative energy filters Hydraulic lubrication filters systems Industrial analytical gas generators Membrane, fiber, sintered metal filters Natural gas filters Process liquid, air gas filters Sterile air filters Water purification filters systems 4 Table of Contents Fluid Connectors Group : connectors, which control, transmit and contain fluid, including: Ball check valves Diagnostic and sensors Hose couplings Hose crimpers Industrial hose Low pressure fittings adapters Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) hose tubing Quick couplings Elastomeric thermoplastic hose Tube fittings adapters Tubing plastic fittings Instrumentation Group : high quality flow control solutions that are critical to a wide range of applications involving extreme corrosion resistance, temperatures, pressures and precise flow, including: Analytical instruments sample conditioning systems Compressed natural gas dispensers Cryogenic valves Diesel exhaust treatment systems Electronic valves Emissions Filter driers Fluid system control fittings, meters, valves, regulators manifold valves Fluoropolymer chemical delivery fittings, valves pumps High pressure fittings, valves, pumps systems High-purity gas delivery fittings, valves regulators Miniature valves pumps Natural gas on-board fuel systems Pressure regulating valves Refrigeration air conditioning electronic controls monitoring Solenoid valves 5 Table of Contents Motion Systems Group : hydraulic, pneumatic, and electromechanical components and systems for builders and users of mobile and industrial machinery and equipment, including: Hydraulic Actuation: Accumulators Coolers Cylinders Electrohydraulic actuators Helical actuators Rotary actuators Hydraulic Pumps Motors: Drive controlled pumps Electrohydraulic pumps Fan drives Gerotor pumps motors Integrated hydrostatic transmissions Piston pumps motors Power take-offs Screw pumps Vane pumps motors Hydraulic and Electro Hydraulic Systems: Cartridge valves Hydraulic valves Industrial valves Mobile valves Pneumatics: Air preparation (FRL) dryers Grippers IO link controllers Pneumatic cylinders Pneumatic valves Electronics: Clusters Controllers human machine interfaces ("HMI") Drives (AC/DC Servo) Electric actuators positioners Electric motors gearheads Electronic displays HMI IoT Joysticks Sensors Software Diversified Industrial Segment products include standard products, as well as custom products which are engineered and produced to OEM specifications for application to particular end products. Standard and custom products are also used in the replacement of original products. We market our Diversified Industrial Segment products primarily through field sales employees and approximately 17,100 independent distributor locations throughout the world. Beginning July 1, 2022, the Company began the consolidation of the Fluid Connectors and Instrumentation Groups. The newly consolidated group will continue to serve the major markets and offer the principal products provided by the former Fluid Connectors and Instrumentation Groups, as described above. This new group is designed to leverage the strength of Parker's fluid and gas handling, process control and climate control technologies into a single organization that can better address the emerging needs of customers across common end markets and applications. The realignment is expected to bring added growth opportunities and is a further step towards organizational simplification and alignment. Aerospace Systems Segment . Our Aerospace Systems Segment products are used in commercial and military airframe and engine programs and include: Control actuation systems components Engine build-up ducting Engine exhaust nozzles assemblies Engine systems components Fluid conveyance systems components Fluid metering, delivery atomization devices Fuel systems components Fuel tank inerting systems Hydraulic systems components Lubrication components Pilot controls Pneumatic control components Thermal management Wheels brakes 6 Table of Contents We market our Aerospace Systems Segment products through our regional sales organizations, which sell directly to OEMs and end users throughout the world. Competition Parker operates in highly competitive markets and industries. We offer our products over numerous, varied markets through our divisions operating in 45 countries. Our global scope means that we have hundreds of competitors across our various markets and product offerings. Our competitors include U.S. and non-U.S. companies. These competitors and the degree of competition vary widely by product lines, end markets, geographic scope and/or geographic locations. Although each of our segments has numerous competitors, given our market and product breadth, no single competitor competes with the Company with respect to all the products we manufacture and sell. In the Diversified Industrial Segment, Parker competes on the basis of product quality and innovation, customer experience, manufacturing and distribution capability, and price competitiveness. We believe that we are one of the market leaders in most of the major markets for our most significant Diversified Industrial Segment products. We have comprehensive motion and control packages for the broadest systems capabilities. While our primary global competitors include Bosch Rexroth AG, Danaher Corporation, Danfoss A/S, Donaldson Company, Inc., Emerson Climate Technologies, Inc., Emerson/ASCO, Festo AG Co., Freudenberg-NOK, Gates Corporation, IMI/Norgren, SMC Corporation, Swagelok Company, and Trelleborg AB, none of these businesses compete with every group or product in our Diversified Industrial Segment. In the Aerospace Systems Segment, we have developed relationships with key customers based on our advanced technological and engineering capabilities, superior performance in quality, delivery, service, and price competitiveness. This has enabled us to obtain significant original equipment business on new aircraft programs for our systems and components, as well as the follow-on repair and replacement business for these programs. Further, the Aerospace Systems Segment utilizes low-cost manufacturing techniques and best cost region strategies to achieve a lower cost producer status. Although we believe that we are one of the market leaders in most of the major markets for our most significant Aerospace Systems Segment products, primary global competitors for these products include Eaton Corporation plc, Honeywell International, Inc., Moog Inc., Triumph Group, Inc., Senior plc., Raytheon Collins Aerospace, Woodward, Inc. and Safran S.A. We believe that our platform utilizing eight core technologies, which consist of electromechanical, filtration, fluid handling, hydraulics, pneumatics, process control, refrigeration, and sealing and shielding, is a positive factor in our ability to compete effectively with both large and small competitors. For both of our segments, we believe that the following factors also contribute to our ability to compete effectively: decentralized business model; technology breadth and interconnectivity; engineered products with intellectual property; long product life cycles; balanced OEM vs. aftermarket; low capital investment requirements; and great generators and deployers of cash over the cycle. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, Trade Secrets, Licenses We own a number of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses related to our products. We also have exclusive and non-exclusive rights to use patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets owned by others. In addition, patent and trademark applications are pending, although there can be no assurance that further patents and trademarks will be issued. We do not depend on any single patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or license or group of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or licenses to any material extent. Backlog and Seasonal Nature of Business Backlog consists of written firm orders from a customer to deliver products and, in the case of blanket purchase orders, only includes the portion of the order for which a schedule or release date has been agreed to with the customer. The dollar value of backlog is equal to the amount that is expected to be billed to the customer and reported as a sale. Our backlog by business segment for the past two years is included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Our backlog was $7.9 billion at June 30, 2022 and $6.5 billion at June 30, 2021. Approximately 88 percent of our backlog at June 30, 2022 is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding twelve months. Because of the breadth and global scope of our business, our overall business is generally not seasonal in nature. 7 Table of Contents Environmental Regulation Certain of our operations require the use and handling of hazardous materials and, as a result, the Company is subject to United States federal, state, and local laws and regulations as well as non-U.S. laws and regulations designed to protect the environment and regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws impose penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance and liability for response costs, property damage and personal injury resulting from past and current spills, disposals or other releases of, or exposures to, hazardous materials. Among other environmental laws, we are subject to the United States federal "Superfund" law, under which we have been designated as a "potentially responsible party" and may be liable for cleanup costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the United States Environmental Protection Agency s Superfund priority list. As of June 30, 2022, Parker was involved in environmental remediation at various U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturing facilities presently or formerly operated by us and as a "potentially responsible party," along with other companies, at off-site waste disposal facilities and regional sites. We believe that our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and the consequent financial liability to the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations requires continuing management efforts and expenditures by the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations has not had in the past, and, we believe, will not have in the future, a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. Our reserve for environmental matters is discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Government Regulation In addition to the environmental regulations discussed above, we are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign government regulations relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of our products and services in the countries where we conduct business. Compliance with these laws and regulations often requires the dedication of time and effort of our team members, as well as financial resources. Additional information about the impact of government regulations on our business is included in