Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 15 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. [Reserved] 17 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69 Item 9B. Other Information 69 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 69 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Signatures 77 1 Table of Contents PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION FORM 10-K Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 PART I ITEM 1 . Business . Parker-Hannifin Corporation was incorporated in Ohio in 1938. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company", "Parker", "we" or "us" refer to Parker-Hannifin Corporation and its subsidiaries, and the term "year" and references to specific years refer to the applicable fiscal year. Parker is a global leader in motion and control technologies. Leveraging a unique combination of interconnected technologies, we design, manufacture, and provide aftermarket support for highly engineered solutions that create value for customers primarily in aerospace defense, in-plant industrial equipment, transportation, off-highway, energy, and HVAC refrigeration markets around the world. Parker values having a decentralized operating structure that fosters deeper connections with our customers and greater engagement among our team members. To align our operations and achieve our goal of top quartile performance, we deploy our business system, The Win Strategy TM , which establishes goals and strategies for engaged people, customer experience, profitable growth and financial performance. Underpinning this business system is our culture of safety, collaboration, continuous improvement, and team-based problem solving. Together our goals, strategies, and culture help us to fulfill our purpose: Enabling Engineering Breakthroughs that Lead to a Better Tomorrow. We credit the Win Strategy with leading Parker through a period of sustained operational excellence and transformation and believe it is the foundation for achieving our future goals. Our investor relations website address is investors.parker.com . We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing those reports electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on or accessible through our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors has adopted a written charter for each of its committees. These charters, as well as our Global Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Independence Standards for Directors, are posted and available on our investor relations website under the Governance page. Shareholders may request copies of these corporate governance documents, free of charge, by writing to our principal executive offices located at Parker-Hannifin Corporation, 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, Attention: Secretary, or by calling (216) 896-3000. Markets Our interconnected technologies and solutions provide value for customers across our market verticals including aerospace defense, in-plant industrial equipment, transportation, off-highway, energy, and HVAC and refrigeration. We serve several hundred thousand OEM and distribution customer locations. No single customer accounted for more than four percent of our total net sales for the year ended June 30, 2024. Reportable Segments We have two reportable segments: Diversified Industrial and Aerospace Systems. Of the Company's $19.9 billion in net sales for fiscal year 2024, Diversified Industrial Segment products accounted for 73 percent and Aerospace Systems Segment products accounted for 27 percent. Diversified Industrial Segment . Our Diversified Industrial Segment, which is an aggregation of several business units, sells highly engineered differentiated products to both original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and distributors who serve the aftermarket replacement markets. The major market verticals served by our Diversified Industrial Segment are listed below: Aerospace Defense Off-highway In-plant Industrial Equipment Energy Transportation HVAC Refrigeration 2 Table of Contents Aerospace Systems Segment . Our Aerospace Systems Segment sells highly engineered, differentiated airframe and engine components and systems to OEMs and aftermarket parts and maintenance directly to end users primarily in the commercial aerospace and defense market verticals. The major market platforms served by our Aerospace Systems Segment are listed below: Commercial Transport Regional Transport Defense Fixed Wing Helicopters Business Jets Energy Principal Products and Methods of Distribution We offer hundreds of thousands of individual part numbers, and no single product contributed more than one percent to our total net sales for the year ended June 30, 2024. Listed below are some of our principal products. Diversified Industrial Segment . Our Diversified Industrial Segment products consist of a broad range of motion-control systems and components, which are described below: Active Passive Vibration Control High Purity Sealing Coatings High Temperature Sealing Cryogenic Valves Fittings HVAC/R Controls Monitoring Elastomeric, Fabric Reinforced, Metal, Precision Cut Seals Hydrogen Natural Gas Filters Electric Hydraulic Pumps Motors Industrial Air Gas Filtration Electric Hydraulic Valves Miniature Pumps Valves Electromagnetic Interface Shielding Pneumatic Actuators, Regulators Valves Electromechanical Hydraulic Actuators Power Take Offs Electronics, Drives Controllers Process Filtration Solutions Engine Filtration Solutions Rubber to Substrate Adhesives Fluid Condition Monitoring Sensors Diagnostics Fluid Conveyance Hose Tubing Structural Adhesives High Pressure Connectors, Fittings, Valves Regulators Thermal Management High Purity Fittings, Valves Regulators Diversified Industrial Segment products include standard products, as well as custom products which are engineered and produced to OEM specifications for application to particular end products. Standard and custom products are also used in the replacement of original products. We market our Diversified Industrial Segment products primarily through field sales employees and independent distributors located throughout the world. Aerospace Systems Segment . Our Aerospace Systems Segment products are used in commercial and defense airframe and engine programs and include: Avionics Fuel Systems Components Electric Hydraulic Braking Systems Fuel Tank Inerting Systems Electric Power Hydraulic Pumps Motors Electromechanical Actuators Hydraulic Valves Actuators Engine Exhaust Systems Components Pneumatics Fire Detection Suppression Seals Flight Control Systems Sensors Fluid Conveyance Thermal Management We market our Aerospace Systems Segment products through our regional sales organizations, which sell directly to OEMs and end users throughout the world. 3 Table of Contents Competition Parker operates in highly competitive markets and industries. We offer our products over numerous, varied markets through our divisions operating in 43 countries. Our global scope means that we have hundreds of competitors across our various markets and product offerings. Our competitors include U.S. and non-U.S. companies. These competitors and the degree of competition vary widely by product lines, end markets, geographic scope and/or geographic locations. Although each of our segments has numerous competitors, given our market and product breadth, no single competitor competes with the Company with respect to all the products we manufacture and sell. In the Diversified Industrial Segment, Parker competes based on product quality and innovation, customer experience, manufacturing and distribution capability, aftermarket support, and price competitiveness. We believe that we are one of the market leaders in most of the major markets for our most significant Diversified Industrial Segment products. We have comprehensive motion and control technologies allowing us to provide the broadest systems capabilities. While our primary global competitors include Bosch Rexroth AG, Danaher Corporation, Danfoss A/S, Donaldson Company, Inc., Emerson Climate Technologies, Inc., Emerson/ASCO, Festo AG Co., Freudenberg-NOK, Gates Corporation, IMI/Norgren, SMC Corporation, Swagelok Company, and Trelleborg AB, none of these businesses compete with every group or product in our Diversified Industrial Segment. In the Aerospace Systems Segment, we have developed relationships with key customers based on our advanced technological and engineering capabilities, performance in quality, delivery, service, and price competitiveness. This has enabled us to obtain significant original equipment business on new aircraft programs for our systems and components, as well as the follow-on repair and replacement business for these programs. Further, the Aerospace Systems Segment utilizes design and manufacturing techniques as well as best cost region and supply chain management strategies to reduce cost. Although we believe that we are one of the market leaders in most of the major markets for our most significant Aerospace Systems Segment products, primary global competitors for these products include Crane Co., Eaton Corporation plc, Honeywell International, Inc., Moog Inc., RTX Corporation, Safran S.A., Senior plc, Triumph Group, Inc., and Woodward, Inc. Across our two segments, we believe that our broad-based portfolio of core technologies, which consist of hydraulics, pneumatics, electromechanical, filtration, fluid gas handling, process control, engineered materials, and climate control, is a positive factor in our ability to compete effectively with both large and small competitors. We believe that the following factors also contribute to our ability to compete effectively: Our business system, The Win Strategy Technology powerhouse of interconnected solutions Deep partnerships with our customers to develop innovative products Application engineering expertise Global distribution network Decentralized operating structure Patents, Trademarks, Trade Names, Copyrights, Trade Secrets, Licenses We own a number of patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses related to our products. We also have exclusive and non-exclusive rights to use patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and trade secrets owned by others. In addition, patent and trademark applications are pending, although there can be no assurance that further patents and trademarks will be issued. We do not depend on any single patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or license or group of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or licenses to any material extent. Backlog and Seasonal Nature of Business Backlog consists of written firm orders from a customer to deliver products and, in the case of blanket purchase orders, only includes the portion of the order for which a schedule or release date has been agreed to with the customer. The dollar value of backlog is equal to the amount that is expected to be billed to the customer and reported as a sale. Our backlog by business segment for the past two years is included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Our backlog was $10.9 billion at June 30, 2024 and $11.0 billion at June 30, 2023. Approximately 73 percent of our backlog at June 30, 2024 is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding twelve months. Because of the breadth and global scope of our business, our overall business is generally not seasonal in nature. Environmental Regulation Certain of our operations require the use and handling of hazardous materials and, as a result, the Company is subject to United States federal, state, and local laws and regulations as well as non-U.S. laws and regulations designed to protect the 4 Table of Contents environment and regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws impose penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance and liability for response costs, property damage and personal injury resulting from past and current spills, disposals or other releases of, or exposures to, hazardous materials. Among other environmental laws, we are subject to the United States federal "Superfund" law, under which we have been designated as a "potentially responsible party" and may be liable for cleanup costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the United States Environmental Protection Agency s Superfund priority list. As of June 30, 2024, Parker was involved in environmental remediation and litigation at various U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturing facilities presently or formerly operated by us and as a "potentially responsible party," along with other companies, at off-site waste disposal facilities and regional sites. We believe that our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and the consequent financial liability to the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations requires continuing management efforts and expenditures by the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations has not had in the past, and, we believe, will not have in the future, a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. Our reserve for environmental matters is discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Government Regulation In addition to the environmental regulations discussed above, we are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign government regulations relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of our products and services in the countries where we conduct business. Compliance with these laws and regulations often requires the dedication of time and effort of our team members, as well as financial resources. Additional information about the impact of government regulations on our business is included in