Item 1. Business 3 Packaging 4 Paper 7 Corporate and Other 8 Human Capital 8 Regulatory and Environmental Matters 9 Executive Officers of the Registrant 9 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 16 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 19 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Overview 20 Executive Summary 20 Industry and Business Conditions 22 Results of Operations 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources 24 Commitments 26 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 27 Inflation and Other General Cost Increases 27 Regulatory and Environmental Matters 28 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 29 New and Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 30 Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 72 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 72 Item 9B. Other Information 72 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 72 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 73 Item 11. Executive Compensation 73 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 73 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 74 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 74 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 75 Signatures 78 2 PART I Item 1. B USINESS Packaging Corporation of America ( we, us, our, PCA, or the Company ) is the third largest producer of containerboard products and a leading producer of uncoated freesheet (UFS) paper in North America. We operate eight mills and 86 corrugated products plants and related facilities. We are headquartered in Lake Forest, Illinois and operate primarily in the United States. We report in three reportable segments: Packaging, Paper and Corporate and Other. For segment financial information see Note 18, Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Production and Shipments The following table summarizes the Packaging segment's containerboard production and corrugated products shipments and the Paper segment's UFS production. First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Full Year Containerboard Production (thousand tons) 2023 1,086 1,112 1,118 1,213 4,529 2022 1,233 1,256 1,116 961 4,566 2021 1,195 1,193 1,256 1,243 4,887 Corrugated Products Shipments (billion square feet) 2023 14.7 14.9 15.2 15.7 60.5 2022 16.8 16.5 15.4 14.7 63.4 2021 16.4 16.5 16.4 16.4 65.7 UFS Production (thousand tons) 2023 126 116 109 121 472 2022 126 127 123 130 506 2021 145 149 148 130 572 3 Below is a map of our locations: Packa ging Packaging Products Our containerboard mills produce linerboard and corrugating medium, which are papers primarily used in the production of corrugated products. Our corrugated products manufacturing plants produce a wide variety of corrugated packaging products, including conventional shipping containers used to protect and transport manufactured goods, multi-color boxes and displays with strong visual appeal that help to merchandise the packaged product in retail locations, and honeycomb protective packaging. In addition, we are a large producer of packaging for meat, fresh fruit and vegetables, processed food, beverages, and other industrial and consumer products. Our products are sustainable and are produced from renewable raw materials, predominately using energy derived from biogenic fuels in our production processes and are recyclable at end-of-life. During the year ended December 31, 2023, our Packaging segment produced 4.5 million tons of containerboard at our mills. Our corrugated products manufacturing plants sold 60.5 billion square feet (BSF) of corrugated products. The Packaging segment s net sales to third parties totaled $7.1 billion in 2023. 4 Facilities We manufacture containerboard, which includes a variety of performance and specialty grades, at our containerboard mills. Total annual containerboard capacity was approximately 5.1 million tons as of December 31, 2023. We also produce corrugated and protective packaging products at 86 manufacturing locations. The following provides more details of our primary operating facilities: Counce. Our Counce, Tennessee mill produces kraft linerboard on two machines. The mill can produce basis weights from 26 lb. to 90 lb. DeRidder. Our DeRidder, Louisiana mill produces kraft linerboard on its No. 1 machine and kraft linerboard and corrugating medium on its No. 3 machine. The mill can produce linerboard in basis weights of 26 lb. to 69 lb. and medium in basis weights of 23 lb. to 33 lb. Valdosta. Our Valdosta, Georgia mill produces kraft linerboard on one machine. The mill can produce basis weights from 35 lb. to 96 lb. Tomahawk. Our Tomahawk, Wisconsin mill produces corrugating medium on two machines. The mill can produce basis weights from 23 lb. to 47 lb. Filer City. Our Filer City, Michigan mill produces corrugating medium on three machines. The mill can produce basis weights from 20 lb. to 47 lb. Wallula. Our Wallula, Washington mill produces corrugating medium on its No. 2 machine and kraft linerboard and corrugating medium on its No. 3 machine. The mill can produce medium in basis weights from 23 lb. to 33 lb. and linerboard in basis weights from 31 lb. to 52 lb. Jackson. Our Jackson, Alabama mill produces kraft linerboard on its No. 3 machine and kraft linerboard and corrugating medium on its No. 1 machine. The mill can produce linerboard in basis weights from 22 lb. to 34 lb. and medium in basis weights from 23 lb. to 33 lb. Before October 2020, Jackson had historically operated as a UFS paper mill, with its results of operations reported in our Paper segment. Beginning in October 2020, operating results for the Jackson mill are included in both the Packaging and Paper segments. During the fourth quarter of 2020, in order to meet strong packaging demand and maintain appropriate inventory levels, we temporarily began producing linerboard on the No. 3 machine and, in the first quarter of 2021, we announced the discontinuation of producing uncoated freesheet paper grades on the machine and the permanent conversion of the machine to produce linerboard. Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, we began producing corrugating medium on the No. 1 machine. The production of corrugating medium on the No. 1 machine has continued to date, and consequently, the operating results for the Jackson mill are included in the Packaging segment for the periods presented. As of December 31, 2023, we operated 86 corrugated manufacturing and protective packaging operations, a technical and development center, seven regional design centers, a rotogravure printing operation, and a complement of packaging supplies and distribution centers. Of the 86 manufacturing facilities, 58 are combining operations, commonly called corrugated plants, which manufacture corrugated sheets and finished corrugated packaging products, 27 are sheet plants, which procure combined sheets and manufacture finished corrugated packaging products, and one is a corrugated sheet-only manufacturer. Corrugated products plants tend to be located in close proximity to customers to minimize freight costs. Each of our plants serves a market radius of approximately 150 miles. Our sheet plants are generally located in close proximity to our larger corrugated plants, which enables us to offer additional services and converting capabilities such as small volume and quick turnaround items. Major Raw Materials Used Fiber supply. Fiber is the largest raw material cost to manufacture containerboard. We consume both virgin wood fiber and recycled fiber in our containerboard mills, and all of our fiber comes from renewable resources. Our mill system has the capability to shift a portion of its fiber consumption between softwood, hardwood, and recycled sources. All of our mills can utilize virgin wood fiber and all of our mills, other than the Valdosta mill, can utilize some recycled fiber in their containerboard production. Our corrugated manufacturing operations generate recycled fiber as a by-product from the manufacturing process, which is consumed by our mills. In 2023, our usage of recycled fiber, net of internal generation, represents 18% of our containerboard production. 5 We procure wood fiber through leases of cutting rights, long-term supply agreements, and market purchases and believe we have adequate sources of fiber supply for the foreseeable future. As part of our renewable virgin fiber sourcing efforts, we participate in the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), as well as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ), and we are certified under their sourcing and chain of custody standards. These standards are aimed at ensuring the long-term health and conservation of forestry resources. We are committed to sourcing wood fiber through environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable practices and promoting resource and conservation stewardship ethics. Energy supply. Energy at our packaging mills is obtained through self-generated or purchased fuels and electricity. Fuel sources include by-products of the containerboard manufacturing and pulping process (including black liquor and wood waste), natural gas, purchased wood waste, and other purchased fuels. Each of our mills self-generates process steam requirements from by-products (black liquor and wood waste), as well as from the various purchased fuels. The process steam is used throughout the production process and also to generate electricity. In 2023, our packaging mills consumed about 82 million MMBTUs of fuel to produce both steam and electricity. Of the 82 million MMBTUs consumed, about 63% was from mill-generated biogenic fuels that are by-products of our containerboard manufacturing and pulping process and 37% was from purchased fuels. Of the purchased fuels, 71% was from natural gas, 27% was from purchased wood waste and 2% was from other purchased fuels. Chemical supply. We consume various chemicals in the production of containerboard, including caustic soda, starch, sulfuric acid, soda ash, and lime. Most of our chemicals are purchased under contracts, which are bid or negotiated periodically. Sales, Marketing, and Distribution Our corrugated products are sold through our direct sales and marketing organization, independent brokers, and distribution partners. We have sales representatives and a sales manager at most of our corrugated manufacturing operations and also have corporate account managers who serve customer accounts with a national presence. Additionally, our design centers maintain an on-site dedicated graphics sales force. In addition to direct sales and marketing personnel, we utilize new product development engineers and product graphics and design specialists. These individuals are located at both the corrugated plants and the design centers. General marketing support is provided at our corporate headquarters. Our containerboard sales group is responsible for linerboard and corrugating medium order processing and supply to our corrugated plants, to outside domestic customers, and to export customers. These personnel also coordinate and execute all containerboard trade agreements with other containerboard manufacturers. Containerboard produced in our mills is primarily shipped by rail or truck. Our corrugated products are delivered by truck due to proximity of our corrugated manufacturing operations to customers and load size. Our corrugated manufacturing operations typically serve customers within a 150-mile radius. Customers We sell containerboard and corrugated products to approximately 14,000 customers in approximately 30,000 locations. About 70 % of our corrugated products sales are to regional and local accounts, which are broadly diversified across industries and geographic locations. The remaining 30 % of our corrugated products customer base consists primarily of national accounts that have multiple locations and are served by a number of PCA plants. No single customer exceeds 10% of segment sales. The primary end-use markets in the United States for corrugated products are shown below as reported in the 2022 Fibre Box Association annual report: Food, beverages, and agricultural products 42 % Retail and wholesale trade 28 % Paper and other products 10 % Chemical, plastic, and rubber products 10 % Miscellaneous manufacturing 10 % 6 Competition As of December 31, 2023, we were the third largest producer of containerboard products in North America, according to industry sources and our own estimates. According to industry sources, corrugated products are produced by about 400 U.S. companies operating approximately 1,100 plants. The primary basis for competition for most of our packaging products includes quality, service, price, product design, and innovation. Most corrugated products are manufactured to the customer s specifications. Corrugated producers generally sell within a 150-mile radius of their plants and compete with other corrugated producers in their local region. Competition in our corrugated products operations tends to be regional, although we also face competition from competitors with significant national account presence. On a national level, our primary competitors are International Paper, WestRock Company, and Georgia-Pacific LLC. However, with our strategic focus on regional and local accounts, we also compete with many smaller, independent producers. Pap er We are a leading producer of UFS in North America, according to industry sources and our own estimates. We manufacture and sell papers, including both commodity and specialty papers, which may have custom or specialized features such as colors, coatings, high brightness, and recycled content. Our papers consist of communication papers, including cut-size office papers, and printing and converting papers. Our products are sustainable and are produced from renewable raw materials, predominately using energy derived from biogenic fuels in our production processes and are recyclable at end-of-life. Facilities We currently have one paper mill located in International Falls, Minnesota that produces both commodity and specialty papers on two paper machines. The mill has the capacity to produce approximately 500,000 tons annually. Major Raw Materials Used Fiber supply. Fiber is the largest raw material cost in this segment. We consume wood fiber, recycled fiber, and purchased pulp. We purchase wood fiber through contracts and open-market purchase, and we purchase recycled fiber and pulp from third parties pursuant to contractual agreements. As part of our renewable virgin fiber sourcing efforts, we participate in the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), as well as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ), and we are certified under their sourcing and chain of custody standards. These standards are aimed at ensuring the long-term health and conservation of forestry resources. We are committed to sourcing wood fiber through environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable practices and promoting resource and conservation stewardship ethics. Energy supply. We obtain energy through self-generated or purchased fuels and electricity. Fuel sources include by-products of the manufacturing and pulping process (including black liquor and wood waste), natural gas, electricity, and purchased wood waste. The paper mill self-generates process steam requirements from by-products (black liquor and wood waste), as well as from the various purchased fuels. The process steam is used throughout the production process and to generate electricity. In 2023, our paper mill consumed about 11 million MMBTUs of fuel to produce both steam and electricity. Of the 11 million MMBTUs consumed, about 76% was from mill-generated biogenic fuels that are by-products of the manufacturing and pulping process and 24% was from purchased natural gas. Chemical supply. We consume various chemicals in the production of white papers, including starch, precipitated calcium carbonate, caustic soda, and sodium chlorate. Most of our chemicals are purchased under contracts, which are bid or negotiated periodically. Sales, Marketing, and Distribution Our papers are sold primarily through our sales and marketing organization. We ship to customers both directly from our mills and through distribution centers and a network of outside warehouses by rail or truck. This allows us to respond quickly to customer requirements. 7 Customers We have about 40 customers in approximately 150 locations. These customers include office products distributors and retailers, paper merchants, and envelope and other converters. We have established long-term relationships with many of our customers. ODP Corporation ("ODP"), formerly Office Depot, Inc., along with its subsidiaries and affiliates, is our largest customer in the Paper segment. Effective January 1, 2024, we have amended the agreement with ODP in which we will continue to supply commodity and non-commodity office papers through December 31, 2025. If the agreement is not renewed by the parties, ODP's obligation to purchase paper would phase down over a two-year period beginning January 1, 2026. In 2023, our sales revenue to ODP represented 61% of our Paper segment sales revenue and 5% of our consolidated sales revenue. Competition The markets in which our Paper segment competes are large and highly competitive. Commodity grades of UFS paper are globally traded, with numerous worldwide manufacturers, and as a result, these products compete primarily on the basis of price. Our paper manufacturing facility is located in the United States, and although we compete primarily in the domestic market, we do face competition from foreign producers. In 2016, as a result of a case brought by us and other domestic producers before United States international trade authorities, antidumping and countervailing duties at various levels were imposed on producers of uncoated freesheet papers produced in Australia, Brazil, China, Indonesia, and Portugal. These duties remain in effect after sunset review of duty orders by the U.S. International Trade Commission in January 2022. Other factors influencing competition from overseas producers include domestic and foreign demand and foreign currency exchange rates. Our largest competitors include Domtar Corporation, a division of Paper Excellence, and Sylvamo Corporation. We also face competition from foreign producers and smaller North American producers. Although price is the primary basis for competition in most of our paper grades, quality and service are also important competitive determinants. Our papers compete with electronic data transmission, e-readers, electronic document storage alternatives, and paper grades we do not produce. Increasing shifts to these alternatives have had, and are likely to continue to have, an adverse effect on traditional print media and paper usage and lower demand for communication papers. Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other segment includes corporate support staff services and related assets and liabilities. This segment also includes transportation assets such as rail cars and trucks, which we use to transport some of our products to and from our manufacturing sites, and assets related to a 50% owned variable interest entity, Louisiana Timber Procurement Company, L.L.C. (LTP). Hum an Capital PCA s success depends on a highly engaged, results-oriented workforce operating in an entrepreneurial culture. Our primary objective is to place the right people in the right roles and empower them to succeed. Safety is a core value at PCA and we believe that all accidents are preventable and an injury-free environment is achievable. We have implemented a robust occupational health and safety management system to assure accountability throughout the organization for safe work practices. Key components to our system include commitment from management, extensive training of employees, hazard identification and communication and regular safety audits. PCA has, at times, experienced labor shortages and/or higher than historical employee turnover in certain of our facilities. However, PCA has not experienced significant disruptions in its operations and has managed to maintain adequate availability of its workforce and supply of raw materials and services to continue to serve its customers. We have extensive recruiting, training and development programs designed to attract and retain a highly talented workforce aligned with our objectives to relentlessly serve our customers and achieve operational excellence throughout our organization. As demand for qualified personnel is increasing, we are expanding our efforts in these critical areas along with efforts to continue to develop, promote and maintain a diverse workforce with a culture and an environment of respect and inclusion. We believe it is essential to hire and promote diverse candidates and employees in order to bring the best ideas to serve our customers. We have established a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council consisting of leaders throughout our organization to hone our strategy and to create a roadmap for inclusive leadership. We publicly disclose in our annual responsibility report our employee demographics in the form of our annual EEO-1 report. Our responsibility report is available on our website and is not intended to be incorporated by reference herein. 8 PCA regularly conducts employee engagement surveys to measure our employees overall satisfaction as well as gain a better understanding of how to improve our employees work experience. Our last survey, conducted in 2022, had a high level of participation, assuring us that the results were an accurate reflection of the feelings and opinions of our employees. Our employees reaffirmed our strong safety culture, our dedication to being socially and environmentally responsible and responded favorably to questions on diversity, equity and inclusion. Our overall engagement index, which is in line with other U.S. manufacturing companies, is only one benchmark we consider in measuring employee satisfaction. Our commitment to continuous improvement means we use employee feedback to foster progress. Based on our 2022 survey responses, our plants formed action teams to identify and address areas for improvement specific to their location. We remain committed to seeking feedback from our employees as we work together to continue to make PCA a great place to work. Our next employee engagement survey will be conducted as scheduled in the first half of 2024. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 14,900 employees, including 4,300 salaried and 10,600 hourly employees. Approximately 63% of our hourly employees worked pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. The majority of our unionized employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW), the Printing Packaging Production Workers Union (PPPWU), the Association of Western Pulp and Paper Workers (AWPPW), the International Association of Machinists (IAM), and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT). We are currently in negotiations to renew or extend union contracts that have recently expired or are expiring in the near future. During 2023, we experienced no work stoppages, and we believe we have satisfactory labor relations with our employees. Regulatory and Environmenta l Matters A discussion of the financial impact of our compliance with environmental laws is presented under the caption Regulatory and Environmental Matters in Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K. Executive Officers of the Registrant Brief statements setting forth the age at February 29, 2024, the principal occupation, employment during the past five years, the year in which such person first became an officer of PCA, and other information concerning each of our executive officers appears below. Mark W. Kowlzan, 68, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer - Mr. Kowlzan has served as PCA's Chairman since January 2016 and as Chief Executive Officer and a director since July 2010. From 1998 through June 2010, Mr. Kowlzan led the company s containerboard mill system, first as Vice President and General Manager and then as Senior Vice President - Containerboard. From 1996 through 1998, Mr. Kowlzan served in various senior mill-related operating positions with PCA and Tenneco Packaging, including as manager of the Counce linerboard mill. Prior to joining Tenneco Packaging, Mr. Kowlzan spent 15 years at International Paper, a global paper and packaging company, where he held a series of operational and managerial positions within its mill organization. Mr. Kowlzan is a member of the board of American Forest and Paper Association. Charles J. Carter, 64, Executive Vice President - Mill Operations - Mr. Carter has led our mill operations since January 2011. From March 2010 to January 2011, Mr. Carter served as PCA s Director of Papermaking Technology. Prior to joining PCA in 2010, Mr. Carter spent 28 years with various pulp and paper companies in managerial and technical positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Calhoun, Tennessee mill of Abitibi Bowater from 2007 to 2010 and as manager of SP Newsprint s Dublin, Georgia mill from 1999 to 2007. Thomas A. Hassfurther, 68, Executive Vice President - Corrugated Products - Mr. Hassfurther has served as Executive Vice President - Corrugated Products of PCA since September 2009. From February 2005 to September 2009, Mr. Hassfurther served as Senior Vice President - Sales and Marketing, Corrugated Products. Prior to this he held various senior-level management and sales positions at PCA and Tenneco Packaging. Mr. Hassfurther joined the company in 1977. Robert P. Mundy, 62, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - Mr. Mundy has served as our Chief Financial Officer since 2015. He previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Verso Corporation, a leading North American supplier of coated papers to catalog and magazine publishers, from 2006 to June 2015. Verso Corporation filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in January 2016. Prior to that, he worked at International Paper from 1983 to 2006, where he was Director of Finance of the Coated and Supercalendered Papers division from 2002 to 2006, Director of Finance Projects from 2001 to 2002, Controller of Masonite Corporation from 1999 to 2001, and Controller of the Petroleum and Minerals business from 1996 to 1999. He served in various business positions at International Paper from 1983 to 1996. 9 Pamela A. Barnes, 59, Senior Vice President Finance and Controller - Ms. Barnes has served as Senior Vice President Finance and Controller since May 2019. Ms. Barnes previously served as a Vice President in PCA s finance organization from 2012 to 2019. After joining the company in 1992, she has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including serving as PCA s Treasurer since 1999. Before joining PCA, Ms. Barnes worked for Deloitte Touche. Jeff S. Kaser, 58, Senior Vice President Corrugated Products - Mr. Kaser has served as Senior Vice President Corrugated Products since May 2020. Prior to this, he served as a Vice President and Area General Manager in PCA's corrugated products business since 2012, leading PCA s Midwest Area, Mid-Atlantic Area and Pennsylvania Region. Mr. Kaser joined PCA in 1987 and has also held plant positions in sales, sales management and general management. Darla J. Olivier, 54, Senior Vice President Tax, ESG and Government Affairs - Ms. Olivier has led our tax department since 1994 and served as Vice President Tax from October 2010 to January 2022. In January 2022, she was promoted to Senior Vice President Tax, ESG and Government Affairs, and leads our sustainability reporting and government affairs functions. Before joining PCA, Ms. Olivier worked for Coopers Lybrand LLP, Alberto-Culver Company and SPX Corporation. Kent A. Pflederer, 53, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary - Mr. Pflederer has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2013 and has led our legal department since June 2007. Prior to joining PCA, Mr. Pflederer served as Senior Counsel, Corporate and Securities, at Hospira, Inc. from 2004 to 2007 and served in the corporate and securities practice at Mayer Brown, LLP from 1996 to 2004. Bruce A. Ridley, 68, Senior Vice President Environmental Health and Safety and Operational Services - Mr. Ridley has served as Senior Vice President Environmental Health and Safety and Operational Services since May 2019. Mr. Ridley previously served as Vice President of Operations from 2012 to 2019 and at PCA s Tomahawk, Wisconsin containerboard mill as the Operations Manager and Mill Manager from 1999 to 2011. Before joining PCA, he held several positions of increasing responsibility at multiple locations during his 19 years with International Paper and two years with Champion International. Robert A. Schneider, 58, Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer - Mr. Sch