ITEM 1. Business Prologis, Inc. is a self-administered and self-managed REIT and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. through which it holds substantially all of its assets. We operate Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P. as one enterprise and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to Prologis, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Prologis, L.P. We invest in real estate through wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities through which we co-invest with partners and investors. We have a significant ownership in the co-investment ventures, which may be consolidated or unconsolidated based on our level of control of the entity. Prologis, Inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Internal Revenue Code or IRC ). We believe the current organization and method of operation will enable Prologis, Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT. Prologis, L.P. was also formed in 1997. We operate and manage our business on an owned and managed ( O M ) basis and therefore evaluate the operating performance of the properties for our O M portfolio, which includes our consolidated properties and properties owned by our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. We make operating decisions based on our total O M portfolio, as we manage the properties regardless of ownership. We also evaluate our results based on our proportionate economic ownership of each property included in the O M portfolio ( our share ) as it represents the financial results of our share of the O M portfolio. Included in our discussion below are references to funds from operations ( FFO ) and net operating income ( NOI ), neither of which are U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ). See Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a reconciliation of Net Earnings Attributable to Common Stockholders in the Consolidated Statements of Income to our FFO measures and a reconciliation of NOI to Operating Income, the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Our corporate headquarters is located at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111, and our other principal office locations are in Amsterdam, Denver, Luxembourg, Mexico City, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo. Our Internet address is www.prologis.com. All reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website. The common stock of Prologis, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the ticker PLD and is a component of the Standard Poor s ( S P ) 500. THE COMPANY As the global leader in logistics real estate, Prologis has a presence in 19 countries across four continents. We own, manage and develop well-located, high-quality logistics facilities, with a focus on the consumption side of the global supply chain. Our local teams actively manage our portfolio, which encompasses leasing and property management, capital deployment and opportunistic dispositions, generally allowing us to recycle capital to self-fund our development and acquisition activities. The majority of our properties in the United States ( U.S. ) are wholly owned, while our properties outside the U.S. are primarily held in co-investment ventures which has the benefit of mitigating our exposure to foreign currency movements. Our portfolio is focused on the world s most vibrant centers of commerce and our scale allows us to respond to our customers needs for the highest-quality buildings across these locations. As e-commerce increasingly moves to the forefront of the global supply chain, it 3 drives demand for logistics real estate close to the end consumer. Over time, we have invested in properties located withi n infill and urban areas in our largest global markets with immediate access to the consumer population these are our Last Touch facilities. This positioning gives us the unique ability to provide our customers with the right solutions in their supply chains that, in turn , allows them to meet end consumer expectations. As we look to the future of logistics real estate, we strive to innovate through the development of multistory logistics facilities, creating community workforce programs to develop skilled labor, leveraging technology to invest in data driven operational efficiencies and negotiating better pricing on common products and services that our customers need. Our customers turn to us because they know that a strategic relationship with Prologis is a competitive advantage. At December 31, 2019, we owned or had investments in properties, on a wholly-owned basis or through ventures, in the following geographies (dollars in billions, based on gross book value and total expected investment (as defined below) and square feet in millions): On January 8, 2020, our two U.S. co-investment ventures acquired the wholly-owned real estate assets of Industrial Property Trust Inc. ( IPT ) for approximately $4 billion (our investment was approximately $1.6 billion). The portfolio included 236 properties, aggregating 38 million square feet. The portfolio was generally split evenly between the two co-investment ventures. On February 4, 2020, we acquired Liberty Property Trust and Liberty Property Limited Partnership (collectively Liberty ) through a merger transaction which we refer to as the Liberty Transaction and is fully detailed in Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The Liberty portfolio was primarily comprised of logistics real estate assets, including 550 industrial operating properties, aggregating 108 million square feet, which were highly complementary to our U.S. portfolio in terms of product quality, location and growth potential. The portfolio also included development in progress and land for future logistics facilities and office properties. The acquisition expanded our presence in target markets such as Lehigh Valley, Chicago, Houston, Central Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Southern California. The total acquisition price was approximately $13 billion through the issuance of equity based on the value of the Prologis common stock issued using the closing price on February 3, 2020 and the assumption of debt. As a result of the closely aligned portfolios and similar business strategy, we anticipate integrating the IPT and Liberty properties while adding minimal property management expenses and further scaling our operations. Throughout this discussion, we reflect amounts in U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. Included in these amounts are consolidated and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, principally the British pound sterling, euro and Japanese yen that are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated to U.S. dollars. We mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by investing outside the U.S. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiaries and utilizing derivative financial instruments. 4 OPERATING SEGMENTS Our business comprises two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital. Below is information summarizing consolidated activity within our segments over the last three years (in millions): (1) NOI from Real Estate Operations is calculated directly from our Consolidated Financial Statements as Rental Revenues and Development Management and Other Revenues less Rental Expenses and Other Expenses. (2) A developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets our definition of stabilization, which is the earlier of one year after completion or reaching 90% occupancy. Amounts represent our total expected investment ( TEI ), which includes the estimated cost of development, including land, construction and leasing costs. Real Estate Operations Rental. Rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and generally contribute 85% to 90% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations ( FFO ). We collect rent from our customers through long-term operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. We expect to generate long-term internal growth by increasing rents, maintaining high occupancy rates and controlling expenses. The primary driver of our revenue growth will be rolling in-place leases to current market rents, which are increasing in the majority of our markets. We believe our active portfolio management, combined with the skills of our property, leasing, maintenance, capital, energy, sustainability and risk management teams, allow us to maximize NOI across our portfolio. A significant amount of our rental revenue, NOI and cash flows are generated in the U.S. Development. Given the scarcity of modern logistics facilities in urban centers, our development business allows us to build what our customers need. We develop properties to meet these needs, deepen our market presence and refresh our portfolio quality. We believe we have a competitive advantage due to (i) the strategic locations of our land bank (ii) the development expertise of our local teams and (iii) the depth of our customer relationships. Successful development and redevelopment efforts provide significant earnings growth as projects lease up and generate income and increase the net asset value of our Real Estate Operations segment. Based on our current estimates, our consolidated land, including options, has the potential to support the development of $9.4 billion of TEI of new logistics space. Generally, we develop properties in the U.S. for long-term hold and outside the U.S. for contribution to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. Strategic Capital Our strategic capital segment allows us to partner with some of the world s largest institutional investors to grow our business through private capital. We also access capital in this segment through two publicly traded vehicles: Nippon Prologis REIT, Inc. in Japan and FIBRA Prologis in Mexico. We align our interests with those of our partners by holding significant ownership interests in all of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures (ranging from 15% to 50%), which generally allows us to reduce our exposure to foreign currency movements for investments outside the U.S. This segment produces stable, long-term cash flows and generally contributes 10% to 15% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and FFO. We generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, principally through asset and property management services. These revenues are principally earned from open-ended or long-term ventures. We earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, legal and disposition services. In certain ventures, we also have the ability to earn revenues through incentive fees ( promotes or promote revenues ) periodically during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. We plan to profitably grow this business by increasing our assets under management in existing or new ventures. Most of the strategic capital revenues are generated outside the U.S. NOI in this segment is calculated directly from our Consolidated Financial Statements as Strategic Capital Revenues less Strategic Capital Expenses and excludes property-related NOI. 5 FUTURE GROWTH We believe the quality and scale of our global portfolio, the expertise of our team, the depth of our customer relationships and the strength of our balance sheet give us unique competitive advantages to grow revenues, NOI, earnings, FFO and cash flows. (1) General and Administrative ( G A ) Expenses is a line item in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adjusted G A expenses is calculated from our Consolidated Financial Statements as G A Expenses and Strategic Capital Expenses , less expenses under the Prologis Promote Plan ( PPP ) and property-level management expenses for the properties owned by the ventures . Rent Growth. We expect market rents to continue to grow over the next few years, driven by demand for the location and quality of our properties. Due to strong market rent growth over the last several years, our in-place leases have considerable upside potential. We estimate that our leases are more than 15% below current market rent on the basis of our weighted average ownership at December 31, 2019. Therefore, even if market rent growth remains flat, a lease renewal will translate into increased future rental income, on a consolidated basis or through the earnings we recognize from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures based on our ownership. We have experienced positive rent change on rollover (comparing the net effective rent ( NER ) of the new lease to the prior lease for the same space) every quarter since 2013. We expect this trend to continue for several more years due to our current in-place rents being below market coupled with increasing market rents. Value Creation from Development. A successful development and redevelopment program involves maintaining control of well-located and entitled land. We believe that the carrying value of our land bank is below its current fair value. Due to the strategic nature of our land bank and development expertise of our teams, we expect to create value as we build out the land bank. We measure the estimated value of a development project as the margin above our anticipated cost to develop. We calculate the margin by comparing the estimated yield on the investment to capitalization rates from our underwriting models. As properties under development stabilize, we expect to realize the value creation principally through contributions to the unconsolidated co-investment ventures and increases in the NOI of our operating portfolio. Economies of Scale from Growth. We use adjusted G A expenses as a percentage of the O M portfolio to measure and manage our overhead costs. We have the systems and infrastructure in place to grow both our consolidated portfolio and O M portfolio with limited incremental G A expense. We believe we can continue to grow NOI and strategic capital revenues organically and through accretive development and acquisition activity while further reducing G A as a percentage of our investments in real estate. The acquisitions of the Liberty and IPT portfolios are key examples of this where we increased our O M portfolio by $17.0 billion and expect minimal increases to G A expenses. Staying Ahead of What s Next . We are working on initiatives to create value beyond the real estate by reengineering our customers experience, utilizing our scale to streamline our procurement activities and negotiating better pricing on products and services for us and our customers, as well as delivering enhancements to our business through innovation and data analytics. Competition Real estate ownership is highly fragmented, and we therefore face competition from many owners and operators. Competitively priced logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect our operating results. We may face competition regarding our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national operators or developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. Despite the competition we may face, our strategic focus over the years has given us distinct competitive advantages, including the following: a portfolio of properties strategically located in markets characterized by large population densities and growing consumption, typically near large labor pools and extensive transportation infrastructure, including our Last Touch facilities the development of logistics facilities with sustainable design features that will continue to meet customer needs for high-quality buildings 6 established relationships with customers served by our experienced and responsive local and regional teams the ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our focus customers to solve concerns and address their needs through our in-house global customer solutions team an investment across the portfolio in environmental stewardship, social responsibility and governance ( ESG ) practices that enhance asset value while improving sustainability performance proven property management and leasing expertise relationships and successful track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business a strategically located land bank local teams with development expertise and a strong balance sheet and credit ratings, coupled with significant liquidity. Customers Our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users. At December 31, 2019, in our Real Estate Operations segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 2,900 customers occupying 362 million square feet of logistics operating properties. Below are the primary types of goods in our buildings for our consolidated real estate properties at December 31, 2019: (1) NER is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease divided by the lease term to determine the amount of cash rent payments received per year. Amounts derived in a currency other than the U.S. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous year. 7 The following table details our top 25 customers for our consolidated real estate properties at December 31, 2019 (square feet in millions): Top Customers % of NER Total Occupied Square Feet 1. Amazon 5.8 17 2. Home Depot 1.9 7 3. FedEx 1.7 4 4. UPS 1.3 4 5. Geodis 0.9 4 6. XPO Logistics 0.8 3 7. U.S. Government 0.8 1 8. NFI 0.7 2 9. Wal-Mart 0.7 2 10. DHL 0.6 2 Top 10 Customers 15.2 46 11. PepsiCo 0.6 3 12. Office Depot 0.5 2 13. DSV Air and Sea 0.5 2 14. Kimberly-Clark 0.5 3 15. Ingram Micro 0.4 2 16. Kuehne + Nagel 0.4 1 17. APL Logistics 0.4 2 18. Bed Bath Beyond, Inc. 0.4 2 19. Georgia-Pacific 0.4 1 20. Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. 0.3 1 21. C S Wholesale Grocers 0.3 1 22. Anixter International Inc. 0.3 1 23. Essendant 0.3 2 24. International Paper 0.3 1 25. Ford Motor 0.3 1 Top 25 Customers 21.1 71 In our Strategic Capital segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. At December 31, 2019, in our co-investment ventures, we partnered with approximately 132 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. Employees We believe our employees are the most important part of our business. When attracting, developing and retaining talent, we seek individuals who hold varied experiences and viewpoints to create an inclusive and diverse culture and workplace that allows each employee to do their best work and drive our collective success. We focus on leadership development at every level of the organization. We align employees goals with our overall strategic direction to create a clear link between individual efforts and the long-term success of the organization and then provide effective feedback on their performance towards goals to ensure their growth. We believe a commitment to our employees learning and development through training, educational opportunities and mentorship is critical to our ability to continue to innovate. Through performance plans, talent recognition and individual development planning, along with reward packages, we advance our talent pool and create a sustainable and long-term enterprise. The following table summarizes our total number of employees at December 31, 2019: Geographies U.S. (1) 932 Other Americas 139 Europe 398 Asia 243 Total 1,712 (1) This includes employees who were based in the U.S. but also support other geographies. We allocate the employee costs to provide property management and leasing functions to our Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital segments based on the square footage of the respective portfolios. The employee costs to perform only Strategic Capital functions are allocated directly to that segment. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, other than in Brazil, although some employees in Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and as such, benefit from applicable labor agreements. 8 CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our board of directors (the Board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, and other people performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com . In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will be disclosed on our website. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE ( ESG ) The principles of ESG are a natural fit in our business strategy. ESG creates value for our company by strengthening our relationships with our customers, investors, employees and the communities in which we do business delivering a strategic business advantage while positively impacting the environment. We develop modern and efficient building designs with state-of-the-art technology to stay ahead of our customers needs while advancing structural, transportation, and energy requirements. We invest in sustainable design features and practices, such as the addition of solar panels, cool roofs, light emitting diode ( LED ) lighting, electric vehicle charging stations, waste and diversion recycling and xeriscaping, that result in cost-savings and operational efficiency for our customers and reduce energy and water consumption, as well as decrease greenhouse gas emissions across our portfolio and corporate operations. We are committed to social responsibility and strengthening relationships important to our business through customer partnerships, investor outreach, community involvement, labor solutions and inclusion and diversity initiatives, as well as a focus on our employees and our customers employees through health and wellness programs and building design. Through our community workforce initiative, for example, we partner with local community organizations to provide logistics training and help our customers with their labor needs, while benefitting local economies and providing new career opportunities. Our strong governance and oversight allows us to mitigate risk and preserve value, creating a culture of uncompromising integrity through our Board independence and diversity, open communication with our stockholders and a risk management framework that supports our investment and process decisions. The strength of our balance sheet and credit ratings, ability to stay ahead of customer needs, engagement with our employees through ethics and anti-corruption training, along with stockholder outreach ensures the financial, operational and reputational resilience of our organization for the long-term. Our approach is reinforced by our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as described above. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments have revealed an environmental liability, in excess of what was provided for in the underwriting of the acquisition, that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See further discussion in