ITEM 1. Business Prologis, Inc. is a self-administered and self-managed REIT and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. through which it holds substantially all of its assets. We operate Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P. as one enterprise and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to Prologis, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Prologis, L.P. We invest in real estate through wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities through which we co-invest with partners and investors ("co-investment ventures"). We have a significant ownership interest in the co-investment ventures, which are either consolidated or unconsolidated based on our level of control of the entity. Prologis, Inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Internal Revenue Code or IRC ). We believe the current organization and method of operation enable Prologis, Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT. Prologis, L.P. was also formed in 1997. We operate, manage and measure the operating performance of our properties on an owned and managed ( O M ) basis. Our O M portfolio includes our consolidated properties as well as properties owned by our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, which we manage. We make operating decisions based on our total O M portfolio as we manage the properties without regard to their ownership. We also evaluate our results based on our proportionate economic ownership of each property included in the O M portfolio ( our share ). Included in our discussion below are references to funds from operations ( FFO ) and net operating income ( NOI ), neither of which are United States ( U.S. ) generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ). See Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a reconciliation of Net Earnings Attributable to Common Stockholders/Unitholders in the Consolidated Statements of Income to our FFO measures and a reconciliation of NOI to Operating Income in the Consolidated Statements of Income, the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Our corporate headquarters is located at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111, and our other principal office locations are in Amsterdam, Denver, Mexico City, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo. Our Internet address is www.prologis.com. All reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website. The common stock of Prologis, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the ticker PLD and is a component of the Standard Poor s ( S P ) 500. THE COMPANY Prologis is the global leader in logistics real estate with a focus on high-barrier, high-growth markets. We own, manage and develop well-located, high-quality logistics facilities in 19 countries across four continents. Our portfolio focuses on the world s most vibrant centers of commerce and our scale across these locations allows us to better serve our customers diverse logistics requirements. 3 Table of Contents The importance of logistics supply chains has increased dramatically to our customers and the global economy. The long-term trends of e-commerce adoption and supply chain resiliency continue to drive the need for increased warehouse space to store and distribute goods. This demand has translated into meaningful increases in rents and low vacancy. We believe this demand is driven by three primary factors: (i) customer supply chains re-positioning to address the significant shift to e-commerce and heightened service expectations; (ii) overall consumption and household growth; and (iii) our customers desire for more supply chain resiliency. We believe these forces will keep demand strong over the long-term. Our teams actively manage our portfolio by providing comprehensive real estate services, including leasing, property management, development, acquisitions and dispositions. We also invest significant capital into new logistics properties through our development activity and third-party acquisitions. Proceeds from the disposition of properties, generally through the contribution of newly developed properties to our co-investment ventures and the sales of non-strategic properties to third parties, allow us to recycle capital back into our investment activities. While the majority of our properties in the U.S. are wholly owned, we hold a significant ownership interest in properties both in the U.S. and internationally through our investment in the co-investment ventures. Partnering with the world s largest institutional investors through co-investment ventures allows us to expand our investment capacity, enhance and diversify our real estate returns and mitigate our exposure to foreign currency movements. Our scale and customer-focused strategy have compelled us to expand the services we provide. Our 1.2 billion square foot portfolio has provided the foundation upon which we have built a platform of solutions to address challenges that our customers face in global fulfillment today. Through Prologis Essentials, we focus on innovative ways to meet our customers operations and energy and sustainability needs. Our customer experience teams, proprietary technology and strategic partnerships are foundational to all aspects of our Prologis Essentials offerings. These resources allow us to provide our customers with unique and actionable insights and tools to help them make progress on sustainability goals and drive greater efficiency in their operations. Finally, our long-standing dedication to Environmental, Social and Governance ( ESG ) practices creates value for our customers, investors, employees and the communities in which we do business. The principles of ESG are an important aspect of our business strategy that we believe delivers a strategic business advantage. Our Global Presence At December 31, 2023, we owned or had investments in, on a wholly-owned basis or through co-investment ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 1.2 billion square feet across the following geographies: 4 Table of Contents Throughout this discussion, we reflect amounts in the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. Included in these amounts are consolidated and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, principally the British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, euro and Japanese yen that are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated to U.S. dollars. We mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by investing outside the U.S. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in the functional currency of our subsidiaries and utilizing derivative financial instruments. OPERATING SEGMENTS Our business comprises two operating segments: Real Estate (Rental Operations and Development) and Strategic Capital. Below is information summarizing consolidated activity within our segments over the last three years (in millions): (1) NOI from the Real Estate Segment is calculated directly from the Consolidated Financial Statements as Rental Revenues and Development Management and Other Revenues less Rental Expenses and Other Expenses. NOI from the Strategic Capital Segment is calculated directly from the Consolidated Financial Statements as Strategic Capital Revenues less Strategic Capital Expenses. (2) A developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets our definition of stabilization, which is the earlier of when a property that was developed has been completed for one year, is contributed to a co-investment venture following completion or is 90% occupied. Amounts represent our total expected investment ( TEI ) upon stabilization, which includes the estimated cost of development or expansion, including land, construction and leasing costs. Real Estate Segment Rental Operations. Rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and generally contributes 85% to 90% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and FFO. We collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. For leases that commenced during 2023 within the consolidated operating portfolio, the weighted average lease term was 66 months. We expect to generate earnings growth by increasing rents, maintaining high occupancy rates and controlling expenses. The primary driver of our revenue growth will be the rolling of in-place leases to current market rents when leases expire, as discussed further below. We believe our active portfolio management, combined with the skills of our property, leasing, maintenance, energy, sustainability and risk management teams allow us to maximize NOI across our portfolio. Substantially all of our consolidated rental revenue, NOI and cash flows from rental operations are generated in the U.S. Development. Given the scarcity of modern logistics facilities in our target markets, our development business provides the opportunity to build to the evolving requirements of our customers while deepening our market presence. We believe we have a competitive advantage due to (i) the strategic locations of our global land bank and redevelopment sites; (ii) the development expertise of our local teams; (iii) the depth of our customer relationships; (iv) our ability to integrate sustainable design features that provide operational efficiencies for our customers; and (v) our procurement capabilities that allow us to secure high-demand construction materials at lower cost. Successful development and redevelopment efforts provide significant earnings growth as projects are leased, generate income and increase the value of our Real Estate Segment. Generally, we develop properties in the U.S. to hold for the long-term and outside the U.S. for contribution to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. Strategic Capital Segment Through the Strategic Capital Segment we partner with many of the world s largest institutional investors through unconsolidated co-investment ventures. The business is capitalized principally through private and public equity of which 93% is either in perpetual open-ended or long-term ventures and two publicly traded vehicles (Nippon Prologis REIT, Inc. in Japan and FIBRA Prologis in Mexico). We align our interests with our partners by holding significant ownership interests in our nine unconsolidated co-investment ventures (ranging from 15% to 50%). This structure allows us to reduce our exposure to foreign currency movements for investments outside the U.S. 5 Table of Contents This segment produces durable, long-term cash flows and generally contributes 10% to 15% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and FFO, excluding promotes, all while requiring minimal capital other than our investment in the venture. We generate strategic capital revenues or fees from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, principally through asset management and property management services. Asset management fees are primarily driven by the quarterly valuation of the real estate properties owned by the respective ventures. We earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction management, development and disposition services. In certain ventures, we also have the ability to earn revenues through incentive fees ( promotes or promote revenues ) periodically during the life of a venture, upon liquidation of a venture or upon stabilization of individual venture assets based primarily on the total return of the investments over certain financial hurdles . Promote revenues are recognized when earned at the end of the promote period for the specific co-investment ventures. We plan to grow this business and increase revenues by increasing our assets under management in existing or new ventures. The majority of the strategic capital revenues are generated outside the U.S. FUTURE GROWTH We believe that the quality and scale of our portfolio, our ability to build out our land bank and redevelopment sites, our strategic capital business, the depth of our customer relationships and the strength of our balance sheet are differentiators that allow us to drive growth in revenues, NOI, earnings, FFO and cash flows. (1) Net effective rent ("NER") is calculated at the beginning of the lease using estimated total cash base rent to be received over the term and annualized and excludes amortization of fair value lease adjustments from acquisitions. Amounts derived in a currency other than the U.S. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous twelve months. Rent change represents the percentage change in net effective rental rates (average rate over the lease term), on new and renewed leases, commenced during the period compared with previous net effective rental rates in that same space. (2) Included in 2022 and 2023 were significant promotes earned in Europe and the U.S, respectively. We do not have any significant promote opportunities in 2024. Rent Growth. We expect rents in our markets to continue to increase due to demand and low vacancy. Due to strong market rent growth over the last several years, our in-place leases have considerable upside potential to drive future organic NOI growth. This is evident in the positive rent change we have experienced in every quarter since 2013 and was significant to our operating results over the last several years. We estimate that our lease mark-to-market is approximately 57% (on an NER basis), which represents the growth rate from in-place rents to current market rents based on our share of the O M portfolio at December 31, 2023. Therefore, even if there was no additional market rent growth in the future, we expect our lease renewals to translate into significant increases in future rental income. Value Creation from Development. The global nature of our development program provides a wide landscape of opportunities to pursue based on our judgment of market conditions, opportunities and risks. One of the ways in which we create value is through our focus on sourcing well-located land and redevelopment sites through acquisition opportunities, including our innovative approach with Covered Land Plays ("CLP"), which are income producing assets acquired with the intention to redevelop for higher and better use as industrial properties. Based on our current estimates, our consolidated land, including options and CLP, has the potential to support the development of $35.7 billion ($40.0 billion on an O M basis) of TEI of new logistics space. We measure the estimated value creation of a development project as the stabilized value above our TEI. As properties are completed and leased, we expect to realize the value creation principally through gains realized through contributions of these properties to unconsolidated co-investment ventures and increases in the NOI of the consolidated portfolio. Strategic Capital Advantages. The co-investment ventures provide additional capital from third parties that we can use to grow our company, contribute to self-funding our development activities through the sale of newly developed assets to these vehicles and produce substantial fees for our management of the assets. We raise capital to support the long-term growth of the co-investment ventures while maintaining our own substantial investments in these vehicles. At December 31, 2023, the gross book value of the operating portfolio held by our nine unconsolidated co-investment ventures was $53.1 billion across 507 million square feet. 6 Table of Contents (1) G A Expenses is a line item in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adjusted G A expenses is calculated from our Consolidated Financial Statements as G A Expenses and Strategic Capital Expenses , less expenses under the Prologis Promote Plan ( PPP ) and property-level management expenses for the properties owned by the ventures. Balance Sheet Strength. At December 31, 2023, the weighted average remaining maturity of our consolidated debt was 9 years and the weighted average interest rate was 3.0%. Prior to the current rising interest rate environment, we were able to take advantage of lower interest rates through our refinancing activities and substantially addressed our debt maturities until 2026. At December 31, 2023, we had total available liquidity of $6.0 billion. We continue to maintain low leverage as a percentage of our real estate investments and our market capitalization. As a result of our low leverage, available liquidity and investment capacity in the co-investment ventures, we have significant ability to capitalize on opportunistic value-added investments as they arise. Our Scale Drives Efficiency. We have scalable systems and infrastructure in place to grow both our consolidated and O M portfolios with limited incremental G A expense. We use adjusted G A expenses as a percentage of the O M portfolio (based on gross book value) to measure and evaluate the overhead costs associated with the O M portfolio. We believe we can continue to grow NOI and strategic capital revenues organically and through accretive development and acquisition activity while further reducing G A as a percentage of our investments in real estate. As shown in the graph above, the acquisition of Duke Realty Corporation and Duke Realty Limited Partnership (collectively "Duke" or the "Duke Transaction") on October 3, 2022 is an example of this. We increased our O M portfolio significantly in the fourth quarter of 2022 as a result of the acquisition and had minimal increases to G A expenses. Staying Ahead of What s Next . We are focused on creating value beyond real estate by enhancing our customers experience, leveraging our scale in procurement and innovating through data analytics and digitization efforts. This includes investments in early and growth-stage companies that are focused on emerging technologies for the logistics sector. Through Prologis Essentials, we support our customers through service and product offerings, including innovative solutions to operations and energy and sustainability needs that can make our customers decision process easier while progressing on their environmental goals. Competition Real estate ownership is highly fragmented, and we face competition from many owners and operators. Competitively priced logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect our operating results. We face competition regarding our capital deployment activities, including regional, national and global operators and developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. Despite the competition, our global reach and local market knowledge over the years have given us distinct competitive advantages, including the following: a portfolio of properties strategically located in markets characterized by large population densities, growing consumption and high barriers to entry, typically near large labor pools and extensive transportation infrastructure, including our Last Touch facilities; the ability to leverage the organizational scale and structure of our 1.2 billion square foot O M portfolio to provide a single point of contact for our multi-market customers to address their needs through our in-house global Customer Led Solutions Team; services and solutions offered through Prologis Essentials to assist our customers with their operations and energy and sustainability needs and at the same time enhancing the value of our real estate; 7 Table of Contents a strategically located, global land bank and redevelopment sites that have the potential to support the development of $40.0 billion of TEI of new logistics space on an O M basis, including build-to-suit development and redevelopment as industrial properties or other higher use assets; local teams with the expertise, experience and relationships to lease our properties and deploy capital advantageously, supported by our in-house government and community affairs and entitlement teams; development of logistics facilities with sustainable design features that meet customer needs for efficient, high-quality buildings while enabling them to make progress on their own sustainability objectives; relationships and successful track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business that is comprised of 93% perpetual open-ended or long-term ventures and two publicly traded vehicles; a market intelligence team that allows us to track business conditions in real time, proactively pursue market opportunities and disruptions alike, and develop revenue-generating capabilities to strengthen our operational excellence; an investment in technology and talent to support our sustainability objectives, including expanding our efforts around renewable energy; Prologis Ventures, our corporate venture capital group, tracks the leading edge of innovation and technologies within real estate and the supply chain, creating important capabilities that connect Prologis with the C-suites of our customers; and a strong balance sheet and credit ratings, coupled with significant liquidity, borrowing capacity and long-term fixed debt with low rates. Customers At December 31, 2023, in our Real Estate Segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 4,000 customers occupying 634 million square feet of logistics operating properties (6,700 customers occupying 1.2 billion square feet for our O M portfolio). Our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users who operate in various industries, providing diverse goods to consumers throughout the globe. The location of our global portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide our customers with the right real estate solutions for their supply chains that, in turn, allows them to meet end-consumer delivery expectations. We have invested in properties located within infill and urban areas in our largest global markets with same day access (defined as Last Touch ) and next day access (defined as city distribution), to the consumer population. We have also invested in facilities located at key transportation hubs on the edge of these major infill and urban areas and gateway distribution facilities that incorporate access to major sea and intermodal ports. 8 Table of Contents Below are the primary categories of goods in our consolidated real estate properties at December 31, 2023: (1) Primary categories do not sum to 100% as the difference is attributable to customers that do not clearly fall into a single category. Additionally, primary categories are listed in order of the largest percentage of NER for each category type. 9 Table of Contents The following table details our top 25 customers for our consolidated and O M real estate properties at December 31, 2023 (square feet in millions): Consolidated - Real Estate Segment Owned and Managed Top Customers % of NER Total Occupied Square Feet Top Customers % of NER Total Occupied Square Feet 1. Amazon 6.4 34 1. Amazon 5.0 43 2. Home Depot 2.2 15 2. Home Depot 1.5 17 3. FedEx 1.9 8 3. FedEx 1.4 11 4. UPS 1.0 6 4. Geodis 1.3 17 5. Geodis 0.9 6 5. DHL 1.2 13 6. Wal-Mart 0.8 6 6. CEVA Logistics 0.9 13 7. DHL 0.8 4 7. Maersk 0.8 7 8. Wayfair 0.6 6 8. UPS 0.8 9 9. DSV Panalpina 0.6 2 9. GXO 0.8 10 10. NFI Industries 0.6 3 10. DSV Panalpina 0.8 8 Top 10 Customers 15.8 90 Top 10 Customers 14.5 148 11. Pepsi 0.6 3 11. Kuehne + Nagel 0.6 7 12. Maersk 0.5 3 12. Wal-Mart 0.6 7 13. GXO 0.5 4 13. ZOZO 0.4 5 14. U.S. Government 0.5 2 14. DB Schenker 0.4 6 15. Ryder 0.5 2 15. U.S. Government 0.4 3 16. Berkshire Hathaway 0.5 3 16. Wayfair 0.4 6 17. Lululemon 0.4 2 17. Pepsi 0.4 3 18. Samsung 0.4 3 18. Nippon Express 0.4 4 19. OnTrac 0.4 1 19. Cainiao (Alibaba) 0.4 5 20. Kellogg 0.4 3 20. NFI Industries 0.4 3 21. Tesla 0.4 1 21. Samsung 0.4 5 22. CEVA Logistics 0.4 3 22. Ryder 0.3 3 23. Uline 0.4 2 23. Tesla 0.3 2 24. Kuehne + Nagel 0.4 2 24. Logisteed 0.3 4 25. Target 0.3 2 25. Mercado Libre 0.3 4 Top 25 Customers 22.4 126 Top 25 Customers 20.5 215 In our Strategic Capital Segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. At December 31, 2023, we had 154 investors in our private equity ventures, several of which invest in multiple ventures. Our People Our people are the foundation of our business. They implement our strategy and create value for our customers and shareholders. We seek to recruit and retain talented employees with varied experiences and viewpoints. The intent is to create an inclusive and diverse culture where each employee can do their best work and drive our collective success. We are committed to our diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging ( DEIB ) hiring practices. We update our employees on our DEIB strategy and invite their ideas and input. In 2023, we set a goal to achieve two DEIB certifications by 2025: (i) Management Leadership for Tomorrow s Black Equity at Work; and (ii) Management Leadership for Tomorrow s Hispanic Equity at Work. Our CEO is also a signatory to the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion. We conduct annual pay equity analyses that cover women and people of color and aim to address differences in compensation not explained by relevant job factors accordingly. 10 Table of Contents The following charts display diversity by levels of seniority of our workforce at December 31, 2023: (1) Managers include employees with manager, director or vice president titles. Senior leaders include employees with senior vice president or higher titles. We focus on learning and development at every level of the organization. We align employees goals with our overall strategic direction to create a clear link between individual efforts and the long-term success of the company. We communicate at all levels of the organization throughout the year about company goals and strategic initiatives to ensure awareness and alignment. We then provide continual feedback to all employees on their performance towards those goals as well as budget for external learning and stretch opportunities to support their growth. Providing our employees learning and development through training, educational opportunities and mentorship is critical to our ability to continue to innovate. In 2023, more than 1,600 employees completed more than 13,600 hours of company-provided or company-sponsored learning and development training. We provide opportunities for our employees to share their insights and perspectives on our company and their work experience. Our most recent employee engagement survey, completed in September 2023, with a participation rate of 92%, indicated that 88% of Prologis employees are engaged based on their positive response to the questions that comprise our engagement driver index. We strive to cultivate a healthy and safe working environment for our employees. We provide workplace flexibility with accountability as determined by role. For those employees who work on-site, we have protocols in place to help ensure a safe working environment. We continue to attract and retain talent in the industry through competitive compensation, a robust benefit package, pathways to career advancement, talent recognition and individual development planning. The following table summarizes our total number of employees at December 31, 2023: Geographies U.S. (1) 1,538 Other Americas 173 Europe 605 Asia 258 Total 2,574 (1) This includes employees who were based in the U.S. but also support other geographies. Prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, other than in Brazil, France and Spain, and there is a works council in France. CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our board of directors (the Board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, and other people performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com . In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will be disclosed on our website. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE ( ESG ) Our integrated approach to ESG is an important aspect of our business strategy and strengthens our relationships with our customers, investors, employees and the communities in which we do business. As we look toward the future, we have set sustainability goals and objectives that demonstrate our ambition, create accountability and drive alignment with our business strategy. These goals include the 11 Table of Contents utilization of renewable energy sources, along with sustainable development and redevelopment, that create energy savings and reduce our environmental footprint. We have also set goals and objectives to support the communities in which we do business and employ strong governance practices. Environmental We develop modern and efficient buildings with state-of-the-art technology to stay ahead of our customers needs, advance structural, transportation and energy requirements, and make progress on our own sustainab