Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 61 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 61 Item 2. Properties 62 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 63 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 63 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 64 Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 65 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 79 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 81 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 114 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 114 Item 9B. Other Information 114 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 115 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 116 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 116 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 116 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 116 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 116 Item 16 . Form 10-K Summary 118 2 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, can, would, intend, target, goal, outlook, project, contemplate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, future, or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our expectations regarding financial performance and liquidity, including but not limited to our expectations regarding revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, stock-based compensation, our ability to achieve and maintain future profitability, and cash flows; our ability to successfully execute our business and growth strategy; the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity needs; the demand for our platforms in general; our ability to increase our number of customers and revenue generated from customers; our expectations regarding the future contribution margin of our existing and future customers; our expectations regarding our ability to quickly and effectively integrate our platforms for our existing and future customers; our ability to develop new platforms, and enhancements to existing platforms, and bring them to market in a timely manner; our market share, category positions, and market trends, including our ability to grow our business in large government and commercial organizations, including our expectations regarding the impact of Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 ( FASA ); our ability to compete with existing and new competitors in existing and new markets and products; our expectations regarding anticipated technology needs and developments and our ability to address those needs and developments with our platforms; our expectations regarding litigation and legal and regulatory matters; our expectations regarding our ability to meet existing performance obligations and maintain the operability of our products; our expectations regarding the effects of existing and developing laws and regulations, including with respect to taxation, privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, and artificial intelligence ( AI ); our expectations regarding new and evolving markets, such as AI; our ability to develop and protect our brand; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our platforms; our expectations and management of future growth; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties, including our customers, equity method investment partners, and vendors; our expectations regarding our investments in, and enterprise agreements with, various entities, including special purpose acquisition companies and/or other privately-held or publicly-traded entities; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property; our expectations regarding the amount, timing, and manner of any stock repurchases; our expectations regarding our multi-class stock and governance structure and the benefits thereof; our expectations regarding macroeconomic conditions, including global political and economic uncertainty, heightened interest rates, or monetary policy changes; the impacts of catastrophic events, including natural disasters, global pandemics, geopolitical tensions, terrorism, or other events beyond our control, on our and our customers , vendors , and partners respective businesses and the markets in which we and our customers, vendors, and partners operate; 3 Table of Contents the impacts of the volatility and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including an increase in the strength of the United States ( U.S. ) dollar, on the costs of our products outside of the United States and on customer demand; and the increased expenses associated with being a public company. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Moreover, the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, restructurings, joint ventures, partnerships, channel sales relationships, or investments we may make. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We build software that empowers organizations to effectively integrate their data, decisions, and operations at scale. We were founded in 2003 and started building software for the intelligence community in the United States to assist in counterterrorism investigations and operations. We later began working with commercial enterprises, who often faced fundamentally similar challenges in working with data. We have built four principal software platforms, Palantir Gotham ( Gotham ), Palantir Foundry ( Foundry ), Palantir Apollo ( Apollo ), and Palantir Artificial Intelligence Platform ( AIP ). Gotham and Foundry enable institutions to transform massive amounts of information into an integrated data asset that reflects their operations, and AIP leverages the power of our existing machine learning technologies alongside large language models ( LLMs ) directly within Gotham and/or Foundry to help connect AI to enterprise data. For over a decade, Gotham has surfaced insights for global defense agencies, the intelligence community, disaster relief organizations and beyond. And Foundry is becoming a central operating system not only for individual institutions but also for entire industries. Apollo, which we began offering as a commercial solution in 2021, is a cloud-agnostic, single control layer that coordinates ongoing delivery of new features, security updates, and platform configurations, helping to ensure the continuous operation of critical systems. Apollo allows our customers to run their software in virtually any environment. In 2023, we began deploying our newest offering, AIP, which is designed for customers across the commercial and government sectors, enabling them to derive value from recent breakthroughs in artificial intelligence via the combination of our existing 4 Table of Contents software platforms with LLMs. We believe AIP uniquely allows users to connect LLMs and other AI with their data and operations to facilitate decision-making within the legal, ethical, and security constraints that they require. Recent crises and systemic shocks, such as the ongoing Russia-Ukraine and Israel conflicts, have made clear to many of our customers that accommodating the extended timelines ordinarily required to realize results from implementing new software solutions is not a viable option. As a result, customers are increasingly adopting our software, which can be ready in days, over internal software development efforts, which may take months or years. See further discussion in the section titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Macroeconomic Trends . Our Platforms We have built four principal software platforms: Gotham, Foundry, Apollo, and AIP. Our software platforms provide the critical infrastructure needed to integrate our customers data and operations and run their software in virtually any environment. The vertically integrated nature of these platforms allows users of varying technical abilities to collaborate effectively in our platforms. Data engineers can integrate new data sources, analysts can clean and transform data, data scientists can write models, business users can conduct daily workflows, and senior leaders can make critical decisions. With AIP, trusted data from relevant sources can be integrated into business logic, machine-language models, optimizers, and other computations spread across varying environments to power enterprise processes and help drive critical decisions. Customers may bundle these platforms together as a single ecosystem. Data, analyses, decisions, and the metadata around each are secured with fine-grained access controls that propagate from source data to shared analyses. Each platform is comprised of user-facing applications that may be targeted to the specific industries and sectors in which they are used. Despite their differences, Gotham and Foundry both serve as central operating systems for our customers. While they vary in specific functionality, they align in approach. AIP provides an integrated architecture to Gotham and Foundry that can bring AI to every decision. These platforms, backed by Apollo, can be deployed in almost any environment. Similarly, customers can now use Apollo to enable continuous deployment, configuration management, and central software operations management across almost any environment for their own software products. Gotham Gotham enables users to identify patterns hidden deep within datasets, ranging from signals intelligence sources to reports from confidential informants. It also facilitates the hand-off between analysts and operational users, helping operators plan and execute real-world responses to threats that have been identified within the platform. Gotham is now used broadly across government functions, and we also offer Gotham to our commercial customers. Foundry Foundry transforms the ways organizations operate by creating a central operating system for their data. Individual users can integrate and analyze the data they need in one place. The speed with which users can experiment and test new ideas is what makes the software stick. Data projects often fail because the steps and methods used to build data pipelines are difficult to understand and recreate. We built Foundry s backend to solve the root of this problem. The platform s graphical interface does the rest, allowing users to track and trace their pipelines so they know what the rows and columns in their tables represent and why they are there. All of our commercial customers now use it, as do several of our government customers. AIP AIP enables responsible AI-advantage across the enterprise by using primary, core components built to effectively activate LLMs and other AI within any organization. It provides unified access to open-source, self-hosted, and commercial LLMs that can transform structured and unstructured data into LLM-understandable objects and can turn organizations actions and processes into tools for humans and LLM-driven agents. AIP can allow organizations to power operational use of AI and LLMs with interfaces for decision making, feedback, and safe hand-off among AI agents and human operators with wide-spectrum security and audit controls, which allow for granular control over model usage and integrated human review checkpoints throughout the workflows. AIP is designed to be seamlessly bundled with existing Palantir offerings such as the Foundry, Gotham, and Apollo platforms. 5 Table of Contents Apollo We have always prioritized meeting our customers wherever they need us most. We originally built Apollo to enable the continuous delivery of our software wherever our customers are: in the cloud, on-premises, or even more rugged environments. Today, Apollo enables the rapid, secure delivery of our software and updates across our business, and also enables our customers to securely deploy their own software in virtually any environment. Apollo provides a single control layer to coordinate ongoing delivery of new features, security updates, and platform configurations. Our Customers We work with many of the world s leading government and commercial institutions. As of December 31, 2023, we had 497 customers. Our software is currently used across approximately 80 industries around the world. It is applied to a variety of use cases by users across various business functions and levels of organizations, including by utility operations analysts, automotive manufacturing workers, oil and gas technicians and operators, and pharmaceutical researchers in the United States; supply-chain managers in South Korea; assembly workers in France; public health administrators in the United Kingdom and the United States; and special forces personnel and military officials in the United States and abroad. Of the $2.2 billion in revenue that we generated in 2023, 55% came from customers in the government segment, and 45% came from customers in the commercial segment. Our business continues to have a global presence. In 2023, we earned 62% of our revenue from customers in the United States, and 38% from those abroad. The average revenue for our top twenty customers during the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2023 was $54.6 million, and is up from 2022, when the average revenue from our top twenty customers during the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2022 was $49.4 million, demonstrating our expanding relationships with existing customers. Sales and Marketing Our approach to sales and marketing is built around discussions with existing and prospective customers in order to understand the principal challenges our customers face and identify ways in which our software platforms can provide long-term value and results. Beginning in 2023, we introduced AIP bootcamps to the initial stages of our customer acquisition process, which helped to accelerate these discussions and provide an opportunity for our customers to experience our platforms through their own use cases in days. Customer Acquisition Our customer acquisition strategy generally targets large-scale, hard-to-execute opportunities at large government and commercial institutions. The high installation costs, high failure risks, complexity of data environments, and the long sales cycles associated with these opportunities raise the barriers to entry for competition. The larger, more complex, and more technologically demanding the problem, the more likely we are to succeed. Additionally, our focus in the short term remains making our principal software platforms available to an increasingly broad swath of our potential market. We believe that every institution faces challenges that our platforms and products were designed to address. Across both the public and private sectors, there is a history of failures when investing in new technologies. One U.S. military department spent more than $1 billion building an enterprise resource planning system from scratch. The system was never delivered, and the project was terminated. Many of our customers have had similar experiences investing millions even billions of dollars in digital transformation projects, enterprise data warehouses, and digital twin initiatives that never really worked. These failures have made both software buyers and vendors highly risk-averse. Institutions often doubt that any vendor can implement a working solution and are unwilling to invest. On the other hand, smaller technology companies are often unable to compete for complex, large-scale opportunities because installation costs and the risks of failure are too high, and the sales cycles too long. These are precisely the opportunities we target. Rather than reject projects with risky and resource intensive installation requirements, we actively seek them out. There are a number of sales and marketing strategies that have accelerated our ability to acquire customers in recent years: 6 Table of Contents Expansion of Access to Platforms The speed with which our platforms can be deployed has significantly expanded the range of potential customers with which we plan on partnering over the long term. Additionally, during 2023, we introduced AIP bootcamps, which allow us to deliver real workflows on actual customer data in days. We anticipate that our reach among an increasingly broad set of customers, in both the commercial and government sectors, will accelerate moving forward, aided by our AIP bootcamps. Our proximity to a variety of businesses and the industries in which they are operating has enhanced, and is expected to continue enhancing, our own product and business development efforts, as we continue expanding access to our platforms to the broadest possible set of customers. We believe that, as these new partners grow, we will grow with them. Direct Sales Force We have invested and may continue to invest in an account-based sales force to identify and capture new customers and opportunities. We believe that our decision to build our sales force in recent years has resulted in multiple new customers, and the broadening and expansion of our commercial customer base and relationships with leading government agencies around the world. Sector and Industry Operating Systems In addition to supporting individual institutions, our platforms have become central operating systems for entire industries and sectors. We are developing industry operating systems to help companies and government agencies manage operations across their entire organizations. These operating systems allow our software to be distributed at scale to institutions within given industries. We have and are continuing to develop partnerships in the airline, insurance, healthcare, automotive, security and risk management, and government sectors, which we anticipate will have a significant impact on our business moving forward. U.S. Government We continue to believe we are uniquely positioned to provide commercially available software to the U.S. federal government. Our government customers remain a meaningful and resilient source of revenue for our business. We intend to capture an even greater share of U.S. federal government spending on software systems. See the section titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Our Customers for a discussion of the terms of our government contracts. Channel Sales Cloud Partnerships We have entered into, and continue to explore the development of, partnerships for specific industries and sectors by partnering closely with leading providers of public, private, and hybrid cloud services, which have relationships with essentially every major enterprise in the world and have large, existing sales forces. These cloud partnerships emerged as an extension of the large computing requirements for our platforms and the migration towards the cloud as the hosting environment of choice for many customers. The existing footprint of these providers provides us with access to their large customer base and expands our distribution capabilities. We have also continued to explore the establishment of channel sales relationships and similar alliances with public and private organizations, opening a path for us to partner with varying providers, including smaller technology providers. Joint Ventures New Business Partnerships We intend to continue to form joint ventures and new business partnerships, where we believe specific industries or sectors require a partner and additional investment in order to realize the full potential of our platforms. For example, in December 2023, we, through Palantir Technologies Japan KK, entered into a strategic global partnership with Fujitsu Limited through which the parties will incorporate the capabilities of Foundry and AIP as a key element in the data infrastructure for Fujitsu Uvance, a portfolio of global solutions that address business challenges and solve societal issues. Account Growth There are a number of sales and marketing strategies that we use to drive revenue growth at an account. These strategies include (i) creating new ecosystem partnerships to extend the platform beyond the customer s four walls into the operations of its partners and suppliers, (ii) selling additional productized cross-industry software capabilities, and (iii) selling strategic implementations of our software against specific use cases, which deliver competitive differentiation. 7 Table of Contents Our sales and marketing strategies allow us to scale existing customer contracts horizontally to include additional divisions or functions within a single institution and vertically to include additional users and user groups. In tackling the customer s most pressing and challenging problems first, we establish the trust needed to expand platform usage across the full enterprise. Research and Development We believe that in order to fully address the most complex and valuable challenges that our customers face, we must experience and understand their problems firsthand. To do so, we embed with our users. Our research and development function is responsible for the design, development, testing, validation, and refinement of our platforms, and embedding with our users allows us to identify research and development opportunities for our platforms or new products. We focus on innovating and developing new features and modules for our new and existing platforms, including AIP, or new products, and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, usability, and performance of our platforms. By leveraging the tens of thousands of front-line hours across various industries and using emerging technologies, we can better anticipate customer needs and bring new use cases and new applications of services to our existing and potential customers. Our AIP bootcamps have and may continue to provide a forum to experience these new use cases and applications. Many of our current research and development efforts are focused on deploying software, models, and other critical assets at the edge. This includes integrations with complex hardware, operations in disconnected environments, and more. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to broaden our platform capabilities, strengthen our existing platforms and innovate. Privacy and Civil Liberties We are committed to ensuring that our software is as effective as possible while preserving individuals fundamental rights to privacy and civil liberties. We have made deep investments to ensure that safeguarding privacy and civil liberties protections remains central to our software and business practices. Our platforms were built from the start to protect individual privacy and prevent the misuse of information. We are not in the business of collecting, mining, or selling data. We build software platforms that enable our customers to integrate their own data data to which they already have access. The same technology that makes Palantir s software platforms so analytically powerful the ability to construct a model of the real world from countless data points is what allows our customers to monitor and control access to that data and its use. Principles As we build and implement technology to answer questions of increasing significance and complexity, we follow a set of principles that help us ensure we are doing so responsibly, including the consideration of AI ethics and best practices. Systems should incorporate principles of privacy by design. Our goal has always been to eliminate the perceived trade-offs between privacy and utility. To do so, we treat privacy as a first-order concern at every stage of the engineering process and build privacy features as core capabilities in our platforms, seamlessly integrated with analytical and collaboration tools. Decisions that can affect individuals rights to freedom, opportunity, and happiness cannot be left solely to computers. Our customers are using data to inform decisions with significant implications for individuals. Rather than relying on algorithms that inhibit accountability and redress, we build in means for humans to make necessary judgment calls based on their context and intuition. Systems must facilitate accountability and oversight. Effective privacy protection entails multi-layered, overlapping policies and procedures to reassure the protection of fundamental rights. We design our platforms to support these policies with mechanisms that control usage, alert users to data handling requirements, and generate information for those responsible for oversight. Technology is not the answer to every problem. Some decisions carry implications that are too complex or significant to be automated or streamlined, even with a human in the loop. We strive to contextualize major world problems and think critically about whether it s possible to engineer complementary solutions in an ethically responsible way. When the answer is no, we turn the opportunity down. Privacy and civil liberties engineering is an evolving field, and every organization is subject to unique requirements and concerns. The ways in which these principles are realized will differ among products and organizations. But the end goal should be the same: developing and implementing technology with a full understanding of its potential effects on fundamental rights and incorporating technical capabilities that can support responsible data handling policies. 8 Table of Contents Customer Impact Some examples of the ways in which our software facilitates data protection for our customers follow below. Our platforms serve as the central analytics system of a major law enforcement agency in northern Europe. Scandinavia has long been at the forefront of data protection, and our software facilitates effective implementation of its rigorous privacy policies. A financial institution required strong cryptographic guarantees of access control and selective revelation for sensitive client information on a need-to-know basis. Palantir Foundry s integrated obfuscation tool for cryptographic processes provided both IT and data governance teams with the necessary functionality and security assurances to establish privacy and governance safeguards in operational workflows carried out by non-technical users. This service, in conjunction with system-wide advanced encryption at both s