Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 19 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. [Reserved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 78 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 79 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 151 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 151 Item 9B. Other Information 151 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 151 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 151 Item 11. Executive Compensation 154 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 154 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 154 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 154 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 155 Signatures 162 In this report, PMI, we, us and our refers to Philip Morris International Inc. and its subsidiaries. Trademarks and service marks in this report are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Philip Morris International Inc. and are italicized. PART I Item 1. Business. General Development of Business General Philip Morris International Inc. is a Virginia holding company incorporated in 1987. We are a leading international tobacco company, actively delivering a smoke-free future and evolving our portfolio for the long term to include products outside of the tobacco and nicotine sector. Our current product portfolio primarily consists of cigarettes and smoke-free products, which include heat-not-burn, vapor, and oral nicotine products. Since 2008, we have invested $12.5 billion to develop, scientifically substantiate and commercialize innovative smoke-free products for adults who would otherwise continue to smoke, with the goal of completely ending the sale of cigarettes. This investment includes the building of world-class scientific assessment capabilities, notably in the areas of pre-clinical systems toxicology, clinical and behavioral research, as well as post-market studies. In November 2022, we acquired Swedish Match AB ("Swedish Match") a leader in oral nicotine delivery creating a global smoke-free combination led by the companies IQOS and ZYN brands. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") has authorized versions of our IQOS Platform 1 devices and consumables, and Swedish Match's General snus, as Modified Risk Tobacco Products ("MRTPs"). We describe the MRTP orders in more detail in the "Business Environment" section of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . In March 2008, we became a U.S. public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange and subject to the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). In September 2021, we laid the foundation for our long-term growth ambitions beyond nicotine in wellness and healthcare, including the milestone acquisitions of Vectura Group plc and Fertin Pharma A/S, which provide essential capabilities for future product development. Now, through our Vectura Fertin Pharma business, with a strong foundation and significant expertise in life sciences, we aim to expand into wellness and healthcare areas. Through our acquisition of Swedish Match, we acquired a market leader in oral nicotine delivery with a significant presence in the United States market. The Swedish Match acquisition was a key milestone in PMI s transformation to becoming a smoke-free company. Our consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2022, include the results of operations of Swedish Match from November 11, 2022 (acquisition date) to December 31, 2022. The operating results of Swedish Match are included in a separate segment. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we also completed an agreement with Altria Group, Inc. to end our commercial relationship in the U.S. covering IQOS as of April 30, 2024. Thereafter, PMI will have the full rights to commercialize IQOS in the U.S. For further details of our 2021 and 2022 acquisitions, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions and Note 13. Segment Reporting , and for additional details concerning the agreement with Altria, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Operating Results by Business Segment - Business Environment. Smoke-free products ("SFPs") is the term we primarily use to refer to all of our products that are not combustible tobacco products, such as heat-not-burn, e-vapor, and oral nicotine. In addition, SFPs include wellness and healthcare products, as well as consumer accessories such as lighters and matches. Reduced-risk products ("RRPs") is the term we use to refer to products that present, are likely to present, or have the potential to present less risk of harm to smokers who switch to these products versus continuing to smoke. We have a range of RRPs in various stages of development, scientific assessment and commercialization. Our RRPs are smoke-free products that contain and/or generate far lower quantities of harmful and potentially harmful constituents than found in cigarette smoke. Our RRPs and commercial activities for these products are designed for, and directed toward, current adult smokers and users of nicotine-containing products. We put significant effort to restrict access of our products from non-smokers and youth. We believe regulation must include measures designed to prevent youth initiation; and we also support and engage with relevant authorities to seek sensible regulation of flavors, mandated health warnings and minimum age laws. Our IQOS smoke-free product brand portfolio includes heated tobacco and nicotine-containing vapor products. Our leading smoke-free platform ("Platform 1") uses a precisely controlled heating device into which a specially designed and proprietary tobacco unit is inserted and heated to generate an aerosol. Heated tobacco units ("HTU") is the term we use to refer to heated tobacco consumables, 1 which include our BLENDS , DELIA , HEETS , HEETS Creations, HEETS Dimensions (defined collectively as " HEETS") , Marlboro HeatSticks, SENTIA, TEREA, TEREA CRAFTED, and TEREA Dimensions, as well as the KT G-licensed brands, Fiit and Miix (outside of South Korea). HTU's also include zero tobacco heat-not-burn consumables ( LEVIA ). Platform 1 was first introduced in Nagoya, Japan, in 2014. As of December 31, 2023, our smoke-free products were available for sale in 84 markets. At the time of our acquisition of Swedish Match, it already had a leading nicotine pouch franchise in the U.S. under the ZYN brand name . The Swedish Match product portfolio is complementary to our existing smoke-free portfolio, permitting us to bring together a leading oral nicotine product with the leading heat-not-burn product. By joining forces with Swedish Match, we expect to accelerate the achievement of our joint smoke-free ambitions, switching more adults who would otherwise continue to smoke to better alternatives faster than either company could achieve separately. Our cigarettes are sold in approximately 175 markets, and in many of these markets they hold the number one or number two market share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price brands. Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands and is led by Marlboro , the world s best-selling international cigarette, which accounted for approximately 39% of our total 2023 cigarette shipment volume. Marlboro is complemented in the premium-price category by Parliament . Our other leading international cigarette brands are Chesterfield, L M , and Philip Morris. These five international cigarette brands contributed approximately 79% of our cigarette shipment volume in 2023. We also own a number of important local cigarette brands, such as Dji Sam Soe and Sampoerna A in Indonesia, and Fortune and Jackpot in the Philippines. Source of Funds Dividends We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior rights of creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be recognized. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from the receipt of dividends and repayment of debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions that are otherwise compliant with law. Description of Business To further support the growth of our smoke-free business, reinforce consumer centricity, and increase the speed of innovation and deployment, in January 2023, we rearranged our operations in four geographical segments, down from the previous six, as follows: Europe Region is headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland, and covers all the European Union countries, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and also Ukraine, Moldova and Southeast Europe; South and Southeast Asia, Commonwealth of Independent States, Middle East and Africa Region ("SSEA, CIS MEA") is headquartered in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It covers South and Southeast Asia, the African continent, the Middle East, Turkey, as well as Israel, Central Asia, Caucasus and Russia; East Asia, Australia, and PMI Duty Free Region ("EA, AU PMI DF") is headquartered in Hong Kong, and includes the consolidation of our international duty free business with East Asia Australia; and Americas Region is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and covers the United States, Canada and Latin America. The operations of Swedish Match, which reflects our fourth quarter 2022 acquisition of the company, and our Wellness and Healthcare segment remained unchanged. The Wellness and Healthcare ("W H") segment includes the operating results of our Wellness and Healthcare business, Vectura Fertin Pharma. Following the combination and the progress in 2023 toward the integration of the Swedish Match business into the existing PMI regional segment structure, we will update our segment reporting by including Swedish Match results in the four existing geographical segments. As of the first quarter of 2024, we will report on this basis. Our total shipment volume, including cigarettes and heated tobacco units, increased by 1.0% in 2023 to 738.2 billion units, with shipment volume of heated tobacco units reaching 125.3 billion units in 2023, up from 109.2 billion units in 2022. Shipment volume of our principal cigarette brand, Marlboro , decreased by 1.9% in 2023. References in this Form 10-K to total international market, defined as worldwide cigarette and heated tobacco unit volume, excluding the United States, total industry (or total market) and market shares, are our estimates for tax-paid products based on the latest 2 available data from a number of internal and external sources, and may, in defined instances, exclude China and/or our duty free business. Unless otherwise stated, references to total industry (or total market), our shipment volume and our market share performance reflect cigarettes and heated tobacco units. Key data regarding total market and market share were as follows: 2023 2022 2021 Total Market, billion units (excluding China and the U.S.) 2,580 2,622 2,620 Total International Market Share (1) 28.3% 27.7% 27.2% Cigarettes 23.7% 23.6% 23.7% HTU 4.7% 4.1% 3.5% PMI Cigarette over Cigarette Market Share (2) 25.2% 25.0% 24.8% Marlboro Cigarette over Cigarette Market Share (3) 9.8% 9.8% 9.5% (1) Defined as PMI's cigarette and heated tobacco unit in-market sales volume as a percentage of total industry cigarette and heated tobacco unit sales volume, excluding China and the U.S., including cigarillos in Japan (2) Defined as PMI's cigarette in-market sales volume as a percentage of total industry cigarette sales volume, excluding China and the U.S., including cigarillos in Japan (3) Defined as Marlboro 's cigarette in-market sales volume as a percentage of total industry cigarette sales volume, excluding China and the U.S., including cigarillos in Japan Note: Sum of share of market by product categories might not foot to total due to roundings We have a market share of at least 15% in approximately 100 markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, the Slovak Republic, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine. Distribution Sales Our main types of distribution and sales are tailored to the characteristics of each market and are often used simultaneously: Direct sales and distribution, where we sell directly to the retailers; Distribution through independent distributors that often distribute other fast-moving consumer goods and are responsible for distribution in a particular market; Exclusive zonified distribution, where the dedicated multicategory product distributors are assigned to exclusive territories within a market; Distribution through national or regional wholesalers that then supply the retail trade; Our own e-commerce infrastructure for product sales to trade partners and to consumers; and Our own brand retail infrastructure for our RRPs and accessories for sales to consumers. 3 Competition We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, R D, innovation, packaging, customer service, marketing, advertising and retail price and, increasingly, adult smoker willingness to convert to our RRPs. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions; erosion of consumer confidence; competitors' introduction of lower-price products or innovative products; novel products which given their taste characteristics may be more commercially successful; higher product taxes; higher absolute prices and larger gaps between retail price categories; and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products, restricts adult consumer access to truthful and non-misleading information about our RRPs, or disproportionately impacts the commercialization of our products in relation to our competitors. Competitors in our industry include British American Tobacco plc, Japan Tobacco Inc., Imperial Brands plc, new market entrants, particularly with respect to innovative products, several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in Algeria, Egypt, China, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Some competitors have different profit, volume and regulatory objectives, and some international competitors may be less susceptible than PMI to changes in currency exchange rates. Certain new market entrants in the non-combustible product category may alienate consumers from innovative products through inappropriate marketing campaigns, messaging and inferior product satisfaction, and without scientific substantiation based on appropriate R D protocols and standards. The growing use of digital media could increase the speed and extent of the dissemination of inaccurate and misleading information about our RRPs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Procurement and Raw Materials We purchase tobacco leaf of various types, grades and styles throughout the world, mostly through independent international tobacco suppliers. In 2023, we also contracted directly with farmers in several countries, including Argentina, Brazil, Italy, Pakistan and Poland. In 2023, direct sourcing from farmers represented approximately 18% of PMI s global leaf requirements. The largest supplies of tobacco leaf are sourced from Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Italy, Indonesia (mostly for domestic use in kretek products), Malawi, Mozambique, the Philippines, Turkey and the United States. We believe that there is an adequate supply of tobacco leaf in the world markets to satisfy our current and anticipated production requirements. Given the global reach of our value chain, properly managing land and water resources and utilizing a geographically diversified sourcing strategy for agricultural products are priorities as we seek to increase the resilience of our production systems and minimize operational risks. We conduct a global water risk assessment annually in tobacco-growing regions to identify potential hotspots for physical water risks that require adaptation measures. Our water stewardship strategy includes guidance for applying a landscape approach to water optimization projects, protecting natural resources and recharge areas, and improving the efficiency of irrigation systems to integrate better farm water management. These business practices are intended to mitigate the risk that climate change could influence weather patterns in ways that negatively impact the quality or cost of the agricultural products used to manufacture our products. In addition to tobacco leaf, we purchase a wide variety of direct materials from a total of approximately 360 suppliers. In 2023, our top ten suppliers of direct materials combined represented approximately 60% of our total direct materials purchases. The four most significant direct materials that we purchase are printed paper board used in packaging, acetate tow used in filter making, fine paper used in the manufacturing of cigarettes and heated tobacco units, and susceptors used for the TEREA heated tobacco units. In addition, the adequate supply and procurement of cloves are of particular importance to our Indonesian business. We discuss the details of our supply chain for our RRPs in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 7 ) in Business Environment Reduced-Risk Products . Business Environment Information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs in Item 7, Business Environment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 Other Matters Customers As described in more detail in Distribution Sales above, in many of our markets we sell our products to distributors. In 2023, sales to a distributor in the Europe Region and a distributor in the EA, AU PMI DF Region each amounted to 10 percent or more of our consolidated net revenues. See Item 8, Note 13. Segment Reporting for more information. We believe that none of our business segments is dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. In some of our markets, particularly in the Europe, SSEA, CIS MEA, and EA, AU PMI DF Regions, a loss of a distributor may result in a temporary market disruption. Human Capital Our Workforce . At December 31, 2023, including Swedish Match's employees, we employed approximately 82,700 people worldwide of more than 130 different nationalities, including full-time, temporary and part-time staff. Our businesses are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to our relationship with our employees. Generally, these laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business. We engage with legally recognized employee representative bodies and we have collective bargaining agreements in several of the countries in which we operate. In addition, in accordance with European Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe we maintain good relations with our employees and their representative organizations. Our Internal Transformation . To be successful in our transformation to a smoke-free future, we must continue transforming our culture and ways of working, align our talent with our business needs, successfully integrate acquired businesses and innovate to become a truly consumer-centric business. To achieve our strategic goals, we need to attract, retain and motivate the best global talent, talent that is diverse and has the right degree of experience, competencies and skills. Therefore, we strive to ensure the development of our existing talent while recruiting those with expertise in areas that are relatively new to us such as digital and technical solutions. Our compensation and benefit programs are set at the levels that we believe are necessary to attract the best talent and remain competitive with other consumer product companies. Oversight and Management . Our Board of Directors (the "Board") provides oversight of various matters pertaining to our workforce. The Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board is responsible for executive compensation matters and oversight of the risks and programs related to talent management. Our Code of Conduct highlights our commitment to ethical business conduct and honesty, respect, and fairness. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion . At PMI, we believe that a diverse workforce and an inclusive culture are strategic priorities that help fuel innovation and business success. We aspire to maintain a minimum of 40% female representation globally in management positions in most of our business functions and regions, and to have at least 35% of senior positions held by women globally by 2025. Given the size and continued growth of our business in Asia, it is also our aspiration to have at least 20% of senior roles held by Asian talent globally and at least 60% representation of local talent in our market management teams by 2025. We were the first multinational company to receive a global EQUAL-SALARY certification from the EQUAL-SALARY Foundation in 2019. In 2022, we were re-certified as a global EQUAL-SALARY organization for the second time, verifying that PMI continues to pay female and male employees equally for equal work everywhere where we operate. This achievement is an important milestone toward the creation of a more diverse and inclusive workplace and the continuation of our reputation as a top employer. In 2023, we completed another year of market level reviews with success and maintained our global certification. Creation of employee resource groups ("ERGs") was another important priority to drive further inclusion at PMI. Our ERGs are open to participation by all employees and we believe they help build an enhanced sense of belonging, visibility, and greater understanding of different experiences and dimensions of diversity in our company. Currently, we have established global ERGs for race, ethnicity and cultural diversity, LGBTQ+, gender, parents and caregivers, and disability dimensions concerning our employees. Each global ERG is sponsored by a member of the PMI senior leadership team to reinforce the fact that our strong commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion comes from the top. In 2023, we continued to focus on the growth of our global ERGs, and to expand them locally, to be able to meet the specific needs of different markets and regions. 5 Government Regulation As a company with global operations in a heavily regulated industry, we are subject to multiple laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We discuss our regulatory environment in Item 7, Business Environment . The regulatory landscape related to sustainability matters is rapidly evolving. We closely monitor these developments and implement initiatives addressing PMI s priorities in line with our sustainability strategy. In particular, we are subject to international, national and local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. We have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements and reduce our carbon footprint, wastage, as well as water and energy consumption. We report externally about our climate change mitigation strategy, together with associated targets and results in reducing our carbon footprint, through CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project), the leading international non-governmental organization assessing the work of thousands of companies worldwide in the area of environmental impact, including climate change. Our environmental and occupational health and safety management program includes policies, standard practices and procedures at all our manufacturing centers. Furthermore, we have engaged an external certification body to validate the effectiveness of this management program at our manufacturing centers around the world, in accordance with internationally recognized standards for safety and environmental management. Our subsidiaries expect to continue to make investments in order to drive improved performance and maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We assess and report to our management the compliance status of all our legal entities on a regular basis. Based on current regulations, the management and controls we have in place and our review of climate change risks (both physical and regulatory), environmental expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position. Based on current regulations, compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, has not had, and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings, or competitive position. As discussed in more detail in