Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 15 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 15 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6. [Reserved] 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 65 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Item 9B. Other Information 127 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 127 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 127 Item 11. Executive Compensation 130 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 130 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 130 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 130 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 131 Signatures 136 In this report, PMI, we, us and our refers to Philip Morris International Inc. and its subsidiaries. Trademarks and service marks in this report are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Philip Morris International Inc. and are italicized. PART I Item 1. Business. General Development of Business General Philip Morris International Inc. is a Virginia holding company incorporated in 1987. We are a leading international tobacco company working to deliver a smoke-free future and evolving our portfolio for the long-term to include products outside of the tobacco and nicotine sector. Our current product portfolio primarily consists of cigarettes and reduced-risk products, including heat-not-burn, vapor and oral nicotine products, which are sold in markets outside the United States. Since 2008, we have invested more than $9 billion to develop, scientifically substantiate and commercialize innovative smoke-free products for adults who would otherwise continue to smoke, with the goal of completely ending the sale of cigarettes. This includes the building of world-class scientific assessment capabilities, notably in the areas of pre-clinical systems toxicology, clinical and behavioral research, as well as post-market studies. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") has authorized the marketing of a version of PMI s IQOS Platform 1 device and consumables as a Modified Risk Tobacco Product ("MRTP"), finding that an exposure modification order for these products is appropriate to promote the public health. We describe the MRTP order in more detail in the "Business Environment" section of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . With a strong foundation and significant expertise in life-sciences, in February 2021, we announced our ambition to expand into wellness and healthcare areas and deliver innovative products and solutions that aim to address unmet patient and consumer needs. In March 2008, we became a U.S. public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange and subject to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Reduced-risk products ("RRPs") is the term we use to refer to products that present, are likely to present, or have the potential to present less risk of harm to smokers who switch to these products versus continuing to smoke. We have a range of RRPs in various stages of development, scientific assessment and commercialization. Our RRPs are smoke-free products that contain and/or generate far lower quantities of harmful and potentially harmful constituents than found in cigarette smoke. Our IQOS smoke-free product brand portfolio includes heated tobacco and nicotine-containing vapor products. Our leading smoke-free platform ("Platform 1") is a precisely controlled heating device into which a specially designed and proprietary tobacco unit is inserted and heated to generate an aerosol. Heated tobacco units ("HTU") is the term we use to refer to heated tobacco consumables, which include our HEETS , HEETS Creations, HEETS Dimensions, HEETS Marlboro and HEETS FROM MARLBORO ( defined collectively as " HEETS") , Marlboro Dimensions , Marlboro HeatSticks, Parliament HeatSticks and TEREA, as well as the KT G-licensed brands, Fiit and Miix (outside of South Korea). Platform 1 was first introduced in Nagoya, Japan, in 2014. As of December 31, 2021, our smoke-free products are available for sale in 71 markets in key cities or nationwide. Our cigarettes are sold in approximately 180 markets, and in many of these markets they hold the number one or number two market share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price brands. Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands and is led by Marlboro , the world s best-selling international cigarette, which accounted for approximately 38% of our total 2021 cigarette shipment volume. Marlboro is complemented in the premium-price category by Parliament . Our other leading international cigarette brands are Bond Street, Chesterfield, L M , Lark and Philip Morris. These seven international cigarette brands contributed approximately 79% of our cigarette shipment volume in 2021. We also own a number of important local cigarette brands, such as Dji Sam Soe and Sampoerna A in Indonesia, and Fortune and Jackpot in the Philippines. During 2021, we laid the foundation for our long-term growth ambitions beyond nicotine in wellness and healthcare, including the milestone acquisitions of Vectura Group PLC and Fertin Pharma A/S, which provide essential capabilities for future product development. Source of Funds Dividends We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior rights of creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be recognized. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from the receipt of dividends and repayment of debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by 1 long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions that are otherwise compliant with law. Description of Business We currently manage our business in six geographical segments and an Other category: The European Union Region ( EU ) is headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland, and covers all the European Union countries and also Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and the United Kingdom; The Eastern Europe Region ( EE ) is also headquartered in Lausanne and includes Southeast Europe, Central Asia, Ukraine, Israel and Russia; The Middle East Africa Region ( ME A ) is also headquartered in Lausanne and covers the African continent, the Middle East, Turkey and our international duty free business; The South Southeast Asia Region ( S SA ) is headquartered in Hong Kong and includes Indonesia, the Philippines and other markets in this region; The East Asia Australia Region ( EA A ) is also headquartered in Hong Kong and includes Australia, Japan, South Korea, the People's Republic of China and other markets in this region, as well as Malaysia and Singapore; The Americas Region ( AMCS ) is headquartered in New York and covers the South American continent, Central America, Mexico, the Caribbean and Canada. AMCS also includes transactions under license with Altria Group, Inc., for the distribution of our Platform 1 product in the United States; and Other, which includes our third quarter 2021 acquisitions of Fertin Pharma A/S, Vectura Group plc. and OtiTopic, Inc. For further details, see Item 8, Note 6. Acquisitions and Item 8, Note 12. Segment Reporting . In the third quarter of 2021, our former Latin America Canada segment was renamed as the Americas segment. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we announced that we will be relocating our PMI corporate headquarters, including our AMCS headquarters, from New York, New York, to Stamford, Connecticut. This move is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2022. As of March 22, 2019, we deconsolidated the financial results of our Canadian subsidiary, Rothmans, Benson Hedges Inc. ("RBH"), from our financial statements. For further details, see Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 8 ) Note 20. Deconsolidation of RBH . Since the deconsolidation of our Canadian subsidiary, we have continued to report the volume of brands sold by RBH for which other PMI subsidiaries are the trademark owners. These include HEETS , Next , Philip Morris and Rooftop . References to total international market, defined as worldwide cigarette and heated tobacco unit volume excluding the United States, total industry, total market and market shares in this Form 10-K, are our estimates for tax-paid products based on the latest available data from a number of internal and external sources and may, in defined instances, exclude the People's Republic of China and/or our duty free business. Unless otherwise stated, references to total industry, total market, our shipment volume and our market share performance reflect cigarettes and heated tobacco units. 2020 and 2021 estimates for total industry volume and market share in certain geographies reflect limitations on the availability and accuracy of industry data during pandemic-related restrictions. Our total shipments, including cigarettes and heated tobacco units, increased by 2.2% in 2021 to 719.9 billion units. We estimate that international industry volumes, including cigarettes and heated tobacco units, were approximately 5.0 trillion units in 2021, a 1.3% increase from 2020. Excluding the People s Republic of China ( PRC ), we estimate that international cigarette and heated tobacco unit volume was 2.6 trillion units in 2021, a 2.4% increase from 2020. We estimate that our reported share of the international market (which is defined as worldwide cigarette and heated tobacco unit volume, excluding the United States of America) was approximately 14.3% in 2021, 14.3% in 2020 and 15.1% in 2019. Excluding the PRC, we estimate that our reported share of the international market was approximately 27.3%, 27.7%, and 28.4% in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 2 Shipments of our principal cigarette brand, Marlboro , increased by 2.9% in 2021, and represented approximately 9.5% of the international cigarette market, excluding the PRC, in 2021, 9.5% in 2020, and 10.0% in 2019. Total shipment volume of heated tobacco units reached 95.0 billion units in 2021, up from 76.1 billion units in 2020. We have a market share of at least 15% in approximately 100 markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Egypt, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine. Distribution Sales Our main types of distribution and sales are tailored to the characteristics of each market and are often used simultaneously: Direct sales and distribution, where we have set up our own distribution selling directly to the retailers; Distribution through independent distributors that often distribute other fast-moving consumer goods and are responsible for distribution in a particular market; Exclusive zonified distribution, where the distributors are dedicated to us in multicategory products distribution and assigned to exclusive territories within a market; Distribution through national or regional wholesalers that then supply the retail trade; Our own e-commerce infrastructure for product sales to trade partners and to consumers; and Our own brand retail infrastructure for our RRP products and accessories for sales to consumers. Competition We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, R D, innovation, packaging, customer service, marketing, advertising and retail price and, increasingly, adult smoker willingness to convert to our RRPs. In the combustible product category, we predominantly sell American blend cigarette brands, such as Marlboro , L M , Parliament, Philip Morris and Chesterfield , which are the most popular across many of our markets. In the RRP product category, we predominantly sell Platform 1 devices and heated tobacco units under the IQOS brand umbrella. We seek to compete in all profitable retail price categories, although our brand portfolio is weighted towards the premium-price category. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors' introduction of lower-price products or innovative products, higher tobacco product taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between retail price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products and restricts adult consumer access to truthful and non-misleading information about our RRPs. Competitors in our industry include three large international tobacco companies, new market entrants, particularly with respect to innovative products, several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in Algeria, Egypt, the PRC, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Certain new market entrants in the non-combustible product category may alienate consumers from innovative products through inappropriate marketing campaigns, messaging and inferior product satisfaction, while not relying on scientific substantiation based on appropriate R D protocols and standards. The growing use of digital media could increase the speed and extent of the dissemination of inaccurate and misleading information about our RRPs, all of which could have a mutual adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Procurement and Raw Materials We purchase tobacco leaf of various types, grades and styles throughout the world, mostly through independent tobacco suppliers. In 2021, we also contracted directly with farmers in several countries, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Italy, Pakistan and Poland. In 2021, direct sourcing from farmers represented approximately 25% of PMI s global leaf requirements. The largest supplies of tobacco leaf are sourced from Argentina, Brazil, China, Italy, Indonesia (mostly for domestic use in kretek products), Malawi, Mozambique, the Philippines, Turkey and the United States. We believe that there is an adequate supply of tobacco leaf in the world markets to satisfy our current and anticipated production requirements. 3 In addition to tobacco leaf, we purchase a wide variety of direct materials from a total of approximately 360 suppliers. In 2021, our top ten suppliers of direct materials combined represented approximately 60% of our total direct materials purchases. The three most significant direct materials that we purchase are printed paper board used in packaging, acetate tow used in filter making and fine paper used in the manufacturing of cigarettes and heated tobacco units. In addition, the adequate supply and procurement of cloves are of particular importance to our Indonesian business. We discuss the details of our supply chain for our RRPs in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 7 ) in Business Environment Reduced-Risk Products . Business Environment Information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs in Item 7, Business Environment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Matters Customers As described in more detail in Distribution Sales above, in many of our markets we sell our products to distributors. In 2021, sales to a distributor in the European Union Region and a distributor in the East Asia Australia Region each amounted to 10 percent or more of our consolidated net revenues. See Item 8, Note 12. Segment Reporting for more information. We believe that none of our business segments is dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. In some of our markets, particularly in the European Union, Eastern Europe and in the East Asia Australia Regions, a loss of a distributor may result in a temporary market disruption. Employees Our Workforce . At December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 69,600 people worldwide of 133 different nationalities, including full-time, temporary and part-time staff. Our businesses are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to our relationship with our employees. Generally, these laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business. We engage with legally recognized employee representative bodies and we have collective bargaining agreements in many of the countries in which we operate. In addition, in accordance with European Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe we maintain good relations with our employees and their representative organizations. Our Internal Transformation . To be successful in our transformation to a smoke-free future, we must continue transforming our culture and ways of working, align our talent with our business needs and innovate to become a truly consumer-centric business. To achieve our strategic goals, we need to attract, retain and motivate the best global talent with the right degree of diversity, experience, competencies and skills. Therefore, we strive to ensure the development of our existing talent while increasingly recruiting those with the expertise in areas that are new to us such as digital and technical solutions. We set the levels of our compensation and benefit programs that we believe are necessary to achieve these goals and remain competitive with other consumer product companies. Oversight and Management . Our Board of Directors (the "Board") provides oversight of various matters pertaining to our workforce, and the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board is responsible for executive compensation matters and oversight of the risks and programs related to talent management. Our Code of Conduct, also known at PMI as the Guidebook for Success, highlights our commitment to ethical business conduct and honesty, respect, fairness in our ways of working. Inclusion Diversity . At PMI, we believe that a diverse workforce and an inclusive culture are strategic priorities which help fuel innovation and business success. As part of our commitment to workplace diversity in 2020, our Board appointed a Chief Diversity Officer. Improving gender balance especially in management positions continues to be one of our priorities: We set a target of 40% female representation in management positions by the end of 2022; We launched a Women in Leadership program to support our female talents; and We were the first multinational company to receive a global EQUAL-SALARY certification from the EQUAL-SALARY Foundation. This achievement is an important building block on the road to creating a more inclusive gender-balanced workplace and continuing our reputation as a top employer. 4 In recognition of our efforts, we were added to the 2021 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for transparency in gender reporting and advancing women s equity (among the 380 companies and 11 sectors who scored at or above the global threshold established by Bloomberg). Creation of employee resource groups ("ERGs") was another important milestone to further inclusion at PMI. We believe these groups are an important platform for building an enhanced sense of belonging, visibility, and greater understanding of different experiences and dimensions of diversity in our company. Currently, we have established ERGs on race and ethnicity, LGBTQ+ inclusions, gender and disability. Each ERG is sponsored by a member of the PMI Senior Leadership Team, to illustrate our strong commitment to Inclusion Diversity comes from the top. Our Initiatives in Response to COVID-19 . Since the outbreak of the global COVID-19 pandemic, we have focused on business continuity, health and safety of our employees, and have rapidly adapted our ways of working to a new environment. We have implemented additional safety measures for essential employees in our facilities and offices, and continue to pay salaries to those employees who are unable to work due to government restrictions. We have enhanced remote work arrangements and digital collaboration, and related risk management, and to date, a large majority of our employees continues to work remotely. Government Regulation As a company with global operations in a heavily regulated industry, we are subject to multiple laws and regulations of jurisdictions in which we operate. We discuss our regulatory environment in Item 7, Business Environment . We are subject to international, national and local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. We have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements and reduce our carbon footprint, wastage, as well as water and energy consumption. We report externally about our climate change mitigation strategy, together with associated targets and results in reducing our carbon footprint, through CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project), the leading international non-governmental organization assessing the work of thousands of companies worldwide in the area of environmental impact, including climate change. Our environmental and occupational health and safety management program includes policies, standard practices and procedures at all our manufacturing centers. Furthermore, we have engaged an external certification body to validate the effectiveness of this management program at our manufacturing centers around the world, in accordance with internationally recognized standards for safety and environmental management. Our subsidiaries expect to continue to make investments in order to drive improved performance and maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We assess and report to our management the compliance status of all our legal entities on a regular basis. Based on current regulations, the management and controls we have in place and our review of climate change risks (both physical and regulatory), environmental expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position. Based on current regulations, compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, has not had, and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings, or competitive position. As discussed in more detail in