Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 Information about our Executive Officers 47 PART II 48 Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 48 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 51 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 74 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 75 Pinnacle West Financial Statements 81 APS Financial Statements 90 Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 96 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 180 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 180 Item 9B. Other Information 181 PART III 181 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Pinnacle West 181 Item 11. Executive Compensation 181 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 182 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 183 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 184 PART IV 185 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 185 SIGNATURES 206 This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West and APS. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 10-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information. The information required with respect to each company is set forth within the applicable items. Item 8 of this report includes Consolidated Financial Statements of Pinnacle West and Consolidated Financial Statements of APS. Item 8 also includes Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. i GLOSSARY OF NAMES AND TECHNICAL TERMS 4CA 4C Acquisition, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company AC Alternating Current ACC Arizona Corporation Commission ADEQ Arizona Department of Environmental Quality AFUDC Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ANPP Arizona Nuclear Power Project, also known as Palo Verde APS Arizona Public Service Company, a subsidiary of the Company ARO Asset retirement obligations ASU Accounting Standards Update BART Best available retrofit technology Base Fuel Rate The portion of APS s retail base rates attributable to fuel and purchased power costs BCE Bright Canyon Energy Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company CAISO California Independent System Operator CCR Coal combustion residuals Cholla Cholla Power Plant DC Direct Current distributed energy systems Small-scale renewable energy technologies that are located on customers properties, such as rooftop solar systems DOE United States Department of Energy DOI United States Department of the Interior DSM Demand side management EES Energy Efficiency Standard EGU Electric generating unit El Dorado El Dorado Investment Company, a subsidiary of the Company El Paso El Paso Electric Company EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FERC United States Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Four Corners Four Corners Power Plant GHG Greenhouse gas GWh Gigawatt-hour, one billion watts per hour kV Kilovolt, one thousand volts kWh Kilowatt-hour, one thousand watts per hour LFCR Lost Fixed Cost Recovery Mechanism MMBtu One million British Thermal Units MW Megawatt, one million watts MWh Megawatt-hour, one million watts per hour Native Load Retail and wholesale sales supplied under traditional cost-based rate regulation Navajo Plant Navajo Generating Station NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NRC United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission NTEC Navajo Transitional Energy Company, LLC OCI Other comprehensive income OSM Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement Palo Verde Palo Verde Generating Station or PVGS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (any use of the words Company, we, and our refer to Pinnacle West) PSA Power supply adjustor approved by the ACC to provide for recovery or refund of variations in actual fuel and purchased power costs compared with the Base Fuel Rate RES Arizona Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff Salt River Project or SRP Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District SCE Southern California Edison Company TCA Transmission cost adjustor TEAM Tax expense adjustor mechanism VIE Variable interest entity ii Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "estimate," "predict," "may," "believe," "plan," "expect," "require," "intend," "assume," "project" and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. In addition to the Risk Factors described in Item 1A and in Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report, these factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to manage capital expenditures and operations and maintenance costs while maintaining reliability and customer service levels; variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather, seasonality, the general economy, customer and sales growth (or decline), the effects of energy conservation measures and distributed generation, and technological advancements; power plant and transmission system performance and outages; competition in retail and wholesale power markets; regulatory and judicial decisions, developments and proceedings; new legislation, ballot initiatives and regulation, including those relating to environmental requirements, regulatory policy, nuclear plant operations and potential deregulation of retail electric markets; fuel and water supply availability; our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs, including returns on and of debt and equity capital investment; our ability to meet renewable energy and energy efficiency mandates and recover related costs; risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spent fuel disposal uncertainty; current and future economic conditions in Arizona, including in real estate markets; the direct or indirect effect on our facilities or business from cybersecurity threats or intrusions, data security breaches, terrorist attack, physical attack, severe storms, droughts, or other catastrophic events, such as fires, explosions, pandemic health events or similar occurrences; the development of new technologies which may affect electric sales or delivery; the cost of debt and equity capital and the ability to access capital markets when required; environmental, economic and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation, including regulation of greenhouse gas emissions; volatile fuel and purchased power costs; the investment performance of the assets of our nuclear decommissioning trust, pension, and other postretirement benefit plans and the resulting impact on future funding requirements; the liquidity of wholesale power markets and the use of derivative contracts in our business; potential shortfalls in insurance coverage; new accounting requirements or new interpretations of existing requirements; generation, transmission and distribution facility and system conditions and operating costs; the ability to meet the anticipated future need for additional generation and associated transmission facilities in our region; the willingness or ability of our counterparties, power plant participants and power plant land owners to meet contractual or other obligations or continue or discontinue power plant operations consistent with our corporate interests; and restrictions on dividends or other provisions in our credit agreements and ACC orders. These and other factors are discussed in the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, and in Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this 1 Table of Contents report, which readers should review carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements or disclosures. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements, even if our internal estimates change, except as required by law. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries. We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS. APS is a vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. Pinnacle West s other subsidiaries are El Dorado, BCE and 4CA. Additional information related to these subsidiaries is provided later in this report. Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.3 million customers. We own or lease 6,316 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and short-term purchased power agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements for the purchase of renewable energy. During 2019, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 1.7% of our electric revenues. 3 Table of Contents The following map shows APS s retail service territory, including the locations of its generating facilities and principal transmission lines. 4 Table of Contents Energy Sources and Resource Planning To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through purchased power agreements. Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona s future energy needs. APS s sources of energy by type used to supply energy to Native Load customers during 2019 were as follows: * When including APS s historical energy efficiency and distributed generation energy contributions, the share of our customers energy supply being derived from clean resources is 51%. ** Purchased Power includes renewables from long-term power purchase agreements with grid-scale renewables providers and distributed generation. Clean Energy Focus Initiatives APS has undertaken a number of initiatives to address emission concerns, including renewable energy procurement and development, and promotion of programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use, and energy efficiency. (See Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Current and Future Resources below for details of these plans and initiatives.) APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources, including solar, wind, geothermal, biogas, and biomass. In addition, APS recently announced its Clean Energy Commitment, a three-pronged approach aimed at ultimately eliminating carbon-emitting resources from its electric generation resource portfolio. APS s Clean Energy Commitment consists of three parts. First, APS announced an aspirational goal to generate electricity with zero-carbon emissions by 2050. Second, APS announced a nearer-term 2030 target of 65% clean energy, with 45% of APS's generation coming from renewable energy. Third, APS committed to 5 Table of Contents eliminate coal-fired generation from its portfolio of electricity generating resources by 2031. Among other strategies, APS intends to achieve these goals through various methods such as relying on Palo Verde, the nation s largest producer of carbon-free energy; increasing clean energy resources, including renewables; developing energy storage; cease buying coal-generation; managing demand with a modern interactive grid; promoting customer technology and energy efficiency; and optimizing regional resources. (See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" for additional information about our Clean Energy Commitment.) Over this same period of time, APS also intends to harden its infrastructure in order to improve climate resiliency, which involves system and operational improvements aimed at reducing the impact of extreme weather events and other climate-related disruptions upon APS's operations. Among other resiliency strategies, APS anticipates increasing investments in a modern and more flexible electricity grid with advanced distribution technologies. Moreover, APS plans to continue its comprehensive forest management programs aimed at reducing wildfires, as those risks become compounded by shorter, drier winters and longer, hotter summers. APS prepares an annual inventory of GHG emissions from its operations. For APS's operations involving fossil-fuel electricity generation and electricity transmission and distribution, APS's annual GHG inventory is reported to EPA under the EPA GHG Reporting Program. APS also voluntarily tracks the full scope of the Company's GHG emissions arising from all APS operations. In addition to GHG emissions from generation and transmission and distribution operations, this data includes all other GHG emissions arising from ancillary Company operations, such as vehicle use, employee travel, portable generators and facility energy usage. This data is then communicated to the public in Pinnacle West s annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website ( www.pinnaclewest.com ). The report provides information related to the Company and its approach to sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance. The information on Pinnacle West s website, including the Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into or otherwise a part of this report. Generation Facilities APS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar generating facilities described below. For additional information regarding these facilities, see Item 2. Nuclear Palo Verde Generating Station Palo Verde is a 3-unit nuclear power plant located approximately 50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3 and approximately 17% of Unit 2. In addition, APS leases approximately 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 29.1% combined ownership and leasehold interest in that unit. APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW. Palo Verde Leases In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and lease back approximately 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain common facilities. The leaseback was originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2015 and contained options to renew the leases or to purchase the leased property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms. On July 7, 2014, APS exercised the fixed rate lease renewal options. The exercise of the renewal options resulted in APS retaining the assets through 2023 under one lease and 2033 under the other two leases. At the end of the lease renewal periods, APS will have the option to purchase the leased assets at their fair market value, extend the leases for up to two years, or return the assets to the lessors. See Note 19 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions. 6 Table of Contents Palo Verde Operating Licenses Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987, and issued renewed operating licenses for each of the three units in April 2011, which extended the licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 to June 2045, April 2046 and November 2047, respectively. Palo Verde Fuel Cycle The participant owners of Palo Verde are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs. The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages: mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride; enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; fabrication of fuel assemblies; utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The Palo Verde participants have contracted for 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for uranium concentrates through 2025 and 30% through 2028; 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for conversion services through 2025, and 40% through 2030; 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for enrichment services through 2021, 90% for 2022, and 80% for 2023 through 2026; and 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for fuel fabrication through 2027. Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 ( NWPA ) required the DOE to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste generated by the nation s nuclear power plants by 1998. The DOE s obligations are reflected in a contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste (the Standard Contract ) with each nuclear power plant. The DOE failed to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by 1998. The DOE had planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations by designing, licensing, constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. In June 2008, the DOE submitted its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application to the NRC, but in March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. Several legal proceedings followed challenging DOE s withdrawal of its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application and the NRC s cessation of its review of the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application, which were consolidated into one matter at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (the D.C. Circuit ). Following the D.C. Circuit s August 2013 order, the NRC issued two volumes of the safety evaluation report developed as part of the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. Publication of these volumes do not signal whether or when the NRC might authorize construction of the repository. APS is directly involved in legal proceedings related to the DOE s failure to meet its statutory and contractual obligations regarding acceptance of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste. APS Lawsuit for Breach of Standard Contract In December 2003, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the Palo Verde participants, filed a lawsuit against the DOE in the United States Court of Federal Claims ("Court of Federal Claims") for damages incurred due to the DOE s breach of the Standard Contract. The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and the Palo Verde participants in October 2010 and awarded damages to APS and the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through December 2006. On December 19, 2012, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the participant owners of Palo Verde, filed a second breach of contract lawsuit against the DOE in the Court of Federal Claims. This lawsuit sought to recover damages incurred due to the DOE s breach of the Standard Contract for failing to accept Palo Verde s 7 Table of Contents spent nuclear fuel and high level waste from January 1, 2007 through June 30, 2011, as it was required to do pursuant to the terms of the Standard Contract and the NWPA. On August 18, 2014, APS and the DOE entered into a settlement agreement, stipulating to a dismissal of the lawsuit and payment by the DOE to the Palo Verde owners for certain specified costs incurred by Palo Verde during the period January 1, 2007 through June 30, 2011. In addition, the settlement agreement provides APS with a method for submitting claims and getting recovery for costs incurred through December 31, 2016, which was extended to December 31, 2019. APS has submitted and received payment for five claims pursuant to the terms of the August 18, 2014 settlement agreement, for five separate time periods during July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2018. The DOE has paid $84.3 million for these claims (APS s share is $24.5 million). The amounts recovered were primarily recorded as adjustments to a regulatory liability and had no impact on reported net income. APS's next claim pursuant to the terms of the August 18, 2014 settlement agreement was submitted to the DOE on October 31, 2019 in the amount of $16 million (APS's share is $4.7 million). On February 11, 2020, the DOE approved a payment of $15.4 million (APS s share is $4.5 million). Waste Confidence and Continued Storage On June 8, 2012, the D.C. Circuit issued its decision on a challenge by several states and environmental groups of the NRC s rulemaking regarding temporary storage and permanent disposal of high level nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel. The petitioners had challenged the NRC s 2010 update to the agency s waste confidence decision and temporary storage rule ( Waste Confidence Decision ). The D.C. Circuit found that the NRC s evaluation of the environmental risks from spent nuclear fuel was deficient, and therefore remanded the Waste Confidence Decision update for further action consistent with NEPA. In September 2013, the NRC issued its draft Generic Environmental Impact Statement ( GEIS ) to support an updated Waste Confidence Decision. On August 26, 2014, the NRC approved a final rule on the environmental effects of continued storage of spent nuclear fuel. Renamed as the Continued Storage Rule, the NRC s decision adopted the findings of the GEIS regarding the environmental impacts of storing spent fuel at any reactor site after the reactor s licensed period of operations. As a result, those generic impacts do not need to be re-analyzed in the environmental reviews for individual licenses. The final Continued Storage Rule was subject to continuing legal challenges before the NRC and the Court of Appeals. In June 2016, the D.C. Circuit issued its final decision, rejecting all remaining legal challenges to the Continued Storage Rule. On August 8, 2016, the D.C. Circuit denied a petition for rehearing. Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site independent spent fuel storage installation ( ISFSI ) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period, which ends in December 2027. Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in November 2047. If uncertainties regarding the United States government s obligation to accept and store spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate alternative storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate all of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3. The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APS s ACC jurisdictional rates. Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable system benefits charge (paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system). Based on current nuclear decommissioning trust asset balances, site specific decommissioning cost studies, anticipated future contributions to the decommissioning trusts, and return projections on the asset portfolios over the expected remaining operating life of the facility, we are on track to meet the current site specific decommissioning costs for Palo Verde at the time the units are expected to be decommissioned. See Note 20 for additional information about APS s nuclear decommissioning trusts. 8 Table of Contents Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters See Palo Verde Generating Station Nuclear Insurance in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde. Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located near Palo Verde; Ocotillo, located in Tempe (discussed below); Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma. Several of the units at Yucca run on either gas or oil. APS has two oil-only power plants: Fairview, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona and Yucca GT-4 in Yuma, Arizona. APS owns and operates each of these plants with the exception of one oil-only combustion turbine unit and one oil and gas steam unit at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District. APS has a total entitlement from these plants of 3,573 MW. Gas for these plants is financially hedged up to five years in advance of purchasing and the gas is generally purchased one month prior to delivery. APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which are effective through 2027. Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases delivered by truck directly to the power plants. Ocotillo was originally a 330 MW 4-unit gas plant located in the metropolitan Phoenix area. In early 2014, APS announced a project to modernize the plant, which involved retiring two older 110 MW steam units, adding five 102 MW combustion turbines and maintaining two existing 55 MW combustion turbines. In total, this increased the capacity of the site by 290 MW to 620 MW. (See Note 4 for rate recovery as part of the ACC final written Opinion and Order issued reflecting its decision in APS s general retail rate case (the "2017 Rate Case Decision")). The Ocotillo modernization project was completed in 2019. Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners Four Corners is located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico, and was originally a 5-unit coal-fired power plant. APS owns 100% of Units 1, 2 and 3, which were retired as of December 30, 2013. APS operates the plant and owns 63% of Four Corners Units 4 and 5. APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 970 MW. Additionally, 4CA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West, owned 7% of Units 4 and 5 from July 2016 through July 2018 following its acquisition of El Paso's interest in these units described below. As part of APS's recently announced Clean Energy Commitment, APS has committed to eliminate coal-fired generation from its portfolio of electricity generating resources, including Four Corners, by 2031. NTEC, a company formed by the Navajo Nation to own the mine that serves Four Corners and develop other energy projects, is the coal supplier for Four Corners. The Four Corners co-owners executed a long-term agreement for the supply of coal to Four Corners from July 2016 through 2031 (the "2016 Coal Supply Agreement"). El Paso, a 7% owner of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners, did not sign the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement. Under the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement, APS agreed to assume the 7% shortfall obligation. On February 17, 2015, APS and El Paso entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS, or an affiliate of APS, of El Paso s 7% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. 4CA purchased the El Paso interest on July 6, 2016. The purchase price was immaterial in amount, and 4CA assumed El Paso's reclamation and decommissioning obligations associated with the 7% interest. On June 29, 2018, 4CA and NTEC entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the sale to NTEC of 4CA's 7% interest in Four Corners. The sale transaction closed on July 3, 2018. NTEC purchased the 7% interest at 4CA s book value, approximately $70 million, and is paying 4CA the purchase price over a 9 Table of Contents period of four years pursuant to a secured interest-bearing promissory note. In connection with the sale, Pinnacle West guaranteed certain obligations that NTEC will have to the other owners of Four Corners, such as NTEC's 7% share of capital expenditures and operating and maintenance expenses. Pinnacle West's guarantee is secured by a portion of APS's payments to be owed to NTEC under the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement. The 2016 Coal Supply Agreement contained alternate pricing terms for the 7% interest in the event NTEC did not purchase the interest. Until the time that NTEC purchased the 7% interest, the alternate pricing provisions were applicable to 4CA as the holder of the 7% interest. These terms included a formula under which NTEC must make certain payments to 4CA for reimbursement of operations and maintenance costs and a specified rate of return, offset by revenue generated by 4CA s power sales. The amount under this formula for calendar year 2018 (up to the date that NTEC purchased the 7% interest) was approximately $10 million, which was due to 4CA on December 31, 2019. Such payment was satisfied in January 2020 by NTEC directing to 4CA a prepayment from APS of future coal payment obligations. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners 