Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 47 Item 2. Properties 48 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 51 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 Information about our Executive Officers 52 PART II 53 Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 Item 6. [Reserved] 54 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 87 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 88 Pinnacle West Financial Statements 94 APS Financial Statements 105 Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 111 Pinnacle West Schedule I 192 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 196 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 196 Item 9B. Other Information 197 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 197 PART III 197 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Pinnacle West 197 Item 11. Executive Compensation 197 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 197 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 199 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 199 PART IV 200 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 200 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 221 SIGNATURES 222 This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West and APS. Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this Form 10-K that relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries. Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information. The information required with respect to each company is set forth within the applicable items. Item 8 of this report includes Consolidated Financial Statements of Pinnacle West and Consolidated Financial Statements of APS. Item 8 also includes Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. i Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF NAMES AND TECHNICAL TERMS 4CA 4C Acquisition, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company AC Alternating Current ACC Arizona Corporation Commission ADEQ Arizona Department of Environmental Quality AFUDC Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ANPP Arizona Nuclear Power Project, also known as Palo Verde APS Arizona Public Service Company, a subsidiary of the Company ARO Asset retirement obligations ASU Accounting Standards Update BART Best available retrofit technology Base Fuel Rate The portion of APS s retail base rates attributable to fuel and purchased power costs BCE Bright Canyon Energy Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company CAISO California Independent System Operator CCR Coal combustion residuals Cholla Cholla Power Plant COVID-19 Coronavirus DC Direct Current distributed energy systems Small-scale renewable energy technologies that are located on customers properties, such as rooftop solar systems DOE United States Department of Energy DOI United States Department of the Interior DSM Demand side management EES Energy Efficiency Standard EGU Electric generating unit El Dorado El Dorado Investment Company, a subsidiary of the Company El Paso El Paso Electric Company EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FERC United States Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Four Corners Four Corners Power Plant GHG Greenhouse gas GWh Gigawatt-hour, one billion watts per hour kV Kilovolt, one thousand volts kWh Kilowatt-hour, one thousand watts per hour LFCR Lost Fixed Cost Recovery Mechanism MMBtu One million British Thermal Units MW Megawatt, one million watts MWh Megawatt-hour, one million watts per hour Native Load Retail and wholesale sales supplied under traditional cost-based rate regulation Navajo Plant Navajo Generating Station NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NRC United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission NTEC Navajo Transitional Energy Company, LLC OCI Other comprehensive income Palo Verde Palo Verde Generating Station or PVGS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (any use of the words Company, we, and our refer to Pinnacle West) PPA Power Purchase Agreement PSA Power supply adjustor approved by the ACC to provide for recovery or refund of variations in actual fuel and purchased power costs compared with the Base Fuel Rate RES Arizona Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff Salt River Project or SRP Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District SCE Southern California Edison Company TCA Transmission cost adjustor TEAM Tax expense adjustor mechanism VIE Variable interest entity ii Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as estimate, predict, may, believe, plan, expect, require, intend, assume, project, anticipate, goal, seek, strategy, likely, should, will, could, and similar words. Because actual results may differ materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from outcomes currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. In addition to the Risk Factors described in Item 1A and in Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report, these factors include, but are not limited to: the potential effects of the continued COVID-19 pandemic, including, but not limited to, demand for energy, economic growth, our employees and contractors, vaccine mandates, supply chain, expenses, capital markets, capital projects, operations and maintenance activities, uncollectable accounts, liquidity, cash flows or other unpredictable events; our ability to manage capital expenditures and operations and maintenance costs while maintaining reliability and customer service levels; variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather, seasonality (including large increases in ambient temperatures), the general economy or social conditions, customer, and sales growth (or decline), the effects of energy conservation measures and distributed generation ("DG"), and technological advancements; the potential effects of climate change on our electric system, including as a result of weather extremes such as prolonged drought and high temperature variations in the area where APS conducts its business; power plant and transmission system performance and outages; competition in retail and wholesale power markets; regulatory and judicial decisions, developments, and proceedings; new legislation, ballot initiatives and regulation or interpretations of existing legislation or regulations, including those relating to environmental requirements, regulatory and energy policy, nuclear plant operations and potential deregulation of retail electric markets; fuel and water supply availability; our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs through our rates and adjustor recovery mechanisms, including returns on and of debt and equity capital investment; our ability to meet renewable energy and energy efficiency mandates and recover related costs; the ability of APS to achieve its clean energy goals (including a goal by 2050 of 100% clean, carbon-free electricity) and, if these goals are achieved, the impact of such achievement on APS, its customers, and its business, financial condition, and results of operations; risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spent fuel disposal uncertainty; current and future economic conditions in Arizona, including in real estate markets; the direct or indirect effect on our facilities or business from cybersecurity threats or intrusions, data security breaches, terrorist attack, physical attack, severe storms, or other catastrophic events, such as fires, explosions, pandemic health events or similar occurrences; the development of new technologies which may affect electric sales or delivery; the cost of debt and equity capital and the ability to access capital markets when required; environmental, economic, and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation, including regulation of GHG emissions; volatile fuel and purchased power costs; the investment performance of the assets of our nuclear decommissioning trust, pension, and other postretirement benefit plans and the resulting impact on future funding requirements; 1 Table of Contents the liquidity of wholesale power markets and the use of derivative contracts in our business; potential shortfalls in insurance coverage; new accounting requirements or new interpretations of existing requirements; generation, transmission and distribution facility and system conditions and operating costs; the ability to meet the anticipated future need for additional generation and associated transmission facilities in our region; the willingness or ability of our counterparties, power plant participants and power plant landowners to meet contractual or other obligations or extend the rights for continued power plant operations; and restrictions on dividends or other provisions in our credit agreements and ACC orders. These and other factors are discussed in the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, and in Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report, which readers should review carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements or disclosures. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements, even if our internal estimates change, except as required by law. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries. We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS. APS is a vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. Pinnacle West s other subsidiaries are El Dorado, BCE and 4CA. Additional information related to these subsidiaries is provided later in this report. Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission, and distribution. BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.3 million customers. We own or lease 6,323 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and short-term purchased power agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements for the purchase of renewable energy. During 2021, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 1.8% of our electric revenues. 3 Table of Contents The following map shows APS s retail service territory, including the locations of its generating facilities and principal transmission lines. 4 Table of Contents Energy Sources and Resource Planning To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through purchased power agreements. Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona s future energy needs. APS s sources of energy by type used to supply energy to Native Load customers during 2021 were as follows: *Renewables include energy from wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, DG, and solar PPAs. The share of APS s energy supply being derived from clean resources is 50%, which includes energy from nuclear, renewables and DSM. BCE also has acquired minority ownership positions in two wind farms that achieved commercial operation in 2020. Both wind farms deliver power under long-term PPAs. See Business of Other Subsidiaries Bright Canyon Energy below for information regarding BCE s investments. Clean Energy Focus Initiatives In response to climate change, the entire electric utility industry, as well as the global economy, is in the midst of a profound transition to clean energy and a new low-carbon economy. APS has undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce carbon, including renewable energy procurement and development, and promotion of programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use, and energy efficiency. See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Current and Future Resources below for details of these plans and initiatives. APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources, including solar, wind, geothermal, biogas, and biomass. In addition, in January 2020, APS announced its 5 Table of Contents Clean Energy Commitment, a three-pronged approach aimed at ultimately eliminating carbon-emitting resources from its electric generation resource portfolio. APS s clean energy goals consist of three parts: a 2050 goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity; a 2030 target of achieving a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the generation portfolio coming from renewable energy; and a commitment to end APS s use of coal-fired generation by 2031. Among other strategies, APS intends to achieve these goals through various methods such as relying on Palo Verde, the nation s largest producer of carbon-free energy; increasing clean energy resources, including renewables; developing energy storage; ceasing the use of coal-generated electricity; managing demand with a modern interactive grid; promoting customer technology and energy efficiency; and optimizing regional resources. Management takes into consideration climate change and other environmental risks in its strategy development, business planning, and enterprise risk management processes. See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information about APS s Clean Energy Commitment. Over this same period of time, APS also intends to harden its infrastructure in order to improve climate resiliency, which involves system and operational improvements aimed at reducing the impact of extreme weather events and other climate-related disruptions upon APS s operations. Among other resiliency strategies, APS anticipates increasing investments in a modern and more flexible electricity grid with advanced distribution technologies. APS plans to continue its comprehensive forest management programs aimed at reducing wildfires, as those risks become compounded by shorter, drier winters and longer, hotter summers as a result of climate change. APS prepares an annual inventory of GHG emissions from its operations. For APS s operations involving fossil-fuel electricity generation and electricity transmission and distribution, APS s annual GHG inventory is reported to EPA under the EPA GHG Reporting Program. APS also voluntarily tracks the full scope of APS s GHG emissions arising from all APS operations. In addition to reporting to the EPA, we publicly report Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions. This data is then communicated to the public in Pinnacle West s annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website ( www.pinnaclewest.com/corporate-responsibility ). The report provides information related to the Company and its approach to sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance. The information on Pinnacle West s website, including the Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into or otherwise a part of this report. Generation Facilities APS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar generating facilities described below. For additional information regarding these facilities, see Item 2. Nuclear Palo Verde Generating Station Palo Verde is a 3-unit nuclear power plant located approximately 50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3 and approximately 17% of Unit 2. In addition, APS leases approximately 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 6 Table of Contents 29.1% combined ownership and leasehold interest in that unit. APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW. Palo Verde Leases In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and lease back approximately 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain common facilities. The leaseback was originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2015 and contained options to renew the leases or to purchase the leased property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms. On July 7, 2014, APS exercised the fixed rate lease renewal options. The exercise of the renewal options originally resulted in APS retaining the assets through 2023 under one lease and 2033 under the other two leases. On April 1, 2021, APS executed an amendment relating to the lease agreement with the term ending in 2023. The amendment extends the lease term for this lease through 2033 and changes the lease payment. As a result of this amendment, APS will now retain the assets through 2033 under all three lease agreements. At the end of the lease renewal periods, APS will have the option to purchase the leased assets at their fair market value, extend the leases for up to two years, or return the assets to the lessors. See Note 18 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions. Palo Verde Operating Licenses Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986, and Unit 3 in November 1987, and issued renewed operating licenses for each of the three units in April 2011, which extended the licenses for Units 1, 2, and 3 to June 2045, April 2046, and November 2047, respectively. Palo Verde Fuel Cycle The participant owners of Palo Verde are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs. The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages: mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride; enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; fabrication of fuel assemblies; utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The Palo Verde participants have contracted for 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for uranium concentrates through 2028 and 86% through 2029; 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for conversion services through 2026 and 30% through 2030; 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for enrichment services through 2026 and 76% for 2027; and 100% of Palo Verde s requirements for fuel fabrication through 2027 for Unit 2 and Unit 1 and 2028 for Unit 3. Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 ( NWPA ) required the DOE to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste generated by the nation s nuclear power plants by 1998. The DOE s obligations are reflected in a contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste (the Standard Contract ) with each nuclear power plant. The DOE failed to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by 1998. The DOE had planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations by designing, licensing, constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. In June 2008, the DOE submitted its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application to the NRC, but in March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. Several legal 7 Table of Contents proceedings followed challenging DOE s withdrawal of its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application and the NRC s cessation of its review of the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application, which were consolidated into one matter at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (the D.C. Circuit ). Following the D.C. Circuit s August 2013 order, the NRC issued two volumes of the safety evaluation report developed as part of the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. Publication of these volumes do not signal whether or when the NRC might authorize construction of the repository. APS is directly involved in legal proceedings related to the DOE s failure to meet its statutory and contractual obligations regarding acceptance of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste. APS Lawsuit for Breach of Standard Contract In December 2003, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the Palo Verde participants, filed a lawsuit against the DOE in the United States Court of Federal Claims ( Court of Federal Claims ) for damages incurred due to the DOE s breach of the Standard Contract. The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and the Palo Verde participants in October 2010 and awarded damages to APS and the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through December 2006. On December 19, 2012, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the participant owners of Palo Verde, filed a second breach of contract lawsuit against the DOE in the Court of Federal Claims. This lawsuit sought to recover damages incurred due to the DOE s breach of the Standard Contract for failing to accept Palo Verde s spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste from January 1, 2007 through June 30, 2011, as it was required to do pursuant to the terms of the Standard Contract and the NWPA. On August 18, 2014, APS and the DOE entered into a settlement agreement, stipulating to a dismissal of the lawsuit and payment by the DOE to the Palo Verde owners for certain specified costs incurred by Palo Verde during the period January 1, 2007, through June 30, 2011. In addition, the settlement agreement provides APS with a method for submitting claims and getting recovery for costs incurred through December 31, 2016, which was extended to December 31, 2022. APS has submitted seven claims pursuant to the terms of the August 18, 2014, settlement agreement, for seven separate time periods during July 1, 2011, through June 30, 2020. The DOE has approved and paid $111.8 million for these claims (APS s share is $32.5 million). The amounts recovered were primarily recorded as adjustments to a regulatory liability and had no impact on reported net income. In accordance with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, this regulatory liability is being refunded to customers. See Note 4. On November 1, 2021, APS filed its eighth claim pursuant to the terms of the August 18, 2014, settlement agreement in the amount of $12.2 million (APS s share is $3.6 million). In February 2022, the DOE approved this claim. Waste Confidence and Continued Storage On June 8, 2012, the D.C. Circuit issued its decision on a challenge by several states and environmental groups of the NRC s rulemaking regarding temporary storage and permanent disposal of high-level nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel. The petitioners had challenged the NRC s 2010 update to the agency s waste confidence decision and temporary storage rule ( Waste Confidence Decision ). The D.C. Circuit found that the NRC s evaluation of the environmental risks from spent nuclear fuel was deficient, and therefore remanded the Waste Confidence Decision update for further action consistent with National Environmental Policy Act. In September 2013, the NRC issued its draft Generic Environmental Impact Statement ( GEIS ) to support an updated Waste Confidence Decision. On August 26, 2014, the NRC approved a final rule on the environmental effects of continued storage of spent nuclear fuel. Renamed as the Continued Storage Rule, the NRC s decision adopted the findings of the GEIS regarding the environmental impacts of storing spent fuel at any reactor site after the reactor s licensed period of operations. As a result, those generic impacts do not need to be 8 Table of Contents re-analyzed in the environmental reviews for individual licenses. The final Continued Storage Rule was subject to continuing legal challenges before the NRC and the Court of Appeals. In June 2016, the D.C. Circuit issued its final decision, rejecting all remaining legal challenges to the Continued Storage Rule. On August 8, 2016, the D.C. Circuit denied a petition for rehearing. Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site independent spent fuel storage installation ( ISFSI ) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period, which ends in December 2027. Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in November 2047. If uncertainties regarding the United States government s obligation to accept and store spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate alternative storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate all of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3. The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APS s ACC jurisdictional rates. Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable system benefits charge (paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system). Based on current nuclear decommissioning trust asset balances, site specific decommissioning cost studies, anticipated future contributions to the decommissioning trusts, and return projections on the asset portfolios over the expected remaining operating life of the facility, we are on track to meet the current site-specific decommissioning costs for Palo Verde at the time the units are expected to be decommissioned. See Note 19 for additional information about APS s nuclear decommissioning trusts. Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters See Palo Verde Generating Station Nuclear Insurance in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde. Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located near Palo Verde; Ocotillo, located in Tempe (discussed below); Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma. Several of the units at Yucca run on either gas or oil. APS has two oil-only power plants: Fairview, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona and Yucca GT-4 in Yuma, Arizona. APS owns and operates each of these plants with the exception of one oil-only combustion turbine unit and one oil and gas steam unit at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District. APS has a total entitlement from these plants of 3,573 MW. A portion of the gas for these plants is financially hedged up to three years in advance of purchasing and that position is converted to a physical gas purchase one month prior to delivery. APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which are effective through 2027. Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases delivered by truck directly to the power plants. Ocotillo was originally a 330 MW 4-unit gas plant located in Tempe. In early 2014, APS announced a project to modernize the plant, which involved retiring two older 110 MW steam units, adding five 102 MW combustion turbines, and maintaining two existing 55 MW combustion turbines. In total, this increased the capacity of the site by 290 MW to 620 MW. See Note 4 for rate recovery as part of the ACC final written Opinion and Order issued reflecting its decision in APS s general retail rate case (the 9 Table of Contents 2017 Rate Case Decision ) and the 2019 Retail Rate Case Filing. The Ocotillo modernization project was completed in 2019. Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners Four Corners is located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico and was originally a 5-unit coal-fired power plant. APS owns 100% of Units 1, 2 and 3, which were retired as of December 30, 2013. APS operates the plant and owns 63% of Four Corners Units 4 and 5. APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 970 MW. Additionally, 4CA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West, owned 7% of Units 4 and 5 from July 2016 through July 2018 following its acquisition of El Paso s interest in these units described below. As part of APS s Clean Energy Commitment, APS has committed to cease using coal-fired generation as part of its portfolio of electricity generating resources, including Four Corners, by 2031. NTEC, a company formed by the Navajo Nation to own the mine that serves Four Corners and develop other energy projects, is the coal supplier for Four Corners. The Four Corners co-owners executed a long-term agreement for the supply of coal to Four Corners from July 2016 through 2031 (the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement ). El Paso, a 7% owner of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners, did not sign the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement. Under the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement, APS agreed to assume the 7% shortfall obligation. On February 17, 2015, APS and El Paso entered into 