Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2 Properties 30 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 Reserved 32 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 71 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 71 Item 9B Other Information 71 PART II I Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 71 Item 11 Executive Compensation 71 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 72 PART I V Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 73 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 76 SIGNATURES 77 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Insulet Corporation ( we or the Company ) is primarily engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of its proprietary Omnipod System, a continuous insulin delivery system for people with insulin-dependent diabetes, which we have been selling since 2005. The Omnipod System includes: the Omnipod Insulin Management System ( Omnipod ), the Omnipod DASH Insulin Management System ( Omnipod DASH ), our digital mobile Omnipod platform and the Omnipod 5 Automated Insulin Delivery System ( Omnipod 5 ). In addition to the diabetes market space, we have partnered with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to tailor the Omnipod System technology platform for the delivery of subcutaneous drugs across other therapeutic areas. Most of our drug delivery revenue consists of sales of pods to Amgen for use in the Neulasta Onpro kit, a delivery system for Amgen s Neulasta to help reduce the risk of infection after intense chemotherapy. Market Opportunity: Management of Diabetes Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for which there is no known cure. It is caused by the body s inability to produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin, which prevents the body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. In people with diabetes, blood glucose levels fluctuate between very high levels, a condition known as hyperglycemia, and very low levels, a condition called hypoglycemia. Hyperglycemia can lead to serious short-term complications, such as confusion, vomiting, dehydration, and loss of consciousness and long-term complications, such as blindness, kidney disease, nervous system disease, occlusive vascular diseases, stroke, cardiovascular disease, or death. Hypoglycemia can lead to confusion, loss of consciousness, or death. Diabetes is typically classified as either type 1 or type 2: Type 1 diabetes is characterized by the body s nearly complete inability to produce insulin. It is frequently diagnosed during childhood or adolescence. Individuals with type 1 diabetes require daily insulin therapy to survive. We estimate that approximately four to four and a half million people have type 1 diabetes in the countries we currently serve. Type 2 diabetes, the more common form, is characterized by the body s inability to either properly utilize insulin or produce enough insulin. Historically, type 2 diabetes has occurred in later adulthood, but its incidence is increasing among the younger population, due primarily to increasing obesity. Initially, many people with type 2 diabetes attempt to manage their diabetes with improvements in diet, exercise, and/or oral medications. As their diabetes advances, some individuals progress to multiple drug therapies, which often include insulin therapy. We estimate that approximately seven to seven and a half million people have insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes in the countries we currently serve. We estimate that approximately one-third of the type 1 diabetes population in the United States and even less of the international type 1 diabetes population use insulin pump therapy. An even smaller portion of the U.S. and international insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes population use insulin pump therapy. We believe these factors present a significant available market for the Omnipod System globally. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to both type 1 diabetes and insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes as insulin-dependent diabetes. Diabetes Management Challenges Diabetes is often frustrating and difficult for people to manage. Blood glucose levels can be affected by the carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness, impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption, and changes in the effects of insulin on the body. For people with insulin-dependent diabetes, many corrections, consisting of the administration of additional insulin or ingestion of additional carbohydrates, are needed throughout the day in order to maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges. Achieving this result can be very difficult with multiple daily injections of insulin. Individuals with diabetes attempting to control their blood glucose levels tightly to prevent the long-term complications associated with fluctuations in blood glucose levels are at greater risk for overcorrection and hypoglycemia. As a result, many people have difficulty managing their diabetes. Additionally, the time spent managing fluctuations in blood glucose levels and the fear associated with hypoglycemia can be incredibly stressful for individuals with diabetes and their families. Current Insulin Therapy People with insulin-dependent diabetes need a continuous supply of insulin, known as basal insulin, to provide for background metabolic needs. In addition to basal insulin, people with insulin-dependent diabetes require supplemental insulin, known as bolus insulin, to compensate for carbohydrates ingested during meals or snacks or for a high blood glucose level caused by 3 Table of Contents other physiological reasons. There are two primary types of insulin therapy practiced today: multiple daily injections ( MDI ) therapy using syringes or insulin pens and pump therapy using insulin pumps. MDI therapy involves the administration of fast-acting insulin before meals (bolus) to lower blood glucose levels to a healthy range. MDI therapy may also require a separate injection of a long-acting (basal) insulin, to control glucose levels between meals; typically, once or twice per day. By comparison, insulin pump therapy uses only fast-acting insulin to fulfill both mealtime (bolus) and background (basal) requirements. Insulin pump therapy allows individuals to customize their bolus and basal insulin doses to meet their insulin needs throughout the day and is intended to more closely resemble the physiologic function of a healthy pancreas. Insulin pumps perform continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion and typically use a programmable device and an infusion set to administer insulin into the body. Insulin pump therapy has been shown to provide numerous advantages relative to MDI therapy. For example, insulin pump therapy eliminates individual insulin injections (approximately five per day), delivers insulin more accurately and precisely than injections, often improves HbA1c (a common measure of blood glucose levels) over time, provides greater flexibility with meals, exercise, and daily schedules, and can reduce severe low blood glucose levels. We believe that these advantages, along with technological advancements, including the use of continuous glucose monitoring technology and automated insulin device ( AID ) algorithms, and increased awareness of insulin pump therapy will continue to generate demand for insulin pump devices. Our Solution: The Omnipod System The Omnipod System is a continuous insulin delivery system that provides all the benefits of insulin pump therapy in a unique way. We believe the Omnipod System s innovative proprietary design and differentiated features allow people with insulin-dependent diabetes to live their lives and manage their diabetes, with unprecedented freedom, comfort, convenience, and ease. The Omnipod System features two discreet and easy-to-use devices that eliminates the need for the external tubing required with conventional pumps: a small, lightweight, self-adhesive disposable tubeless Omnipod device ( Pod ) that the user fills with insulin and wears directly on the body. It can be worn in multiple locations, including the abdomen, hip, back of upper arm, upper thigh, or lower back. The Pod delivers precise, personalized doses of insulin into the body through a small flexible tube (called a cannula); and the Personal Diabetes Manager ( PDM ) or Controller, a wireless, handheld device that programs the Pod with the user s personalized insulin-delivery instructions and, wirelessly monitors the Pod s operation. Omnipod DASH was fully launched in the United States in 2019 and in our existing international markets in 2020 and 2021. It features a secure Bluetooth enabled Pod and PDM with a color touch screen user interface supported by smartphone connectivity, nightly automatic data uploads providing users and their clinicians with cloud access to data, and enhancements for pushing software updates wirelessly to users. In January 2022, we received clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration s ( FDA ) for the commercial distribution of Omnipod 5, which builds on our Omnipod DASH mobile platform. Omnipod 5 includes an AID algorithm that is located on 4 Table of Contents the Pod. The Pod integrates with a third-party continuous glucose monitor ( CGM ) to obtain glucose values. The embedded algorithm then predicts glucose levels into the future and automatically adjusts insulin dosing intended to reduce the occurrence of blood glucose highs and lows. The Pod is controllable by an Insulet-provided handheld device (Controller) or a user-downloaded Android app, which allows for full compatible smartphone control and currently integrates with a CGM manufactured by Dexcom, Inc. In February, we commenced a limited market release of Omnipod 5 in the U.S. The Omnipod System provides continuous insulin delivery at preset rates, eliminating the need for individual insulin injections. In addition, insulin delivery can be changed with the press of a button to adapt to snacks or unexpected changes in daily routine. The Omnipod System works like the pancreas of a person without diabetes by delivering insulin in two ways: A small, constant background supply of insulin is delivered automatically at a programmed rate, all day and night. An extra dose of insulin can be delivered when needed to match the carbohydrates in a snack or meal to correct high blood glucose. We have designed the Omnipod System to fit within the normal daily routines of users. The Omnipod System communicates wirelessly, provides for virtually pain-free automated cannula insertion, and eliminates the need for MDI therapy or the use of pump and tubing. The Pod can be worn for up to three days at a time and, because it is waterproof up to 25 feet, there is no need to remove it when showering, swimming, or performing other activities. The Omnipod System consists of just two devices as opposed to up to seven for tubed insulin pumps. As a result, the Omnipod System is easy to use, which reduces the training burden on healthcare professionals and users. We believe that the Omnipod System s overall ease of use, flexibility, and substantially lower training burden make it very attractive to people with insulin-dependent diabetes and allows healthcare professionals to prescribe pump therapy to a broader group of people with diabetes. Several publications over the past decade have found that compared to MDI therapy, the use of the Omnipod System by individuals with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes across all age groups is associated with good glycemic control and reduced frequency and severity of hypoglycemic episodes. These results are consistent with published literature of other continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion devices. In addition, research in adults with type 1 diabetes has found that compared to prior treatment modality, the use of the Omnipod System is associated with improved quality of life. We believe that this data is clinically meaningful to healthcare providers and provides support for the use of the Omnipod System in the treatment of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Paramount to our ability to deliver full compatible smartphone control is our commitment to cybersecurity and information security. Omnipod DASH is the first FDA-cleared insulin pump certified under the Diabetes Technology Society s Standard for Wireless Diabetes Device Security cybersecurity assurance standard and program, known as DTSec. This certification is a cybersecurity standard intended to raise confidence in the security of network connected medical devices through independent expert evaluation. In addition, Insulet s information security management system is International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) 27001 certified, which is the international standard for best practice in an information security management system globally. With the DTSec and ISO 27001 certifications, Insulet is globally recognized for incorporating the highest standards for cybersecurity and information security and safety, including secure data transfer between the Pod and PDM, as well as secure cloud storage. Insulet continues to advance the cybersecurity capabilities of our medical devices. Omnipod 5 is globally recognized for incorporating the highest standards for information and cyber security by design, which includes secure data transfer between the Pod and the Controller, as well as secure cloud storage. Omnipod 5 is certified by ISO 27001 and the U.K. Cyber Essentials. In addition, Omnipod 5 utilizes state-of-the-art authentication, encryption, and cybersecurity protection that enables the use of approved personal smartphone devices. We have partnered with Glooko Inc. ( Glooko ) to connect our Omnipod System user data with Glooko s comprehensive diabetes data management system (including Glooko and Diasend in selected regions). Glooko provides a cloud-based application for clinicians and users accessible through a kiosk, home computer, or a mobile application on the user s smartphone that provides users and their healthcare providers access to insulin delivery trends, blood glucose levels, and other integrated data. Third-Party Reimbursement In the United States, our products are sold directly to consumers, as well as wholesalers, private healthcare organizations, healthcare facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent retailers. These entities, and the Company in some cases, seek reimbursement from health insurance companies and/or government administrative payors. In the United States, consumers generally have commercial insurance, Medicare or Medicaid coverage that pays for the product. The Omnipod System s unique patented design allow us to provide pump therapy at a relatively low or no up-front investment, which reduces the risk to third- 5 Table of Contents party payors in the U.S. In certain international locations in which we sell through a distributor or intermediary, our distribution partners and local intermediaries establish appropriate reimbursement contracts with healthcare systems in those countries and provinces. Markets and Distribution Methods The Omnipod System is currently available in the following countries: Australia Finland Italy Sweden Austria France Kuwait Switzerland Belgium Germany Netherlands Turkey Canada Greece Norway United Kingdom Croatia Iceland Qatar United States Denmark Israel We sell the Omnipod System directly to consumers, through distribution partners and in the U.S. also through the pharmacy channel. For the year ended December 31, 2021, 76% of our Omnipod System sales were through intermediaries. The Omnipod System is also marketed to physicians. The percentages of total revenue for customers that represent 10% or more of total revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Distributor A 10% 11% * Distributor B 12% 10% 11% * Represents less than 10% of revenue for the period. Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on customer acquisition and retention to meet the user, clinician, and payor demands for the Omnipod System. We have a comprehensive sales and marketing approach, which communicates the benefits of the Omnipod System to users, physicians and providers. This includes three areas of focus: Building consumer awareness about the features and benefits that the Omnipod System provides to simplify diabetes management. Strengthening physician support by demonstrating the clinical evidence of how the Omnipod system improves outcomes and quality of life, and providing data and insights to physicians offering diabetes care. Providing payors with the clinical and economic justifications for why the Omnipod System offers unique value to the people whom they insure. Training We believe that training consumers on how to use the Omnipod System is an important factor to promote successful outcomes and customer retention. We have streamlined and standardized our training by developing improved online resources and increased our field clinician team to directly train new Omnipod System users. With the launch of Omnipod DASH, we created an online training program for Omnipod customers transitioning to Omnipod DASH or Omnipod 5. In addition, due to the challenges COVID-19 has presented, we have also been using virtual training to onboard new Omnipod customers transitioning from MDI. Our virtual capabilities have allowed us to continue to onboard new customers despite COVID-19 in a cost-effective manner. Our distributors and intermediaries have also implemented virtual training programs. Customer Support We seek to provide our customers with high quality customer support, from product ordering to insurance investigation, order fulfillment and ongoing support. Our customer support systems are integrated with our sales, reimbursement and billing processes, allowing us to provide customers with seamless and reliable support by telephone and through our website. Competition The diabetes medical device market is highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions. The Omnipod System competes for consumers in the insulin delivery market. Because most new Omnipod System users come from MDI therapy, which currently is the most prevalent method of insulin delivery, we believe that we 6 Table of Contents primarily compete with companies that provide products and supplies for MDI therapy. We also compete with companies in the insulin pump market, which today consists of tubed pump companies, including Medtronic MiniMed, a division of Medtronic public limited company ( Medtronic ), and Tandem Diabetes Care Inc. ( Tandem ). Medtronic historically has held the majority share of the tubed insulin pump market. The competitive landscape in our industry continues to undergo significant change. In addition to the established insulin pump competitors, several companies are working to develop and market new insulin pumps and smart pens. These companies are at various stages of development and the number of such companies often changes as they enter or exit the market. Our non-insulin drug delivery product line competes with drug delivery device companies such as West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. Research and Development Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on making improvements to the Omnipod System, including adding features and functionality that will deliver clinical outcomes, economic value, convenience, and simplicity to users. Throughout 2021, we worked to receive FDA clearance for Omnipod 5 for individuals aged six years and older with type 1 diabetes, which was obtained in January 2022. In 2021, we also completed our Omnipod 5 clinical study of pediatric users ages two to six years old, and in 2022, we filed for clearance of this expanded indication. We have also filed for CE Mark approval of Omnipod 5. During 2021, we completed our Omnipod 5 feasibility study for individuals with type 2 diabetes, and we plan to conduct additional studies with the goal of expanding Omnipod 5 s indications. In addition, we have a development agreement to integrate Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. s CGM with Omnipod 5 in the future, and are also working on developing an iOS app that could be utilized to control Omnipod 5 Pods. In addition to our focus on Omnipod 5, we are also working on innovation programs designed to drive: simplicity of user interaction with our systems; improved outcomes through algorithm advancements; insights and value from our growing datasets and analytics; and user choice of sensor and smartphone integrations. Manufacturing and Quality Assurance We believe a key contributing factor to the overall attractiveness and success of the Omnipod System is the disposable nature of the Pod. In order to manufacture sufficient volumes at high quality and achieve a cost-effective per unit production price for the Omnipod, we have designed the Omnipod System to be manufactured through automation. In 2019, we began producing product at our highly automated manufacturing facility in Acton, Massachusetts and in 2020 and 2021, we began producing on additional lines in this facility. In addition to increasing supply redundancy and adding capacity closer to our North American customer base to support the growth of our business, we expect that once the Acton facility is operating at full capacity, the highly automated assembly process will be able to produce a globally cost competitive product. We also produce our devices on manufacturing lines at a facility in Kunshan (Shanghai), China operated by a contract manufacturer. This contract manufacturing agreement expires in December 2022 and is subject to automatic renewal, unless canceled by either party under the terms of the contract. We have recently optimized our operations in China by consolidating our production in that region into this one location. Additionally, we plan to invest in a new manufacturing plant in another international location to further diversify globally and increase efficiency. We also continue to invest in supply chain efficiencies, including automation improvements at our suppliers and contract manufacturer. In addition, in January 2022, we acquired one of our suppliers to bring key intellectual property and expertise in-house, strengthen our production capabilities and mitigate supply chain risks. Raw Materials We use a broad range of raw materials in the assembly and manufacturing of the Omnipod System. We purchase all our raw materials and select components used in the manufacturing of our products from external suppliers. We purchase some supplies from a single or limited number of sources for reasons of proprietary know-how, quality assurance, cost-effectiveness, or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for a certain number of the components and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of the Omnipod System, including application-specific integrated circuit chips, Bluetooth low-energy chips, and other specialized parts. The design of certain components and sub-assemblies (including, in some instances, the raw materials used to manufacture them) is proprietary and the intellectual property rights may be owned exclusively by one party. In such cases, we are sole sourced with the supplier controlling the intellectual property rights. These sole sourced components are critical to the design and functionality of the Omnipod System. In the case 7 Table of Contents of sole sourced parts, we manage risk through holding inventory in-house and at the supplier to ensure continuity of supply and low risk of disruption. We purchase many of our components and sub-assemblies from manufacturers with whom we are at least dual sourced. We work closely with all suppliers to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Quality Assurance We utilize outside vendors for the supply of components, sub-assemblies, and various services used in the manufacture of the Omnipod System. Our outside vendors produce the components to our specifications, and they are audited periodically by our Quality Assurance Department to confirm conformity with the specifications, policies, and procedures for the Omnipod System. Our Quality Assurance Department also inspects and tests the Omnipod System at various steps in the manufacturing cycle to facilitate compliance with our specifications. We have received our ISO and Medical Device Single Audit Program certifications for our Quality Management System from BSI Group, an accredited Notified Body for CE Marking. Processes utilized in the manufacture, test, and release of the Omnipod System have been verified and validated as required by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. As a medical device manufacturer and distributor, our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, certain corresponding state agencies, and other regulatory bodies. Intellectual Property To maintain a competitive advantage, we believe we must develop and preserve the proprietary aspect of our technologies. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws, non-disclosure agreements, and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. We require our employees, consultants, and advisers to execute non-disclosure agreements in connection with their employment, consulting, or advisory relationships with us, where appropriate. We also require employees, consultants, and advisers who work on our products to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during their work with us that are developed using our property or relate to our business. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the Omnipod System or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Patents As of December 31, 2021, we had over 240 patents in the United States and in certain other countries, with expiration dates ranging from 2022 through 2041, and had over 240 patent applications pending. The issued patents and pending patent applications cover, among other things: the basic architecture of the Omnipod System, including the pump and the PDM/Controller; the Omnipod shape memory alloy drive system; the Omnipod System cannula insertion system; communication features between system components for the Omnipod System and next generation products; software, such as apps, for controlling the Omnipod System and next generation products; and various novel aspects of the Omnipod System, potential future generations of Omnipod Systems, and other mechanisms for the delivery of pharmaceuticals. Trademarks We have registered various trademarks associated with our business with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on the Principal Register and in other appropriate jurisdictions. Our trademarks include INSULET TM , OMNIPOD , OMNIPOD 5 Automated Insulin Delivery System, SIMPLIFY LIFE TM , Omnipod DASH , Omnipod DISPLAY , Omnipod VIEW TM , SmartAdjust TM , Pod Pals , Podder and PodderCentral . Government Regulation United States FDA Regulation The Omnipod System is a medical device subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and local regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, product design and development, preclinical and clinical testing, pre-market clearance or approval, manufacturing, labeling, product storage, advertising and promotion, sales and distribution, post-market adverse event reporting, post-market surveillance, complaint handling, repair or recall of products, and record keeping. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we seek to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval ( PMA ) from the FDA. Both the 510(k) clearance and PMA processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the Omnipod, Omnipod DASH, and Omnipod 5 Systems and expect that regulatory approval will be needed for some of our future products. In addition, we 8 Table of Contents may be required to obtain a new 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval for significant post-market modifications to our products. 510(k) Clearance . To obtain 510(k) clearance for any of our potential future devices (or for certain modifications to devices that have previously received 510(k) clearance), we must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device. The FDA s 510(k) clearance pathway generally takes three to 12 months from the date the application is completed but can take significantly longer. A 510(k) application must be supported by extensive data, including technical information, labeling, and potentially clinical data to meet any Special Controls and to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device to the FDA s satisfaction. After a medical device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or 