Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2 Properties 31 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 33 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 71 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 71 Item 9B Other Information 71 PART II I Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 71 Item 11 Executive Compensation 71 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 72 PART I V Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 73 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 76 SIGNATURES 77 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Insulet Corporation ( we or the Company ) is primarily engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of its proprietary Omnipod System, an innovative, discreet and easy-to-use continuous insulin delivery system for people with insulin-dependent diabetes, which we have been selling since 2005. The Omnipod System consists of the following: the Omnipod Insulin Management System ( Omnipod ) and the Omnipod DASH TM Insulin Management System ( Omnipod DASH or DASH ), our next generation digital mobile Omnipod platform. There are two primary types of insulin therapy practiced today: multiple daily injection ( MDI ) therapy using syringes or insulin pens; and pump therapy using insulin pumps. Insulin pumps are used to perform continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion and typically use a programmable device and an infusion set to administer insulin into the person s body. Insulin pump therapy has been shown to provide people with insulin-dependent diabetes with numerous advantages relative to MDI therapy. We estimate that approximately one-third of the Type 1 diabetes population in the United States and even less of the Type 1 diabetes population outside the United States use insulin pump therapy. An even smaller portion of the Type 2 diabetes population in and outside of the United States who are insulin-dependent use insulin pump therapy. We believe these factors present a significant available market for the Omnipod System globally. The Omnipod System features two discreet and easy-to-use devices: a small, lightweight, self-adhesive disposable tubeless Omnipod device ( Pod ) that is worn on the body for up to three days at a time, and its wireless companion, the handheld Personal Diabetes Manager ( PDM ). The Pod can be worn in multiple locations, including the abdomen, hip, back of upper arm, upper thigh or lower back and, because it is waterproof, there is no need to remove it when showering, swimming or performing other activities. The Omnipod System communicates wirelessly, provides for virtually pain-free automated cannula insertion and eliminates the need for traditional MDI therapy or the use of traditional pump and tubing. We believe that the Omnipod System s unique proprietary design and features allow people with insulin-dependent diabetes to manage their diabetes with unprecedented freedom, comfort, convenience and ease. Omnipod DASH, launched in 2019, features a secure Bluetooth enabled Pod and PDM with a color touch screen user interface supported by smartphone connectivity. In addition to the diabetes market space, we have partnered with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to tailor the Omnipod System technology platform for the delivery of subcutaneous drugs across other therapeutic areas. Most of our drug delivery revenue consists of sales of Pods to Amgen for use in the Neulasta Onpro kit, an innovative delivery system for Amgen s white blood cell booster to help reduce the risk of infection after intense chemotherapy. Market Opportunity: Management of Diabetes Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for which there is no known cure. It is caused by the body s inability to produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin, which prevents the body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. In people with diabetes, blood glucose levels fluctuate between very high levels, a condition known as hyperglycemia, and very low levels, a condition called hypoglycemia. Hyperglycemia can lead to serious short-term complications, such as confusion, vomiting, dehydration and loss of consciousness and long-term complications, such as blindness, kidney disease, nervous system disease, occlusive vascular diseases, stroke and cardiovascular disease, or death. Hypoglycemia can lead to confusion, loss of consciousness or death. Diabetes is typically classified as either Type 1 or Type 2: Type 1 diabetes is characterized by the body s nearly complete inability to produce insulin. It is frequently diagnosed during childhood or adolescence. Individuals with Type 1 diabetes require daily insulin therapy to survive. We estimate that three to four million people have Type 1 diabetes in the countries we currently serve. Type 2 diabetes, the more common form, is characterized by the body s inability to either properly utilize insulin or produce enough insulin. Historically, Type 2 diabetes has occurred in later adulthood, but its incidence is increasing among the younger population, due primarily to increasing obesity. Initially, many people with Type 2 diabetes attempt to manage their diabetes with improvements in diet, exercise and/or oral medications. As their diabetes advances, some individuals progress to multiple drug therapies, which often include insulin therapy. We estimate that approximately five to six million people have Type 2 diabetes in the countries we currently serve. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to both Type 1 diabetes and insulin-requiring Type 2 diabetes as insulin-dependent diabetes. 3 Table of Contents Diabetes Management Challenges Diabetes is often frustrating and difficult for people to manage. Blood glucose levels can be affected by the carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness or impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption and changes in the effects of insulin on the body. For people with insulin-dependent diabetes, many corrections, consisting of the administration of additional insulin or ingestion of additional carbohydrates, are needed throughout the day in order to maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges. Achieving this result can be very difficult without multiple daily injections of insulin or insulin pump therapy. Individuals with diabetes attempting to control their blood glucose levels tightly to prevent the long-term complications associated with fluctuations in blood glucose levels are at greater risk for overcorrection and the resultant hypoglycemia. As a result, many people have difficulty managing their diabetes. Additionally, the time spent managing fluctuations in blood glucose levels and the fear associated with hypoglycemia can be incredibly stressful for individuals with diabetes and their families. Current Insulin Therapy People with insulin-dependent diabetes need a continuous supply of insulin, known as basal insulin, to provide for background metabolic needs. In addition to basal insulin, people with insulin-dependent diabetes require supplemental insulin, known as bolus insulin, to compensate for carbohydrates ingested during meals or snacks or for a high blood glucose level. MDI therapy involves the administration of fast-acting insulin before meals (bolus) to lower blood glucose levels to a healthy range. MDI therapy may also require a separate injection of a long-acting (basal) insulin, to control glucose levels between meals; typically, once or twice per day. By comparison, insulin pump therapy uses only fast-acting insulin to fulfill both mealtime (bolus) and background (basal) requirements. Insulin pump therapy allows individuals to customize their bolus and basal insulin doses to meet their insulin needs throughout the day and is intended to more closely resemble the physiologic function of a healthy pancreas. Insulin pump therapy has been shown to provide numerous advantages relative to MDI therapy. For example, insulin pump therapy eliminates individual insulin injections (approximately five per day), delivers insulin more accurately and precisely than injections, often improves HbA1c (a common measure of blood glucose levels) over time, provides greater flexibility with meals, exercise and daily schedules, and can reduce severe low blood glucose levels. We believe that these distinct advantages, including technological advancements and increased awareness of insulin pump therapy as compared to other available insulin therapies will continue to generate demand for insulin pump devices. Our Solution: The Omnipod System The Omnipod System is an innovative continuous insulin delivery system that provides all the benefits of insulin pump therapy in a way no conventional insulin pump can. The Omnipod System s innovative design and differentiated features allow people with insulin-dependent diabetes to live their lives and manage their diabetes, with unprecedented freedom, comfort, convenience and ease. Pod Omnipod PDM Omnipod DASH PDM The Omnipod System is a discreet two-part design, the Pod and the PDM, that eliminates the need for the external tubing required with conventional pumps. 4 Table of Contents The Pod is a small, lightweight, self-adhesive device that the user fills with insulin and wears directly on the body. The Pod delivers precise, personalized doses of insulin into the body through a small flexible tube (called a cannula), based on instructions that the user programs into the Pod s wireless companion, the PDM. The PDM is a wireless, handheld device that programs the Pod with the user s personalized insulin-delivery instructions and, wirelessly monitors the Pod s operation. The Omnipod System provides continuous insulin delivery at preset rates, eliminating the need for individual insulin injections and the interruptions that come with them. In addition, insulin delivery can be changed with the press of a button to adapt to snacks or unexpected changes in daily routine. The Omnipod System works much like the pancreas of a person without diabetes by delivering insulin in two ways: A small, constant background supply of insulin is delivered automatically at a programmed rate, all day and night. An extra dose of insulin can be delivered when needed to match the carbohydrates in a meal or snacks or to correct high blood glucose. We have designed the Omnipod System to fit within the normal daily routines of users. The Omnipod System consists of just two devices as opposed to up to seven for conventional tubed insulin pumps. As a result, the Omnipod System is easy to use, which reduces the training burden on healthcare professionals and end-users. We believe that the Omnipod System s overall ease of use, flexibility and substantially lower training burden make it very attractive to people with insulin-dependent diabetes and helps redefine persons for whom insulin pump therapy is appropriate, allowing healthcare professionals to prescribe pump therapy to a broader group of people with diabetes. The Omnipod System s unique patented design and proprietary manufacturing process allow us to provide pump therapy at a relatively low or no up-front investment compared to conventional tubed insulin pumps. Our pricing model, which includes little or no initial investment, reduces the risk to third-party payors of significant up-front investments commonly associated with traditional tubed insulin pumps. Several publications over the past decade have found that compared to multiple daily injections therapy, the use of the Omnipod System by individuals with both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes across all age groups is associated with good glycemic control and reduced frequency and severity of hypoglycemic episodes. These results are consistent with other published literature of other continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion devices like the Omnipod System. In addition, research in adults with Type 1 diabetes has found that compared to prior treatment modality, the use of the Omnipod System is associated with improved quality of life. We believe that this data is clinically meaningful to healthcare providers and provides support for the use of the Omnipod System in the treatment of both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. We have partnered with Glooko Inc. ( Glooko ) to connect our Omnipod System user data with Glooko s comprehensive diabetes data management system (including Glooko and Diasend in selected regions). Glooko provides a cloud-based application for clinicians and users accessible through a kiosk, home computer or a mobile application on the user s smartphone that provides users and their health care providers access to insulin delivery trends, blood glucose levels and other integrated data. Third-Party Reimbursement In the United States, our products are sold directly to wholesalers, private healthcare organizations, healthcare facilities, mail order pharmacies and independent retailers. These entities, and the Company in some cases, seek reimbursement from health insurance companies and/or government administrative payors. The Omnipod System is also marketed and sold through distributors, as well as marketed to physicians and consumers. Our products are subject to regulatory changes and competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service and product performance. Consumers generally have commercial insurance, Medicare or Medicaid coverage that pays for the product. In Europe, in connection with of our assumption of direct operations in 2018, we have worked with local healthcare systems to transition coverage and payment processes for the Omnipod System as required. In certain non-U.S. locations in which we sell through a distributor or intermediary, our distribution partners and local intermediaries establish appropriate reimbursement contracts with healthcare systems in those countries and provinces. Markets and Distribution Methods The Omnipod System is currently available in the United States, Canada and in certain countries in Europe and the Middle East. We sell the Omnipod System directly to consumers, through distribution partners and most recently in the U.S. through the pharmacy channel. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , approximately 65% of our Omnipod System sales were through intermediaries. 5 Table of Contents Revenue for customers comprising more than 10% of total revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Amgen, Inc. * 12% 15% Ypsomed Distribution AG and affiliates * * 22% Cardinal Health Inc. and affiliates 11% 12% 11% * Represents less than 10% of revenue for the period. Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on customer retention and growing user, clinician and payor demand for the Omnipod System. We have a uniform sales and marketing approach, aligned across users, physicians and providers, to capitalize on the unique benefits of our Omnipod System technology. We have three areas of focus: Build consumer awareness about the features and benefits that the Omnipod System provides. Build physician support by increasing the clinical evidence that demonstrates the benefits that the Omnipod System provides and improving the monitoring data available to physicians providing diabetes care. Provide payors with the clinical and economic justification for why the Omnipod System provides a unique value to the people whom they insure. Training We believe that training consumers how to use the Omnipod System is an important factor to promote successful outcomes and customer retention. We have streamlined and standardized our training by developing improved online resources and increased our field clinician team to directly train new Omnipod System users. Customer Support We seek to provide our customers with high quality customer support, from product ordering to insurance investigation, order fulfillment and ongoing support. We have integrated our customer support systems with our sales, reimbursement and billing processes and offer support by telephone and through our website to provide customers with seamless and reliable support. Competition The diabetes medical device market is highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions. The Omnipod System competes for consumers in the insulin delivery market. Because most new Omnipod System end-users come from MDI therapy, which currently is the most prevalent method of insulin delivery, we believe that we primarily compete with companies that provide products and supplies for MDI therapy. To a smaller extent, we also compete with companies in the insulin pump market, which today consists of conventional tubed pump companies, including Medtronic MiniMed, a division of Medtronic public limited company ( Medtronic ), and Tandem Diabetes Care Inc. ( Tandem ). In addition, we compete with Roche Holdings Ltd. ( Roche ) and The Ypsomed Group ( Ypsomed ) outside the United States. Medtronic historically has held the majority share of the conventional tubed insulin pump market in the United States. The competitive landscape in our industry continues to undergo significant change. In addition to the established insulin pump competitors, several companies are working to develop and market new insulin pumps and smart pens. These companies are at various stages of development and the number of such companies often changes as they enter or exit the market. Our non-insulin drug delivery product line also competes with drug delivery device companies such as West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. Research and Development Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on making improvements to the Omnipod System, including adding features and functionality that will deliver economic value, convenience and simplicity to users, and improving our supply chain operations. These efforts include: Omnipod Horizon TM Automated Insulin Delivery System ( Omnipod Horizon ) We are developing an automated insulin delivery system that utilizes the DASH mobile platform to allow the Pod, our automated insulin delivery algorithm located on the Pod and the glucose sensor values obtained directly from a third party s continuous glucose monitor to predict glucose levels into the future and automatically adjust the insulin dose required to help reduce the occurrence of blood glucose highs and lows. We plan to launch Omnipod Horizon with a continuous glucose monitor manufactured by Dexcom, Inc.; however, we have signed a development agreement to integrate Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. s continuous glucose monitor in the future. Omnipod Horizon is intended to be controllable through a secure mobile app on the user s smartphone (i.e. 6 Table of Contents phone control ). In July 2018, we announced positive results from a clinical trial finding that Omnipod Horizon performed well and was safe for over five days of use in adults, adolescents and children with Type 1 diabetes and in December 2019, we began patient enrollment in our pivotal trial. Omnipod Horizon was granted designation in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration s ( FDA ) breakthrough device program, which is a program intended to help people have more timely access to certain medical devices and device-led combination products that provide for more effective treatment or diagnosis of life-threatening or irreversibly debilitating diseases or conditions by expediting the development and review process. We believe that recent and ongoing developments in the use of Continuous Glucose Monitoring technology and Automated Insulin Delivery algorithms in conjunction with insulin pump therapy will continue to provide people with insulin-dependent diabetes benefits that will make insulin pump therapy an even more attractive treatment alternative to existing MDI therapy. Paramount to our ability to deliver phone control is our commitment to cyber and information security. Omnipod DASH is the first FDA-cleared insulin pump certified under the Diabetes Technology Society s Standard for Wireless Diabetes Device Security cybersecurity assurance standard and program, known as DTSec. This certification is a cybersecurity standard intended to raise confidence in the security of network connected medical devices through independent expert evaluation. In addition, Omnipod DASH is International Standards Organization ( ISO ) 27001 certified, which is the international standard for best practice in an information security management system globally. With the DTSec and ISO 27001 certifications, Omnipod DASH is globally recognized for incorporating the highest standards for cyber and information security and safety, including secure data transfer between the Pod and PDM, as well as secure cloud storage. Manufacturing and Quality Assurance We believe a key contributing factor to the overall attractiveness and success of the Omnipod System is the disposable nature of the Pod. In order to manufacture sufficient volumes and achieve a cost-effective per unit production price for the Omnipod, we have designed the Omnipod System to be manufactured through automation. During 2019, we began producing product from our new highly automated manufacturing facility in Acton, Massachusetts. We expect that, following start up related activities, the new facility will allow us to lower our manufacturing costs, increase supply redundancy, add capacity closer to our North American customer base and support growth. To date, we have invested approximately $320 million in property, equipment and infrastructure related to the new facility. We expect to continue to expand our investment in this facility in 2020 to support the growth of our business. We also continue to produce our devices on varying degrees of semi-automated manufacturing lines at a facility in China, operated by a subsidiary of Flex Ltd. ( Flex ) pursuant to a multi-year materials supply agreement. The agreement expires in December 2022 and is subject to an automatic renewal thereafter, unless otherwise canceled by the parties under the contract terms. We continue to invest in improvements and efficiencies to our entire supply chain, including improvements in automation at our suppliers and contract manufacturer. Raw Materials We use a diverse and broad range of raw materials in the assembly and manufacturing of the Omnipod System. We purchase all our raw materials and select components used in the manufacturing of our products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase some supplies from a single or limited number of sources for reasons of proprietary know-how, quality assurance, cost-effectiveness, or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of the components and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of the Omnipod System, including with respect to application-specific integrated circuit chips, bluetooth low-energy chips and other specialized parts. The design of certain of these components and sub-assemblies (including, in some instances, the raw materials used to manufacture the same) is proprietary and the intellectual property rights with respect thereto may be owned exclusively by one party. Where such ownership exists, we are sole sourced with the supplier controlling such intellectual property rights. These sole sourced components are critical to the design and functionality of the Omnipod System. In the case of sole sourced parts, we manage risk through holding inventory ourselves and at the supplier to ensure continuity of supply and low risk of disruption. We purchase other components and sub-assemblies from manufacturers with whom we are at least dual sourced. Quality Assurance We utilize outside vendors for the supply of components, sub-assemblies and various services used in the manufacture of the Omnipod System. Our outside vendors produce the components to our specifications, and they are audited periodically by our Quality Assurance Department to confirm conformity with the specifications, policies and procedures for the Omnipod System. Our Quality Assurance Department also inspects and tests the Omnipod System at various steps in the manufacturing cycle to 7 Table of Contents facilitate compliance with our specifications. We have received approval of our Quality Management System from the BSI Group London, U.K., an accredited Notified Body for CE Marking and the ISO. Processes utilized in the manufacture, test and release of the Omnipod System have been verified and validated as required by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. As a medical device manufacturer and distributor, our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and certain corresponding state agencies. Intellectual Property To maintain a competitive advantage, we believe we must develop and preserve the proprietary aspect of our technologies. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, non-disclosure agreements and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. We require our employees, consultants and advisers to execute non-disclosure agreements in connection with their employment, consulting or advisory relationships with us, where appropriate. We also require employees, consultants and advisers who work on our products to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during their work with us that are developed using our property or relate to our business. Despite any measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the Omnipod System or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Patents As of December 31, 2019 , we had over 200 patents in the United States and in certain other countries, with expiration dates ranging from 2021 through 2042, and had over 100 patent applications pending. The issued patents and pending patent applications cover, among other things: the basic architecture of the Omnipod System, including the pump and the PDM; the Omnipod shape memory alloy drive system; the Omnipod System cannula insertion system; communication features between system components for the Omnipod System and next generation products; software, such as apps, for controlling the Omnipod System and next generation products; and various novel aspects of the Omnipod System, potential future generations of Omnipod Systems, and other mechanisms for the delivery of pharmaceuticals. Trademarks We have registered various trademarks associated with our business with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on the Principal Register and in other appropriate jurisdictions. Our trademarks include OMNIPOD , DASH TM , Omnipod CONTROL TM , Omnipod DISPLAY TM , Omnipod VIEW TM , OMNIPOD U-200 TM , OMNIPOD U-500 TM , HORIZON TM , Pod Pals TM and Podder TM . Government Regulation United States FDA Regulation The Omnipod System is a medical device subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and local regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, product design and development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, product storage, pre-market clearance or approval, advertising and promotion, sales and distribution, post-market adverse event reporting, post-market surveillance, complaint handling, repair or recall of products and record keeping. FDA s Pre-Market Notification 510(k) and Pre-Market Approval Requirements. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we seek to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval ( PMA ) from the FDA. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the Omnipod and Omnipod DASH Systems and expect that PMA approval may be needed for some of our future products. We may be required to obtain a new 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval for significant post-market modifications to our products. Both the 510(k) clearance and PMA processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees, unless an exemption is available. 510(k) Clearance . To obtain 510(k) clearance for any of our potential future devices (or for certain modifications to devices that have previously received 510(k) clearance), we must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device. The FDA s 510(k) clearance pathway generally takes three to twelve months from the date the application is completed but can take significantly longer. After a medical device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a significant change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, depending on the modification, could require a PMA application. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disag