Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 1C Cybersecurity 28 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6 Reserved 31 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 77 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 77 Item 9B Other Information 81 PART II I Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 81 Item 11 Executive Compensation 81 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 81 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 81 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 81 PART I V Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 86 SIGNATURES 87 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Insulet Corporation ( we or the Company ) is primarily engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of its proprietary continuous insulin delivery systems for people with insulin-dependent diabetes. The Omnipod platform includes: the Omnipod 5 Automated Insulin Delivery System ( Omnipod 5 ), the Omnipod DASH Insulin Management System ( Omnipod DASH ), the Omnipod Insulin Management System ( Classic Omnipod ) and our latest innovation, Omnipod GO TM , which received U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) clearance in 2023. We also produce pods for Amgen for use in the Neulasta Onpro kit, a delivery system for Amgen s Neulasta to help reduce the risk of infection after intense chemotherapy. Market Opportunity: Management of Diabetes Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for which there is no known cure. It is caused by the body s inability to produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin, which prevents the body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. In people with diabetes, blood glucose levels fluctuate between very high levels, a condition known as hyperglycemia, and very low levels, a condition called hypoglycemia. Hyperglycemia can lead to serious short-term complications, such as confusion, vomiting, dehydration, and loss of consciousness and long-term complications, such as blindness, kidney disease, nervous system disease, occlusive vascular diseases, stroke, cardiovascular disease, or death. Hypoglycemia can lead to confusion, loss of consciousness, or death. Diabetes is typically classified as either type 1 or type 2: Type 1 diabetes is characterized by the body s nearly complete inability to produce insulin. It is frequently diagnosed during childhood or adolescence. Individuals with type 1 diabetes require daily insulin therapy to survive. We estimate that approximately five million people have type 1 diabetes in the countries we currently serve. Type 2 diabetes, the more common form, is characterized by the body s inability to either properly utilize insulin or produce enough insulin. Historically, type 2 diabetes has occurred in later adulthood, but its incidence is increasing among the younger population, due primarily to increasing obesity. Initially, many people with type 2 diabetes attempt to manage their diabetes with improvements in diet, exercise, and/or medications, both oral and injectable, including SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP-1 drugs. As their diabetes advances, some individuals progress to multiple drug therapies, which often include insulin therapy. People with type 2 diabetes who take insulin either require intensive insulin therapy (typically multiple injections of insulin per day) or basal insulin (typically a single injection daily or weekly). We estimate that approximately six million people have insulin-intensive type 2 diabetes in the countries we currently serve and another three million people with type 2 diabetes require only long-acting insulin in the United States. We estimate that approximately 40% of the type 1 diabetes population in the United States and even less of the international type 1 diabetes population use insulin pump therapy. An even smaller portion of the U.S. and international insulin-intensive type 2 diabetes population use insulin pump therapy. We believe these factors present a significant available market for our Omnipod platform globally. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to both type 1 diabetes and insulin-intensive type 2 diabetes as insulin-dependent diabetes. Diabetes Management Challenges Diabetes is often frustrating and difficult for people to manage. Blood glucose levels can be affected by the carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness, impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption, and changes in the effects of insulin on the body. For people with insulin-dependent diabetes, many corrections, consisting of the administration of additional insulin or ingestion of additional carbohydrates, are needed throughout the day in order to maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges. Achieving this result can be very difficult with multiple daily injections of insulin. Individuals with diabetes attempting to control their blood glucose levels tightly to prevent the long-term complications associated with fluctuations in blood glucose levels are at greater risk for overcorrection and hypoglycemia. Additionally, the time spent managing fluctuations in blood glucose levels and the fear associated with hypoglycemia can be incredibly stressful for individuals with diabetes and their families. Current Insulin Therapy People with insulin-dependent diabetes need a continuous supply of insulin, known as basal insulin, for background metabolic needs. In addition to basal insulin, people with insulin-dependent diabetes require supplemental insulin, known as bolus insulin, 3 Table of Contents to compensate for carbohydrates ingested during meals or snacks or for a high blood glucose level caused by other physiological reasons. There are two primary types of insulin therapy practiced today: multiple daily injection ( MDI ) therapy using syringes or insulin pens and pump therapy using insulin pumps. MDI therapy involves injecting fast-acting insulin before meals (bolus) to lower blood glucose levels to a healthy range. MDI therapy may also require a separate injection of a long-acting (basal) insulin, to control glucose levels between meals; typically, once or twice per day. By comparison, insulin pump therapy uses only fast-acting insulin to fulfill both mealtime (bolus) and background (basal) requirements. Insulin pump therapy allows individuals to customize their bolus and basal insulin doses to meet their insulin needs throughout the day and is intended to more closely resemble the physiologic function of a healthy pancreas. Insulin pumps perform continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion and typically use a programmable device and an infusion set to administer insulin into the body. Insulin pump therapy has been shown to provide numerous advantages relative to MDI therapy. For example, insulin pump therapy eliminates individual insulin injections, delivers insulin more accurately and precisely than injections, often improves HbA1c (a common measure of blood glucose levels) over time, provides greater flexibility with meals, exercise, and daily schedules, and can reduce severe low blood glucose levels. We believe that these advantages, along with technological advancements, including the use of continuous glucose monitoring technology and automated insulin device ( AID ) algorithms, and increased awareness of insulin pump therapy will continue to generate demand for insulin pump devices. Our Solution: The Omnipod Platform The Omnipod platform offers continuous insulin delivery that provides all the benefits of insulin pump therapy in a unique way without the need for external tubing required with conventional pumps. The small, lightweight, self-adhesive disposable tubeless Omnipod device ( Pod ), can be worn in multiple locations, including the abdomen, hip, back of upper arm, upper thigh, or lower back, and delivers insulin into the body through a small flexible tube (called a cannula). We refer to this as Pod therapy. We believe the Omnipod platform s innovative proprietary design and differentiated features allow people with insulin-dependent diabetes to live their lives and manage their diabetes, with unprecedented freedom, comfort, convenience, and ease. Omnipod 5 Omnipod DASH Omnipod GO Omnipod 5 Omnipod 5, which builds on our Omnipod DASH platform, described below, was cleared by the FDA in January 2022. Our limited market release of Omnipod 5 in the United States commenced the following month, and in August 2022 we launched our U.S. full market release. In September 2022, we received CE Mark approval for Omnipod 5 under the European Union Medical Device Regulation ( MDR ) and in 2023, we launched Omnipod 5 in the United Kingdom and Germany. Omnipod 5 includes a proprietary AID algorithm embedded in the Pod. The Pod integrates with a third-party continuous glucose monitor ( CGM ) to obtain glucose values through wireless Bluetooth communication. The embedded algorithm utilizes these glucose values to predict glucose levels into the future and automatically adjusts insulin dosing intended to improve time-in-range and reduce the occurrence of blood glucose highs and lows. The user can also deliver insulin doses for snacks or meals or to correct high blood glucose through the system. The Pod is controllable by an Insulet-provided handheld device (Controller) or a user-downloaded Android app, which allows for full compatible smartphone control. In addition, in October 2023, we received FDA clearance for our Omnipod 5 App for iPhone, which allows for control using a compatible iOS smartphone. We expect to launch the iOS app in 2024. The Omnipod 5 Controller and the Omnipod 5 Android and iOS apps use cloud-based technology to wirelessly upload data using a built-in SIM card for cellular connectivity or from a secure Wi-Fi 4 Table of Contents connection if established. The Pod currently integrates with Dexcom, Inc. s G6 CGM and we recently launched a limited market release with Dexcom s G7 CGM. Additionally, we plan to launch Omnipod 5 with Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. s FreeStyle Libre 2 Plus sensor ( Libre 2 Plus ) in certain international markets in 2024. Omnipod DASH Omnipod DASH features a secure Bluetooth enabled Pod that is controlled by a smartphone-like Personal Diabetes Manager ( PDM ) with a color touch screen user interface. In the U.S., the PDM has Wi-Fi capabilities to enable automatic data uploads providing users and their clinicians with cloud access to data and enhancements for pushing software updates wirelessly to users. Omnipod DASH provides continuous insulin delivery at preset rates, eliminating the need for individual insulin injections. In addition, insulin delivery can be changed with the press of a button to adapt to snacks or unexpected changes in daily routine. Omnipod DASH delivers insulin in two ways: A small, constant background supply of insulin is delivered automatically at a programmed rate, all day and night. An extra dose of insulin can be delivered when needed to match the carbohydrates in a snack or meal to correct high blood glucose. We have designed Omnipod DASH to fit within the normal daily routines of users. Omnipod DASH communicates wirelessly, provides for virtually pain-free automated cannula insertion, and eliminates the need for MDI therapy or the use of pump and tubing. The Pod can be worn for up to three days at a time and, because it is waterproof (with an IP28 rating for up to 25 feet for 60 minutes), there is no need to remove it when showering, swimming, or performing other activities. Omnipod Classic Following the launch of Omnipod 5, the vast majority of our customer base is no longer using our Classic Omnipod product. Accordingly, we are phasing-out our Classic Omnipod product in the U.S. and no longer guarantee the availability of its supplies. Omnipod GO Omnipod GO is a standalone, wearable, insulin delivery system that provides a fixed rate of continuous rapid-acting insulin for 72 hours. Omnipod GO has been cleared by the FDA for use by people with type 2 diabetes age 18 and older who would typically take daily injections of long-lasting insulin. The newest addition to the Omnipod brand features a tubeless and waterproof Pod (with an IP28 rating for up to 25 feet for 60 minutes) which is offered in seven different pre-programmed daily rates, ranging from 10 to 40 units per day, and operates without the need for a handheld device to control the Pod. Omnipod GO has been cleared for use with the following U-100 insulins: NovoLog , Fiasp , Humalog , Admelog , and Lyumjev . The product was developed to serve people with type 2 diabetes earlier in their treatment journey by starting them on Pod therapy for their insulin delivery, rather than daily injections. As a patient progresses to requiring additional insulin, including basal and bolus, the transition from Omnipod GO to another Omnipod product will be a natural progression. We developed Omnipod GO with convenience in mind for both the primary care physician and the user, including with respect to prescribing, getting started, training and using the product. We are currently conducting a pilot program for Omnipod GO in the United States. Data Management We have partnered with Glooko Inc. ( Glooko ) to connect user data with Glooko s comprehensive diabetes data management system (including Glooko and Diasend in selected regions). Glooko provides a cloud-based application for clinicians and users accessible through a kiosk, home computer, or a mobile application on the user s smartphone that provides users and their healthcare providers access to insulin delivery trends, blood glucose levels, and other integrated data. Security Paramount to our ability to deliver full compatible smartphone control is our commitment to cybersecurity and information security. With certifications from the Diabetes Technology Society s Standard for Wireless Diabetes Device Security cybersecurity and assurance standard and program as well as from the International Organization for Standardization ( IOS ), Insulet is globally recognized for incorporating the highest standards for cybersecurity, information security and safety, including secure data transfer between the Pod and PDM, as well as secure cloud storage. See Item 1C. Cybersecurity for additional information. Third-Party Reimbursement In the United States, entities to whom our products are sold (including wholesalers, private healthcare organizations, healthcare facilities, mail order pharmacies, independent retailers, and consumers), and the Company in some cases, seek reimbursement from health insurance companies and/or government administrative payors. In the United States, consumers generally have commercial insurance, Medicare or Medicaid coverage that pays for the product. Our Omnipod platform s unique patented 5 Table of Contents design allows us to provide Pod therapy at a relatively low or no up-front investment, which reduces the risk to third-party payors in the U.S. In our international locations we sell either directly to consumers or through a distributor/intermediary. In all countries where we operate either Insulet or our partners establish appropriate reimbursement contracts with healthcare systems in those countries and provinces. Reimbursement structures vary by country and our unique offering allows us to provide Pod therapy in attractive pricing structures that reduce the risk to payors while expanding access. Markets and Distribution Methods Omnipod products are currently available in the following 25 countries: Australia Cyprus Greece Netherlands Switzerland Austria Denmark Iceland Norway Turkey Belgium Finland Israel Qatar United Arab Emirates Canada France Italy Saudi Arabia United Kingdom Croatia Germany Kuwait Sweden United States We sell Omnipod products directly to consumers, through distribution partners and in the U.S., also through the pharmacy channel. For the year ended December 31, 2023, 90% of Omnipod product sales globally were through intermediaries. The percentages of total revenue for customers that represent 10% or more of total revenue was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Distributor A 28% 19% * Distributor B 24% 16% * Distributor C 19% 17% 12% * Represents less than 10% of revenue for the period. Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on customer acquisition and retention to meet the user, clinician, and payor demands for our Omnipod products. We have a comprehensive sales and marketing approach, which communicates the benefits of the Omnipod platform to users, physicians and providers. This includes three areas of focus: Building consumer awareness about the features and benefits that Omnipod products provide to simplify diabetes management. Strengthening physician support by demonstrating clinical evidence of how Omnipod products improve outcomes and quality of life and providing data and insights to physicians offering diabetes care. Providing payors with the clinical and economic justifications for why Omnipod products offer unique value to the people they insure. Training We believe that training consumers on how to use Omnipod products is an important factor to promote successful outcomes and customer retention. We have streamlined and standardized our training by developing online resources and increased our field clinician team to directly train new users. We created an online training program for Omnipod customers transitioning to Omnipod DASH or Omnipod 5. In addition, our virtual training allows us to onboard new Omnipod customers transitioning from MDI in a cost-effective manner. Our distributors and intermediaries have also implemented virtual training programs. Customer Support We seek to provide our customers with high quality customer support, from product ordering to insurance investigation, order fulfillment and ongoing support. Our customer support systems are integrated with our sales, reimbursement and billing processes, allowing us to provide customers with reliable support by telephone and through our website. Competition The diabetes medical device market is highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions. Our Omnipod platform competes for consumers in the insulin delivery market. Because most new Omnipod users come from MDI therapy, which currently is the most prevalent method of insulin delivery, we believe that we primarily 6 Table of Contents compete with companies that provide products and supplies for MDI therapy. We also compete with companies in the insulin pump market, which today consists of tubed pump companies, including Medtronic MiniMed, a division of Medtronic public limited company ( Medtronic ), and Tandem Diabetes Care Inc. ( Tandem ). Medtronic historically has held the majority share of the tubed insulin pump market. The competitive landscape in our industry continues to undergo significant change. In addition to the established insulin pump competitors, several companies are working to develop and market new insulin pumps and smart pens. These companies are at various stages of development and the number of such companies often changes as they enter or exit the market. Research and Development Our innovation programs are designed to drive: simplicity of user interaction with our systems; improved outcomes through algorithm advancements; insights and value from our growing datasets and analytics; and user choice of sensor and smartphone integrations. In addition, our research and development efforts are primarily focused on making improvements to Omnipod 5, including adding features and functionality that will deliver increased economic value and convenience to users. In October 2023, we received FDA clearance for an iOS app that will enable control of Omnipod 5 Pods using an iPhone and plan to launch a limited market release in the U.S. in 2024. Further, we recently launched a limited market release for Omnipod 5 integration with Dexcom s G7 CGM in the United States. We also recently received CE mark approval under the MDR for the added compatibility of Libre 2 Plus with Omnipod 5 for individuals aged two years and older with type 1 diabetes and expect to launch a limited market release of Omnipod 5 with Libre 2 Plus in the U.K. and the Netherlands in 2024. We also continue to advance work to improve the Omnipod 5 algorithm and develop next-generation automated insulin delivery products. In 2023, we began our EVOLUTION feasibility trial in New Zealand to test potential enhancements to the Omnipod 5 algorithm in order to further drive simplicity of use. We have completed the first round of study, which included testing the system with both type 1 and type 2 users and are in the process of analyzing the data and making modifications for the next round of study. In December 2023, we completed enrollment in our pivotal trial for Omnipod 5 with the goal of expanding its indication to individuals with type 2 diabetes. We expect to complete the trial and submit our 510(k) application to the FDA by the end of 2024. Further, in April 2023, we received FDA clearance for Omnipod GO, a basal-only Pod for individuals with type 2 diabetes. Manufacturing and Quality Assurance In order to manufacture sufficient volumes of our Pods at high quality while still achieving a cost-effective per unit production price, we have designed our Pods to be manufactured through automation. In 2019, we began producing Pods at our highly automated manufacturing facility in Acton, Massachusetts to increase supply redundancy and add capacity closer to our North American customer base to support the growth of our business. We also produce our devices on manufacturing lines at a facility in China operated by a contract manufacturer. This contract manufacturing agreement expires in October 2025 and is subject to automatic renewal, unless canceled by either party under the terms of the contract. In December 2023, we completed construction of our new manufacturing plant in Malaysia to support our international expansion strategy and further ensure product supply. We expect to begin production at this facility in 2024. We also continue to invest in supply chain efficiencies, including automation improvements at our suppliers and contract manufacturer. Raw Materials We use a broad range of raw materials in the assembly and manufacturing of our products. We purchase our raw materials and select components used in the manufacturing of our products from external suppliers. We purchase some supplies from a single or limited number of sources for reasons of proprietary know-how, quality assurance, cost-effectiveness, or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for a certain number of the components and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products, including application-specific integrated circuit chips, Bluetooth low-energy chips, and other specialized parts. The design of certain components and sub-assemblies (including, in some instances, the raw materials used to manufacture them) is proprietary and the intellectual property rights may be owned exclusively by one party. In such cases, we are sole-sourced, with the supplier controlling the intellectual property rights. These sole-sourced components are critical to the design and functionality of our products. In the case of sole sourced parts, we manage risk 7 Table of Contents through holding inventory in-house and at the supplier to ensure continuity of supply and lower risk of disruption. We purchase many of our components and sub-assemblies from manufacturers with whom we are at least dual sourced. We work closely with all suppliers to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Quality Assurance We utilize outside vendors for the supply of components, sub-assemblies, and various services used in the manufacture of our products. Our outside vendors produce the components to our specifications, and they are audited periodically by our Quality Assurance Department to confirm conformity with the specifications, policies, and procedures for our products. Our Quality Assurance Department also inspects and tests our products at various steps in the manufacturing cycle to facilitate compliance with our specifications. We have received our ISO, European Union MDR, and Medical Device Single Audit Program certifications for our Quality Management System from BSI Group, an accredited Notified Body for CE Marking. Processes utilized in the manufacture, test, and release of our products have been verified and validated as required by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. As a medical device manufacturer and distributor, our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, certain corresponding state agencies, and other regulatory bodies. Intellectual Property To maintain a competitive advantage, we believe we must develop and preserve the proprietary aspect of our technologies. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws, non-disclosure agreements, and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. We require our employees, consultants, and advisers to execute non-disclosure agreements in connection with their employment, consulting, or advisory relationships with us, where appropriate. We also require employees, consultants, and advisers who work on our products to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during their work with us that are developed using our property or relate to our business. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Patents As of December 31, 2023, we had over 700 patents in the United States and in certain other countries, with expiration dates ranging from 2024 through 2043 and had over 500 patent applications pending. The issued patents and pending patent applications cover, among other things: the basic architecture of our Omnipod products, including the pump and the PDM/Controller; the Omnipod drive system; the Omnipod cannula insertion system; software, such as algorithms and apps, for controlling our current and next generation Omnipod products; and various novel aspects of our current and potential future generations of Omnipod products, and other mechanisms for the delivery of pharmaceuticals. Trademarks We have registered various trademarks associated with our business with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on the Principal Register and in other appropriate jurisdictions. Our trademarks include INSULET , OMNIPOD , SIMPLIFY LIFE , Omnipod DASH , Omnipod GO TM , Omnipod DISPLAY , Omnipod VIEW , SmartAdjust TM , Pod Pals , Podder , and PodderCentral . Government Regulation United States FDA Regulation Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and local regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, product design and development, preclinical and clinical testing, pre-market clearance or approval, manufacturing, labeling, product storage, advertising and promotion, sales and distribution, post-market adverse event reporting, post-market surveillance, complaint handling, repair or recall of products, and record keeping. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we seek to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval ( PMA ) from the FDA. A 510(k) pre-market notification filing must contain information establishing that the device to be sold is substantially equivalent to a device commercially distributed prior to May 28, 1976 or to a device that has been determined by the FDA to be substantially equivalent. Both the 510(k) clearance and PMA processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for Classic Omnipod, Omnipod DASH, Omnipod 5, and Omnipod GO and expect that regulatory clearances or approvals will be needed 8 Table of Contents for some of our future products. In addition, we may be required to obtain a new 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval for significant post-market modifications to our products. Clinical Trials. Clinical trials are almost always required to support a PMA application and may also be required to support 510(k) submissions. If the device presents a significant risk to human health as defined by the FDA, the FDA requires the device sponsor to submit an investigational device exemption ( IDE ) and obtain IDE approval prior to commencing human clinical trials. The IDE must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. Clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once an IDE is approved by the FDA and the appropriate Institutional Review Board ( IRB ) at each clinical trial site. If the product is deemed a non-si