Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 84 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 84 Item 9B. Other Information 87 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 87 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 87 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 87 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 87 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 88 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 88 Index to Exhibits and Signatures PART I. Item 1. Business General Pool Corporation (the Company , which may be referred to as we, us or our ), a member of the S P 500 Index, is the world s largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products and is one of the leading distributors of irrigation and landscape products in the United States. Our industry is highly fragmented, and as such, we add considerable value to the industry by purchasing products from a large number of manufacturers and then distributing the products to our customer base on conditions that are more favorable than our customers could obtain on their own. As of December 31, 2021, we operated 410 sales centers in North America, Europe and Australia through our five distribution networks: SCP Distributors (SCP); Superior Pool Products (Superior); Horizon Distributors (Horizon); National Pool Tile (NPT); and Sun Wholesale Supply, Inc. (Sun Wholesale). Our Industry We believe that the swimming pool industry has room for continued growth from the increased penetration of new pools. Significant growth opportunities also reside with pool remodel and pool equipment replacement activities due to the aging of the installed base of swimming pools, technological advancements and the development of environmentally sustainable, energy-efficient and more aesthetically attractive products. Additionally, the desire for consumers to enhance their outdoor living spaces with hardscapes, lighting and outdoor kitchens also promotes growth in this area. Favorable demographic and socioeconomic trends have positively impacted our industry, and we believe these trends will continue to do so in the long term. These favorable trends include the following: long-term growth in housing units in warmer markets due to the population migration toward the southern United States, where use of the outdoor home environment is more prevalent and extends longer throughout the year; increased homeowner spending on outdoor living spaces for relaxation and entertainment; consumers bundling the purchase of a swimming pool and other products, with new irrigation systems, landscaping and improvements to outdoor living spaces often being key components to both pool installations and remodels; consumers using more automation and control products, higher quality materials and other pool features that add to our sales opportunities over time; consumers increasing focus on environmentally sustainable, energy-efficient products; and increased consumer spending driven by stay-at-home and remote work trends as homeowners seek to create attractive areas in their backyards as an extension of their home space. Almost 60% of consumer spending in the pool industry is for maintenance and minor repair of existing swimming pools. Maintaining a proper sanitization balance and the related upkeep and repair of swimming pool equipment, such as pumps, heaters, filters and safety equipment, creates a non-discretionary demand for pool chemicals, equipment and other related parts and supplies. We also believe cosmetic considerations such as a pool s appearance and the overall look of backyard environments create an ongoing demand for other maintenance-related goods and certain discretionary products. We believe that the recurring nature of the maintenance and repair market has historically helped maintain a relatively consistent rate of industry growth. This characteristic has helped cushion the negative impact on revenues in periods when unfavorable economic conditions and softness in the housing market adversely impacted consumer discretionary spending including pool construction and major replacement and refurbishment activities. 1 The following table reflects growth in the domestic installed base of in-ground swimming pools over the past 11 years (based on Company estimates and information from 2020 P.K. Data, Inc. reports): The replacement and refurbishment market currently accounts for 20% to 25% of consumer spending in the pool industry. The activity in this market, which includes major swimming pool remodeling, is driven by the aging of the installed base of pools. The timing of these types of expenditures is more sensitive to economic factors including home values, single-family home sales and consumer confidence that impact consumer spending compared to the maintenance and minor repair market. New swimming pool construction comprises 15% to 20% of consumer spending in the pool industry. The demand for new pools is driven by the perceived benefits of pool ownership including relaxation, entertainment, family activity, exercise and convenience. The industry competes for new pool sales against other discretionary consumer purchases such as kitchen and bathroom remodeling, boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and vacations. The industry is also affected by other factors including, but not limited to, consumer preferences or attitudes toward pool and related outdoor living products for aesthetic, environmental, safety or other reasons. The irrigation and landscape industry shares many characteristics with the pool industry, and we believe that it will realize similar long-term growth rates. Irrigation system installations often occur in tandem with new single-family home construction making it more susceptible to economic variables that drive new home sales. However, the landscape industry offers similar maintenance-related growth opportunities as the swimming pool industry. Product offerings such as chemicals and fertilizers, power equipment and related repair and maintenance services offer recurring revenue streams in an industry otherwise closely tied to the housing market. The irrigation and landscape distribution business serves both residential and commercial markets, with the majority of sales related to the residential market. Within the United States market, we believe that irrigation accounts for approximately 35% of total spending in the industry, with the remaining 65% of spending related to landscape maintenance products, power equipment, hardscapes and specialty outdoor products and accessories. 2 Our NPT network primarily serves the swimming pool market but does provide some overlap with the irrigation and landscape industries as we offer our market-leading brand of pool tile, composite pool finish products and hardscapes. As more consumers create and enhance outdoor living areas and continue to invest in their outdoor environment, we believe we can focus our resources to address such demand, while leveraging our existing pool and irrigation and landscape customer base. We feel the development of our NPT network is a natural extension of our distribution model. In addition to our 20 standalone NPT sales centers, we currently have over 100 SCP and Superior sales centers that feature consumer showrooms where landscape and swimming pool contractors, as well as homeowners, can view and select pool components including pool tile, decking materials and interior pool finishes in various styles and grades, and serve as stocking locations for our NPT branded products. We also offer virtual tools for homeowners to select and design their pool and outdoor environments, working with their chosen contractors to install these products. Our NPT Backyard app allows our customers to virtually design, customize and view a pool in their own backyard within seconds. We believe our showrooms, local stocking of products and virtual support provide us with a competitive advantage in these categories. Given the more discretionary nature of these products, this business is more sensitive to external market factors compared to our business overall. Economic Environment Certain trends in the housing market, the availability of consumer credit and general economic conditions (as commonly measured by Gross Domestic Product or GDP) affect our industry, particularly new pool and irrigation system starts as well as the timing and extent of pool refurbishments, equipment replacement, landscaping projects and outdoor living space renovations. Consumers typically spend more on new pools, refurbishment and replacement when general economic conditions are strong. We believe that over the long term, single-family housing turnover and home value appreciation may correlate with demand for new pool construction, with higher rates of home turnover and appreciation having a positive impact on new pool starts over time. We also believe that homeowners good economic standing and access to consumer credit are critical factors enabling the purchase of new swimming pools and irrigation systems. Similar to other discretionary purchases, replacement and refurbishment activities are more heavily impacted by economic factors such as consumer confidence, GDP and employment levels. Contractor labor availability has also become an issue in recent years, limiting our customers ability to fully meet consumer construction and renovation demand. Labor supply constraints have intensified during the COVID-19 pandemic, which has limited our customers ability to meet increased demand for new pool construction and renovation. Over the past decade, homeowners investing in their homes, including backyard renovations, have flourished. Steady increases in home values and lack of affordable new homes have prompted homeowners to stay in their homes longer and upgrade their home environments, including their backyards. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic over the past couple of years, many families spent more time at home and sought out opportunities to create or expand home-based outdoor living and entertainment spaces, which resulted in an increase in new pool construction and greater expenditures for maintenance and remodeling products. We estimate that new pool construction increased to approximately 120,000 units in 2021 from 96,000 units in 2020, representing a 25% increase in new pool construction. We expect that new pool and irrigation construction levels will continue to grow incrementally (subject to labor availability), but we believe that consumer investments in outdoor living spaces will generate greater growth over the next several years as backyards more increasingly become an extension of consumers home space. Although some constraints exist around residential construction activities, we believe that we are well positioned to take advantage of both the market expansion and the inherent long-term growth opportunities in our industry. Additionally, regulation passed by the U.S. Department of Energy, which became effective in July 2021, mandates all new motors and pumps for swimming pools must meet certain compliance regulations. We believe that this mandate, coupled with additional product developments and technological advancements as consumers focus on more environmentally sustainable and energy-efficient products, offers further growth opportunities over the next few years. We estimate that price inflation has averaged 1% to 2% annually in our industry over the past ten years. We generally pass industry price increases through our supply chain and may make strategic volume inventory purchases ahead of vendor price increases in order to obtain favorable pricing. Recently, supply chain interruptions, production shutdowns and weather-related events have resulted in increased inflation as higher costs to develop finished products are being passed down to consumers. Our results in 2021 benefited from above-average inflationary product cost increases of approximately 7% to 8%. We expect this trend to continue into 2022. We expect sales growth in 2022 to be higher due to impacts from inflationary product cost increases of approximately 9% to 10%. 3 Business Strategy and Growth Our mission is to provide exceptional value to our customers and suppliers, creating exceptional return to our shareholders, while providing exceptional opportunities to our employees. Our core strategies are as follows: to promote the growth of our industry; to promote the growth of our customers businesses; and to continuously strive to operate more effectively. We promote the growth of our industry through various advertising and promotional programs intended to raise consumer awareness of the benefits and affordability of pool ownership, the ease of pool maintenance and the many ways in which a pool and the surrounding spaces may be enjoyed beyond swimming. These programs include digital and media advertising, industry-oriented website development such as www.swimmingpool.com , www.hottubs.com and www.nptpool.com , social media platforms and other digital marketing initiatives, including our NPT Backyard mobile app. We use these programs as tools to educate consumers and lead prospective pool owners to our customers. We promote the growth of our customers businesses by offering comprehensive support programs that include promotional tools and marketing support to help our customers generate increased sales. Our uniquely tailored programs include such features as customer lead generation, personalized websites, brochures, direct mail, marketing campaigns and business development training. As a customer service, we also provide certain retail store customers assistance with all aspects of their business, including site selection, store layout and design, product merchandising, business management system implementation, comprehensive product offering selections and efficient ordering and inventory management processes. In addition to these programs, we feature consumer showrooms in over 100 of our sales centers and host our annual Retail Summit to educate our customers about product offerings and the overall industry, although we did not host our annual Retail Summit over the past two years due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We also act as a day-to-day resource by offering product and market expertise to serve our customers unique needs. In addition to our efforts aimed at industry and customer growth, we strive to operate more effectively by continuously focusing on improvements in our operations, which we define as capacity creation. We aim to create capacity with business to business development tools and execution to ensure best-in-class service and value creation for our customers and suppliers. In particular, we have developed the Pool360 and Horizon 24/7 platforms that help our customers be more productive by allowing them to get pricing, check availability, enter orders and make payments online while leveraging our customer service staff resources, particularly during peak business periods. These tools not only offer real-time integration into our enterprise resource planning system, creating efficiencies in our business processes as well, but they also provide our customers graphical catalog presentation in the same platform. Our BlueStreak mobile ordering platform enables our sales associates to process orders faster, often eliminating the need for customers to get out of their vehicles. We are also actively making improvements to our sales centers and warehouses, including improved showroom layouts, sales center merchandising, bin replenishment and velocity slotting. Velocity slotting uses technology to identify fast moving, high velocity items, which are then color-coded and placed in an easily accessible location to create efficiencies for both our employees and customers. In addition to these initiatives, we strive to expand our Pool Corporation-branded products and exclusive brand offerings. We have grown our distribution networks through new sales center openings, acquisitions and the expansion of existing sales centers depending on our market presence and capacity. In 2021, we have grown our distribution network through the acquisition of the Sun Wholesale distribution network. Sun Wholesale distributes swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products domestically, primarily servicing Pinch A Penny, Inc. franchisees. Pinch A Penny, Inc. is a franchisor of pool and outdoor living-related specialty retail stores in the United States with approximately 260 independently owned and operated franchised stores in Florida, Texas, Louisiana, Alabama and Georgia. Sun Wholesale also owns and operates a specialty chemical packaging operation. For additional information regarding our new sales center openings, acquisitions and closures/consolidations, see Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8, Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form 10-K. We plan to continue to make strategic acquisitions and open new sales centers to further penetrate existing markets and expand into both new geographic markets and new product categories. We believe that our high customer service levels and expanded product offerings have enabled us to gain market share historically. Going forward, we expect to realize sales growth through market share gains and continued expansion of our product offerings. 4 Customers and Products We serve roughly 120,000 customers. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our sales in 2021. Most of our customers are small, family-owned businesses with relatively limited capital resources. Most of these businesses provide labor and technical services to the end consumer and operate as independent contractors and specialty retailers employing no more than ten employees (in many cases, working alone or with a limited crew). These customers also buy from other distributors, mass merchants, home stores and certain specialty and internet retailers. We provide extended payment terms to qualified customers for sales under early buy programs. The extended terms usually require payments in equal installments during the second quarter of each year. See Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts for additional information. We sell our products primarily to the following types of customers: swimming pool remodelers and builders; specialty retailers that sell swimming pool supplies; swimming pool repair and service businesses; irrigation construction and landscape maintenance contractors; and commercial customers who service large commercial installations such as hotels, universities and community recreational facilities. We conduct our operations through 410 sales centers in North America, Europe and Australia. Our primary markets, with the highest concentration of swimming pools, are California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, collectively representing approximately 53% of our 2021 net sales. In 2021, we generated approximately 94% of our sales in North America (including Canada and Mexico), 5% in Europe and 1% in Australia. While we continue to expand both domestically and internationally, we expect this geographic mix to be similar over the next few years. References to product line and product category data throughout this Form 10-K generally reflect data related to the North American swimming pool market, as it is more readily available for analysis and represents the largest component of our operations. We use a combination of local and international sales and marketing personnel to promote the growth of our business and develop and strengthen our customers businesses. Our sales and marketing personnel focus on developing customer programs and promotional activities, creating and enhancing sales management tools and providing product and market expertise. Our local sales personnel work from our sales centers and are charged with understanding and meeting our customers specific needs. We offer our customers more than 200,000 manufacturer and Pool Corporation-branded products. We believe that our selection of pool equipment, supplies, chemicals, replacement parts, irrigation and related products and other pool construction and recreational products is the most comprehensive in the industry. We sell the following types of products: maintenance products, such as chemicals, supplies and pool accessories; repair and replacement parts for pool equipment, such as cleaners, filters, heaters, pumps and lights; fiberglass pools and hot tubs and packaged pool kits including walls, liners, braces and coping for in-ground and above-ground pools; pool equipment and components for new pool construction and the remodeling of existing pools; irrigation and related products, including irrigation system components and professional lawn care equipment and supplies; building materials, such as concrete, plumbing and electrical components, both functional and decorative pool surfaces, decking materials, tile, hardscapes and natural stone, used for pool installations and remodeling; commercial products, including American Society of Material Engineers heaters, safety equipment and commercial pumps and filters; and other pool construction and recreational products, which consist of a number of product categories and include discretionary recreational and related outdoor living products, such as grills and components for outdoor kitchens. We currently have over 600 product lines and approximately 50 product categories. Based on our 2021 product classifications, sales for our pool and hot tub chemicals product category represented approximately 9% of total net sales for 2021, 10% of total net sales in 2020 and 12% of total net sales in 2019. No other product categories accounted for 10% or more of total net sales in any of the last three fiscal years. 5 We continue to identify new related product categories, and we typically introduce new categories each year in select markets. We then evaluate the performance in these markets and focus on those product categories that we believe exhibit the best long-term growth potential. We expect to realize continued sales growth for these types of product offerings by expanding the number of locations that offer these products, increasing the number of products offered at certain locations and continuing a modest broadening of these product offerings on a company-wide basis. New product technology provides opportunities not only for improved energy-efficiency but also new enticements for leisure activities. Smart controls provide growth opportunities as most existing swimming pools run on mechanical time clocks. Major equipment manufacturers have developed and will continue to develop more retrofit kits that allow homeowners to interact with their pools or hot tubs through their smartphones. Robotic cleaners offer consumers a more efficient option for maintaining their swimming pools. We see each of these developments as significant growth opportunities. We offer a growing selection of energy-efficient and environmentally preferred products, which supports sustainability and helps our customers save energy, water and money. Our green technology products include variable speed pumps, LED pool and hot tub lights and high-efficiency heat pumps. Our Horizon sales centers offer organic fertilizers, organic pesticides, and irrigation products that reduce water usage, allowing our customers to have less of an impact on freshwater reserves. Regulation passed by the U.S. Department of Energy, which became effective in July 2021, mandates all new motors and pumps sold for swimming pools must meet certain compliance regulations. As the regulation has only recently become effective, the impact from this change through the end of 2021 season was not significant. Over the last several years, we have increased our product offerings and service abilities related to commercial swimming pools. We consider the commercial market to be a key growth opportunity as we focus more attention on providing products to customers who service large commercial installations such as hotels, condominiums, apartment complexes, universities and community recreational facilities. We continue to leverage our existing networks and relationships to grow this market. Sales to commercial customers declined in 2020 due to COVID-19 related closures and the decline in both business and leisure travel. In 2021, commercial sales have accelerated as business and leisure travel has increased and public facilities reopened following COVID-19 related closures in the prior year. In 2021, the sale of maintenance and minor repair products (non-discretionary) accounted for almost 60% of our sales and gross profits, while just over 40% of our sales and gross profits were derived from the refurbishment, replacement, construction and installation (equipment, materials, plumbing, electrical, etc.) of swimming pools (partially discretionary). During the economic downturn, which spanned from late 2006 to early 2010 and reached its low point in 2009, sales of maintenance and minor repair products had increased to approximately 70% of our sales and gross profits due to the significant declines in new pool construction and deferred remodeling and replacement activity. The current trend reflects a partial shift back toward a greater percentage of our sales coming from major refurbishment and replacement products due to the recovery of these activities since levels reached their historic low point in 2009. Since 2009, we have experienced product and customer mix changes, including a shift in consumer spending to some higher value, lower margin products such as variable speed pumps and high efficiency heaters. We expect continued demand for these products, but believe our efforts in various pricing and sourcing initiatives, including growth in our higher margin private label and exclusive products (PLEX) and our expansion of building materials product offerings, have helped offset these gross margin declines. Operating Strategy We distribute swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products domestically through our SCP and Superior networks and internationally through our SCP network. We adopted the strategy of operating two distinct distribution networks within the U.S. swimming pool market primarily to offer our customers a choice of distinctive product selections, locations and service personnel. We distribute irrigation and related products through our Horizon network and tile, decking materials and interior pool finish products through our NPT network, as well as through SCP and Superior networks. In December 2021, we acquired Sun Wholesale., which distributes swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products domestically, primarily servicing independently owned and operated Pinch A Penny, Inc. franchise locations. Going forward, we expect to expand our franchise operations through additional locations of Pinch A Penny franchised stores. Sun Wholesale Supply, Inc. also owns and operates a specialty chemical packaging operation. We evaluate our sales centers based on their performance relative to predetermined standards that include both financial and operational measures. Our corporate support groups provide our field operations with various services, such as developing and coordinating customer and vendor related programs, human resources support, information systems support and expert resources to help them achieve their goals. We believe our incentive programs and feedback tools, along with the competitive nature of our internal networks, stimulate and enhance employee performance. 6 Distribution Our sales centers are located within population centers near customer concentrations, typically in industrial, commercial or mixed-use zones. Customers may pick up products at any sales center location, or we may deliver products to their premises or job sites via our trucks or third-party carriers. Our sales centers maintain well-stocked inventories to meet our customers immediate needs. We utilize warehouse management technology to optimize receiving, inventory control, picking, packing and shipping functions. For additional information regarding our inventory management, see Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Inventory Obsolescence, of this Form 10-K. We also operate four centralized shipping locations (CSLs) in the United States that redistribute products we purchase in bulk quantities to our sales centers or, in some cases, directly to customers. Our CSLs are regional locations that carry a wide range of traditional swimming pool, irrigation and landscape products and related construction products. Purchasing and Suppliers We enjoy good relationships with our suppliers, who generally offer competitive pricing, return policies and prom