Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 13 Item 2. Properties 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 15 Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6. [Reserved] 16 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 16 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 29 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 72 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 72 Item 9B. Other Information 72 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 72 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 72 Item 11. Executive Compensation 72 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 73 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 73 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 73 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76 Signatures 77 Note on Incorporation by Reference Throughout this report, various information and data are incorporated by reference from the Company s 2021 Annual Report (hereinafter referred to as the Annual Report ). Any reference in this report to disclosures in the Annual Report shall constitute incorporation by reference only of that specific information and data into this Form 10-K. 2021 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND 10-K 2 Part I Item 1. Business PPG Industries, Inc. manufactures and distributes a broad range of paints, coatings and specialty materials. PPG was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883. PPG s vision is to be the world s leading coatings company by consistently delivering high-quality, innovative and sustainable solutions that customers trust to protect and beautify their products and surroundings. PPG has a proud heritage and demonstrated commitment to innovation, sustainability, community engagement and developing leading-edge paint, coatings and specialty materials technologies. Through dedication and industry-leading expertise, we solve our customers biggest challenges, collaborating closely to find the right path forward. PPG is a global leader, supplying customers in construction, consumer products, industrial and transportation markets and aftermarkets with manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates in more than 75 countries. PPG supplies coatings and specialty materials to customers in a wide array of end-uses, including industrial equipment and components; packaging material; aircraft and marine equipment; automotive original equipment; automotive refinish; pavement marking products; as well as coatings for other industrial and consumer products. PPG also serves commercial and residential new build and maintenance customers by supplying coatings to painting and maintenance contractors and directly to consumers for decoration and maintenance. The coatings industry is highly competitive and consists of several large firms with global presence and many firms supplying local or regional markets. PPG competes in its primary markets with the world s largest coatings companies, most of which have global operations, and many regional coatings companies. PPG s business is comprised of two reportable business segments: Performance Coatings and Industrial Coatings as described below: 2021 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K 3 PERFORMANCE COATINGS Strategic Business Unit Products Primary End-uses Main Distribution Methods Primary Brands Aerospace Coatings Coatings, sealants, transparencies, transparent armor, adhesives, engineered materials, packaging and chemical management services for the aerospace industry Commercial, military, regional jet and general aviation aircraft Direct to customers and company-owned distribution network PPG Architectural Coatings Americas and Asia Pacific Paints, wood stains, adhesives and purchased sundries Painting and maintenance contractors and consumers for decoration and maintenance of residential and commercial building structures Company-owned stores, home centers and other regional or national consumer retail outlets, paint dealers, concessionaires, independent distributors and direct to consumers PPG , GLIDDEN , COMEX , OLYMPIC , DULUX (in Canada), PPG PITTSBURGH PAINTS , MULCO , FLOOD , LIQUID NAILS , SICO , RENNER , TAUBMANS , WHITE KNIGHT , BRISTOL , HOMAX among others Architectural Coatings Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) SIGMA , HISTOR , SEIGNEURIE , GUITTET , PEINTURES GAUTHIER , RIPOLIN , JOHNSTONE S , LEYLAND , PRIMALEX , DEKORAL , TRILAK , PROMINENT PAINTS , GORI , BONDEX , DANKE! and TIKKURILA among others Automotive Refinish Coatings Coatings, solvents, adhesives, sealants, purchased sundries, software Automotive and commercial transport/fleet repair and refurbishing, light industrial coatings and specialty coatings for signs Independent distributors and direct to customers PPG , SEM , SPRINT Protective and Marine Coatings Coatings and finishes for the protection of metals and structures Metal fabricators, heavy duty maintenance contractors and manufacturers of ships, bridges and rail cars Direct to customers, company-owned architectural coatings stores, independent distributors and concessionaires PPG Traffic Solutions Paints, thermoplastics, pavement marking products and other advanced technologies for pavement marking Government, commercial infrastructure, painting and maintenance contractors Direct to customers, government agencies and independent distributors Ennis-Flint Segment Overview This reportable business segment primarily supplies a variety of protective and decorative coatings, sealants and finishes along with pavement marking products, paint strippers, stains and related chemicals, as well as transparencies and transparent armor. Major Competitive Factors Product performance, technology, quality, technical and customer service, price, customer productivity, distribution and brand recognition Global Competitors Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems Ltd., BASF Corporation, Benjamin Moore, Hempel A/S, Kansai Paints, the Jotun Group, Masco Corporation, Nippon Paint, RPM International Inc, the Sherwin-Williams Company and 3M Company 2021 Strategic Acquisitions Tikkurila, VersaFlex. Refer to Note 2, Acquisitions and Divestitures in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information. Average Number of Employees in 2021 27,500 Principal Manufacturing and Distribution Facilities Amsterdam, Netherlands; Birstall, United Kingdom; Busan, South Korea; Carrollton, Texas; Clayton, Australia; Delaware, Ohio; Deurne, Belgium; Ennis, Texas; Gonfreville, France; Huntsville, Alabama; Huron, Ohio; Kunshan, China; Little Rock, Arkansas; Mexico City, Mexico; Milan, Italy; Mojave, California; Nykvarn, Sweeden; Oakwood, Georgia; Ontario, Canada; Ostrow Wielkopolski, Poland; Ruitz, France; Shildon, United Kingdom; Sylmar, California; Stowmarket, United Kingdom; Tepexpan, Mexico; Vantaa, Finland; Waxahachie, Texas; and Wroclaw, Poland. 2021 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND 10-K 4 INDUSTRIAL COATINGS Strategic Business Unit Products Primary End-uses Main Distribution Methods Primary Brands Automotive OEM (a) Coatings Specifically formulated coatings, adhesives and sealants and metal pretreaments Automotive original equipment and automotive parts and accessories Direct to manufacturing companies and various coatings applicators PPG Industrial Coatings Specifically formulated coatings, adhesives and sealants and metal pretreaments; services and coatings application Appliances, agricultural and construction equipment, consumer electronics, building products (including residential and commercial construction), kitchenware, transportation vehicles and numerous other finished products; On-site coatings services within several customer manufacturing locations as well as at regional service centers. PPG Packaging Coatings Specifically formulated coatings Metal cans, closures, and plastic tubes for food, beverage and personal care, and promotional and specialty packaging PPG Specialty Coatings and Materials Amorphous precipitated silicas, TESLIN substrate, Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) materials, optical lens materials and photochromic dyes Silicas - Tire, battery separator and other end-uses TESLIN - Labels, e-passports, drivers licenses, breathable membranes, loyalty cards and identification cards OLED - displays and lighting Lens materials - optical lenses and color-change products PPG TESLIN (a) Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) Segment Overview This reportable business segment primarily supplies a variety of protective and decorative coatings and finishes along with adhesives, sealants, metal pretreatment products, optical monomers and coatings, low-friction coatings, precipitated silicas and other specialty materials. Alliances PPG has established alliances with Kansai Paints to serve Japanese-based automotive OEM customers in North America and Europe and Asian Paints Ltd. to serve certain aftermarket customers and automotive OEM customers in India. Major Competitive Factors Product performance, technology, quality, technical and customer service, price, customer productivity and distribution. Global Competitors Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems Ltd., BASF Corporation, Kansai Paints, Nippon Paint and the Sherwin-Williams Company 2021 Strategic Acquisitions Tikkurila, W rwag, Cetelon. Refer to Note 2, Acquisitions and Divestitures in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information. Average Number of Employees in 2021 16,000 Principal Manufacturing and Distribution Facilities Barberton, Ohio; Busan, South Korea; Cieszyn, Poland; Cleveland, Ohio; Delfzijl, Netherlands; Lake Charles, Louisiana; Oak Creek, Wisconsin; Quattordio, Italy; San Juan del Rio, Mexico; Springdale, Pennsylvania; Sumar , Brazil; Weingarten, Germany; and Suzhou, Tianjin and Zhangjiagang, China. 2021 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K 5 Research and Development ($ in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Research and development costs, including depreciation of research facilities $463 $401 $456 % of annual net sales 2.8 % 2.9 % 3.0 % Technology innovation has been a hallmark of PPG s success throughout its history. The Company seeks to optimize its investment in research and development to create new products to drive profitable growth. We align our product development with the macro trends in the markets we serve and leverage core technology platforms to develop products for unmet market needs. Additionally, we operate laboratories in close geographic proximity to our customers and we customize our products for our customers' end-use applications. Our history of successful technology introductions is based on a commitment to an efficient and effective innovation process and disciplined portfolio management. We have obtained government funding for a small portion of the Company s research efforts, and we will continue to pursue government funding, where appropriate. We own and operate several facilities to conduct research and development for new and improved products and processes. In addition to the Company s centralized principal research and development centers (see Item 2. Properties of this Form 10-K), operating segments manage their development through centers of excellence. As part of our ongoing efforts to manage our formulations and raw material costs effectively, we operate global competitive sourcing laboratories. Because of our broad array of products and customers, we are not materially dependent upon any single technology platform. Raw Materials, Energy and Logistics PPG uses a wide variety of complex raw materials that serve as the building blocks of our manufactured products. The Company s most significant raw materials are epoxy and other resins, titanium dioxide and other pigments, and solvents in the coatings businesses and sand and soda ash in the specialty coatings and materials business. Raw materials include both organic, primarily petroleum-derived, materials and inorganic materials, including titanium dioxide. These raw materials represent PPG s single largest production cost component. Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet our planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts with multiple sources and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. Our raw materials include bio-based materials as part of a product renewal strategy. While prices for certain raw materials typically fluctuate with energy prices and global supply and demand changes, such fluctuations are impacted by the fact that the manufacture of our raw materials is several steps downstream from crude oil, natural gas, and other key feedstocks. Through effective management of raw materials, energy and logistics, the Company maintains a competitive cost position and ensures ongoing security of supply. Security of a sufficient supply of high-quality raw materials is important to PPG s continued success as it allows the Company to increase production as necessary to keep pace with customer demand. In 2021, we experienced shortages of certain raw materials, which negatively impacted our ability to fully meet customer demand. We are continuing our aggressive sourcing initiatives to improve our competitive cost position and broaden our supply of high-quality raw materials. These initiatives include qualifying multiple sources of supply, within Asia and other lower cost regions of the world, continuing to diversify our resin supply, including actions to expand our on-site resin manufacturing capabilities, and reducing the amount of titanium dioxide used in our product formulations. We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the regulation and registration of chemicals which could potentially impact the availability and viability of some of the raw materials we use in our production processes. Our ongoing, global product stewardship efforts are directed at maintaining our compliance with these standards. Changes to chemical registration regulations have been proposed or implemented in the European Union and many countries, including China, Canada, the United States ( U.S. ), the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), Brazil, Mexico and South Korea. Because implementation of many of these programs has not been finalized, the financial impact cannot be estimated at this time. We anticipate that the number of chemical registration regulations will continue to increase globally, and we have implemented programs to track and comply with these regulations. At PPG, our commitment to sustainability extends to our suppliers as an extension of our internal focus on sustainability. Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct clarifies our global expectations in the areas of business integrity, labor practices, associate health and safety, and environmental management. Our Supplier Sustainability Policy builds upon our Global Supplier Code of Conduct by establishing expectations for sustainability within our supply chain. This policy reinforces our expectations that our suppliers, as well as their subcontractors, will comply fully with applicable laws and adhere to internationally recognized environmental, social and corporate-governance standards. 2021 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND 10-K 6 In 2020, PPG engaged EcoVadis , a leading global corporate social responsibility and sustainability ratings company, to leverage assessment processes, tools, resources and insights to drive sustainability standards and practices throughout PPG's global supply base. The EcoVadis sustainability intelligence suite assists PPG in providing broad-scale supply chain risk screening and mapping, more reliable supplier sustainability metric scorecards with actionable ratings, and complete audit and improvement management capabilities. In 2021, PPG earned a Gold rating from EcoVadis underscoring our ongoing commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) and our efforts to manage our economic, social and environmental impact. We typically experience fluctuating prices for energy and raw materials driven by various factors, including changes in supplier feedstock costs and inventories, global industry activity levels, foreign currency exchange rates, government regulation, and global supply and demand factors. For 2021 versus 2020, we experienced increases in our operating costs of more than $1.0 billion led by raw material cost inflation. The increases in raw material costs were primarily driven by ongoing supply constraints, including various force majeure declarations, higher energy prices, maintenance outages at many of our suppliers, energy surcharges in Europe, labor availability challenges, transportation shortages and higher ocean freight costs. Also in 2021, we experienced increases in other logistics costs, driven by supply chain disruptions, logistical challenges, labor shortages and manufacturing interruptions at both our factories and those of our suppliers and customers. Based on the distribution nature of many of our businesses, logistics and distribution costs are significant. Given the uncertainty presented by COVID s impact on supply chains globally and the global economic recovery, we are not able to predict the 2022 full-year impact of changes in raw material pricing versus 2021; however, we expect the negative impact of raw material inflation to lessen as 2022 progresses. Global Operations PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations. This broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance to us of economic impacts occurring in any one region of the world. As a result of our global footprint, we are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets, trade protection measures and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. During 2021, favorable foreign currency translation increased Net sales by approximately $345 million and Income before income taxes by approximately $60 million. Our net sales in the developed and emerging regions of the world for the years ended December 31 st are summarized below: ($ in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Net sales United States, Canada, Western Europe $10,918 $9,218 $10,191 Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific 5,884 4,616 4,955 Total $16,802 $13,834 $15,146 Refer to Note 19, Revenue Recognition in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional geographic information pertaining to sales and Note 20, Reportable Business Segment Information in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for geographic information related to PPG s property, plant and equipment. Seasonality PPG s Income before income taxes has typically been greater in the second and third quarters and Cash from operating activities has been greatest in the fourth quarter due to end-use market seasonality, primarily in our architectural coatings and traffic solutions businesses. Demand for our architectural coatings and traffic solutions products is typically the strongest in the second and third quarters due to higher home improvement, maintenance and construction activity during the spring and summer months in the U.S., Canada and Europe. The Latin America paint season is the strongest in the fourth quarter. These cyclical activity levels result in the collection of outstanding receivables and lower inventory on hand in the fourth quarter generating higher Cash from operating activities. Employee Relations The average number of people employed by PPG during 2021 was approximately 49,300, of which approximately 14,800 were in the United States and approximately 34,500 were elsewhere in the world. The Company has numerous collective bargaining agreements throughout the world. We observe local customs, laws and practices in labor relations when negotiating collective bargaining agreements. There were no significant work stoppages in 2021. While we have experienced occasional work stoppages as a result of the collective bargaining process and may experience some work stoppages in the future, we believe that we will be able to negotiate all labor agreements on satisfactory terms. To date, these work stoppages have not had a significant impact on our results of operations. Overall, we believe we have good relationships with our employees. 2021 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K 7 Human Capital The PPG Way is how we enable, empower and engage each employee to implement the strategies needed to strengthen our position as an industry leader. It guides our employees and leaders as we strive to achieve our purpose of protecting and beautifying the world. Employee engagement is a measure of how authentically we are living our culture. We conduct employee surveys to increase dialogue among teams and implement meaningful action to improve results. Our human capital management strategies provide the foundation for our teams to thrive and deliver exceptional performance. These strategies in the areas of culture and purpose, employee engagement, development and pay equity are overseen by the Human Management and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. We are committed to ensuring our employees are safe, healthy, enabled, engaged and valued for the diverse talents they bring to PPG. We believe that having quality dialogue with our people, recognizing the value they bring and championing an authentic culture generates engaged employees and a company that is more innovative, productive and competitive. Our focus on and investment in learning and development are crucial to ensuring we keep our people engaged, productive and successful at every stage of their careers. We are committed to promoting from within wherever possible while also bringing in new ideas, thoughts and insights. Our environmental, health and safety policy and standards define our expectations, and we implement programs and initiatives to reduce health and safety risk in our operations. We measure progress against our health and safety goals using the injury and illness rate, which is calculated as the number of illness and injury incidents per 200,000 work hours. For both 2021 and 2020, our injury and illness rate was 0.26. One of PPG s greatest strengths is the diversity of our people, who represent wide-ranging nationalities, cultures, languages, religions, ethnicities, lifestyles, and professional and educational backgrounds. Their unique perspectives enable us to meet challenges quickly, creatively and effectively, providing a significant competitive advantage in today s global economy. To ensure our people feel valued and respected, we are committed to providing a workplace that embraces a culture of diversity and inclusion and is free from harassment and bullying. In connection with our focus on diversity, equity and inclusion, PPG operates eight Employee Resource Networks ( ERNs ). These ERNs are open to all employees and are intended to provide an opportunity for in-depth discussion, focus and recommendations on how PPG can deliver higher growth and performance by creating a more diverse, equitable and inclusive organization. More information about PPG s human capital management strategies and our workforce can be found in the Proxy Statement for our 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and our Sustainability Report and on our sustainability website at http://sustainability.ppg.com. Environmental Matters PPG is committed to operating in a sustainable manner and to helping our customers meet their sustainability goals. Our sustainability efforts are led by the Sustainability and Innovation Committee (formerly known as the Technology and Environment Committee) of our Board of Directors. At the management level, day-to-day implementation of our environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) initiatives is led by our Vice President, Global Sustainability, a new position created in 2021 to coordinate PPG s ESG and sustainability programs and to communicate our ESG progress with our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders. The Vice President, Global Sustainability works with PPG s Sustainability Committee, a committee of management consisting of senior corporate executives, to establish and monitor our sustainability goals, policies, programs and procedures that incorporate sustainability into our business practices, including resource management, climate change impacts, innovation, community engagement, communications, procurement, manufacturing and employee wellness. Our dedication to innovation is intertwined with sustainability. Once again, we increased the percent of our sales from sustainable products to 38% in 2021 from 35% in 2020. We are marketing an ever-growing variety of products and services that protect the environment and provide safety and other benefits to our customers. Our products contribute to lighter, more fuel-efficient vehicles, airplanes and ships, and they help our customers reduce their energy consumption, conserve water and reduce waste. These products include a compact automotive paint process that saves energy and reduces water usage; sustainable, waterborne coatings formulations; lightweight sealants and coatings for aircraft; coatings that cool surfaces; coatings for recyclable metal packaging; antimicrobial products; and solutions for autonomous and battery-powered vehicles. The Company s commitment to sustainability continues to yield tangible results. In 2021, we again made significant progress reducing our energy intensity, greenhouse gas emissions intensity and waste intensity. More information about PPG s sustainability values, efforts, goals and data and our community and employee engagement programs can be found in our Sustainability Report and on our sustainability website at http://sustainability.ppg.com. We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the protection of the environment. In management s opinion, the Company operates in an environmentally sound manner and is well positioned, relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates. PPG is negotiating with various government agencies concerning current and 2021 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND 10-K 8 former manufacturing sites and offsite waste disposal locations, including certain sites on the National Priority List. While PPG is not generally a major contributor of wastes to these offsite waste disposal locations, each potentially responsible party may face governmental agency assertions of joint and several liability. Generally, however, a final allocation of costs is made based on relative contributions of wastes to the site. There is a wide range of cost estimates for cleanup of these sites, due largely to uncertainties as to the nature and extent of their condition and the methods that may have to be employed for their remediation. The Company has established reserves for onsite and offsite remediation of those sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Our experience to date regarding environmental matters leads us to believe that we will have continuing expenditures for compliance with provisions regulating the protection of the environment and for present and future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. Management anticipates that such expenditures will occur over an extended period of time. In addition to the $282 million currently reserved for environmental remediation efforts, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be approximately $100 million to $200 million. These reasonably possible unreserved losses relate to environmental matters at a number of sites, none of which are individually significant. The loss contingencies related to these sites include significant unresolved issues such as the nature and extent of contamination at these sites and the methods that may have to be employed to remediate them. ($ in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Capital expenditures for environmental control projects $17 $12 $15 It is expected that capital expenditures for such projects in 2022 will be in the range of $20 million to $30 million. Although future capital expenditures are difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly changing regulatory standards and policies, it is likely that environmental control standards will become increasingly stringent and the cost of compliance will increase. Management believes that the outcome of these environmental contingencies will not have a material adverse effect on PPG s financial position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. Refer to Note 14, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information related to environmental matters and our accrued liability for estimated environmental remediation costs. Available Information The Company s website address is www.ppg.com . The Company posts, and shareholders may access without charge, the Company s recent filings and any amendments of its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The Company also posts all financial press releases, including earnings releases, to its website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC, including reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on PPG s website to the SEC s website, www.se