ITEM 1. BUSINESS General (All Registrants) PPL, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a utility holding company, incorporated in 1994. PPL, through its regulated utility subsidiaries, delivers electricity to customers in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, and Rhode Island; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky and Rhode Island; and generates electricity from power plants in Kentucky. PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2023 are shown below (* denotes a Registrant). PPL Corporation* PPL Capital Funding Provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries PPL Electric* Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in Pennsylvania LKE A holding company that owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG E and KU RIE Engages in the regulated transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and regulated distribution and sale of natural gas in Rhode Island LG E* Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and regulated distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky KU* Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in Kentucky Pennsylvania Regulated Segment Kentucky Regulated Segment Rhode Island Regulated Segment In addition to PPL, the other Registrants included in this filing are as follows. PPL Electric , headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL and a regulated public utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PAPUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service area and provides electricity supply to retail customers in that area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act. PPL Electric was organized in 1920 as Pennsylvania Power Light Company. LG E, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG E is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. LG E was incorporated in 1913. KU, headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and Virginia. KU is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC and the VSCC, and certain of its transmission and wholesale power activities are subject to the jurisdiction 3 Table of Contents of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. KU serves its Kentucky customers under the KU name and its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name. KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991. Segment Information (PPL) PPL is organized into three reportable segments as depicted in the chart above: Kentucky Regulated, which primarily represents the results of LG E and KU, Pennsylvania Regulated, which primarily represents the results of PPL Electric, and Rhode Island Regulated, which primarily represents the results of RIE. "Corporate and Other" primarily includes corporate level financing costs, certain unallocated costs, and certain non-recoverable costs incurred in conjunction with the acquisition of Narragansett Electric and the financial results of Safari Energy, prior to its sale on November 1, 2022. Beginning on January 1, 2023, the Kentucky Regulated segment consists primarily of the regulated electricity generation, transmission and distribution operations conducted by LG E and KU, as well as LG E's regulated distribution and sale of natural gas. Prior to January 1, 2023, the Kentucky Regulated segment also included the financing activities of LKE. The financing activity of LKE is presented in "Corporate and Other" beginning on January 1, 2023. Prior periods have been adjusted to reflect this change. As a result, PPL s segments consist of its regulated operations in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island and exclude any incremental financing activities of holding companies, which Management believes is a more meaningful presentation as it provides information on the core regulated operations of PPL. A comparison of PPL's Regulated segments is shown below. Kentucky Pennsylvania Rhode Island Regulated Regulated Regulated For the year ended December 31, 2023: Operating Revenues (in billions) $ 3.5 $ 3.0 $ 1.9 Net Income (in millions) $ 552 $ 519 $ 96 Electricity delivered (GWh) 28,809 35,704 7,174 Natural gas delivered (Bcf) 41 38 At December 31, 2023: Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (a) $ 12.0 $ 9.8 $ 3.2 Service area (in square miles) 8,000 10,000 1,200 Customers (in millions) 1.3 1.5 0.8 (a) Represents capitalization for Kentucky Regulated and rate base for Pennsylvania Regulated and Rhode Island Regulated. The amount for Rhode Island Regulated excludes acquisition-related adjustments for non-earning assets. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional financial information by segment. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for additional revenue information. (PPL Electric, LG E and KU) PPL Electric has two operating segments, distribution and transmission, which are aggregated into a single reportable segment. Each of LG E and KU operates as a single operating and reportable segment. Kentucky Regulated Segment (PPL) The Kentucky Regulated segment consists primarily of the regulated electricity generation, transmission and distribution operations conducted by LG E and KU, as well as LG E's regulated distribution and sale of natural gas. (PPL, LG E and KU) LG E and KU are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, also Virginia. LG E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG E provides electric service to approximately 436,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in nine counties and provides natural gas service to approximately 335,000 customers in its electric service area and eight additional counties in Kentucky. KU provides electric service to approximately 545,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky and approximately 28,000 customers in five counties in southwestern Virginia, covering 4 Table of Contents approximately 4,800 non-contiguous square miles. KU also sells wholesale electricity to two municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts. Franchises and Licenses LG E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG E provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities. Competition There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electric service areas of LG E and KU. From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments. Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky. The nature or timing of legislative or regulatory actions, if any, regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LG E and KU, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted. Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation. KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated. Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels indirectly impact LG E's natural gas revenues. Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users. LG E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity. Therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact LG E's profitability. Some large industrial and commercial customers, however, may physically bypass LG E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems. Power Supply At December 31, 2023, LG E owned generating capacity of 2,760 MW and KU owned generating capacity of 4,775 MW. See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of generating facilities. The system capacity of LG E's and KU's owned generation is based upon several factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances. During 2023, LG E's and KU's power plants generated the following amounts of electricity: GWh Fuel Source LG E KU Coal 10,509 13,219 Gas 1,241 4,120 Hydro 272 44 Solar 8 12 Total (a) 12,030 17,395 (a) This generation represents a decrease for LG E of 4% and a decrease for KU of 8% from 2022 output. The majority of LG E's and KU's generated electricity was used to supply their retail customer bases. LG E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their customers. When LG E has excess generation capacity after serving its own customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG E and vice versa. Due to environmental requirements and energy efficiency measures, as of December 31, 2023, LG E and KU have retired approximately 1,200 MW of coal-fired generation plants since 2010. LG E and KU received approval from the KPSC to develop a 4 MW Solar Share facility to service a Solar Share program. The Solar Share program is a voluntary program that allows customers to subscribe capacity in the Solar Share facility. Construction commences, in 500-kilowatt phases, when subscription is complete. Construction of five 500-kilowatt phases was completed as 5 Table of Contents of December 31, 2022. LG E and KU continue to market the program and are accepting subscriptions for the sixth 500-kilowatt phase. On January 23, 2020, LG E and KU applied to the KPSC for approval of arrangements relating to the purchase of 100 MW of solar power in connection with the Green Tariff option established in the 2018 Kentucky base rate cases. Pursuant to the agreements, LG E and KU would purchase the initial 20 years of output of a proposed third-party solar generation facility and resell the bulk of the power as renewable energy to two large industrial customers and use the remaining power for other customers. The generation facility is currently expected to be operational in early 2025. In 2020, the KPSC approved LG E s and KU s applications. PPL, LG E and KU do not anticipate that these arrangements will have a significant impact on their results of operations or financial condition. On October 6, 2021, LG E and KU entered into an agreement to purchase the initial 20 years of output of a proposed 125 MW third-party solar generation facility in connection with the Green Tariff option established in the 2018 Kentucky base rate cases. Pursuant to the agreements, LG E and KU would purchase output of the facility and resell power as renewable energy to certain large customers. The generation facility is currently expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2026. PPL, LG E and KU do not anticipate that this agreement will have a significant impact on their results of operations or financial condition. On December 15, 2022, LG E and KU filed an application with the KPSC for a CPCN for the construction and purchase of various generating facilities in conjunction with the retirement of four existing coal-fired generation units and three small gas-fired units. On March 24, 2023, Kentucky Senate Bill 4 (SB 4) went into effect, which requires KPSC approval of the retirement of fossil fuel-fired electric generating units in the state. On May 10, 2023, LG E and KU filed an application with the KPSC seeking approval of the retirement of seven fossil fuel-fired generating units as required by SB 4. On May 16, 2023, the KPSC entered an Order consolidating the SB 4 filing proceeding into the CPCN case. On November 6, 2023, the KPSC issued an order approving LG E s and KU s requests (i) to construct a 640 MW net summer rating NGCC combustion turbine at LG E's Mill Creek Generating Station in Jefferson County, Kentucky, (ii) to construct a 120 MWac solar photovoltaic electric generating facility in Mercer County, Kentucky, (iii) to acquire a 120 MWac solar facility to be built by a third-party solar developer in Marion County, Kentucky and (iv) to construct a 125 MW, 4-hour battery energy storage system facility at KU's E.W. Brown Generating Station. The KPSC denied the request to construct a 621 MW net summer rating NGCC combustion turbine at KU's E.W. Brown Generating Station in Mercer County, Kentucky at this time, based on the finding that the construction of this unit should be deferred with the construction date beginning on a date that provides for an in-service date in 2030. The order also authorized LG E's and KU's entry into the four solar PPAs, subject to certain conditions, but deferred for future proceedings specific decisions on cost recovery treatment or mechanisms. Further, the order approved the new, adjusted or expanded energy efficiency programs contained in the requested 2024-2030 DSM plan. The KPSC order included approval of the requested retirements of two existing coal-fired generation units at LG E's Mill Creek Unit 1 (300 MW) and 2 (297 MW) in 2024 and 2027, subject to certain conditions, and three small gas-fired units. The order denied approval of the retirement of KU's E.W. Brown 3 Unit (412 MW) and Ghent Unit 2 (486 MW) in 2028 at this time, citing the need for additional clarity regarding environmental compliance regulations. The new NGCC facility will be jointly owned by LG E (31%) and KU (69%) and the solar units will be jointly owned by LG E (37%) and KU (63%), the battery storage unit will be owned by LG E, and the proposed PPA transactions and DSM programs will be entered into or conducted jointly by LG E and KU, consistent with LG E and KU's shared dispatch, cost allocation, tariff or other frameworks. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Fuel Supply Coal and natural gas are expected to be the predominant fuels used by LG E and KU for generation for the foreseeable future. Natural gas used for generation is primarily purchased using contractual arrangements separate from LG E's natural gas distribution operations. Natural gas and oil are also used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers. Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units. Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by several factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues, high or low river level events, lock outages and other supplier or transporter operating or financial difficulties. 6 Table of Contents LG E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2028 and augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed. For their existing units, LG E and KU expect, for the foreseeable future, to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana, southern Illinois, northern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania. LG E and KU continue to purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at Trimble County Unit 2. Coal is delivered to the generating plants primarily by barge and rail. To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG E and KU have secured firm long-term pipeline transport capacity services with contracts of various durations through 2056 on the interstate pipeline serving Cane Run Unit 7, six simple cycle combustion turbines at the Trimble County site, and the future Mill Creek Unit 5. This pipeline also serves the two simple cycle units at the Paddy's Run site. For the seven simple cycle combustion turbines at the E.W. Brown facility, no firm long-term pipeline transport capacity has been purchased due to the facility's connection to two interstate pipelines and some of the units having dual fuel capability. LG E and KU have firm contracts for a portion of the natural gas fuel for Cane Run Unit 7 through 2026. The bulk of the natural gas fuel is expected to be purchased on the spot market. (PPL and LG E) Natural Gas Distribution Supply Four underground natural gas storage fields in service, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately 11 Bcf, are used to provide natural gas service to LG E's firm sales customers. Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following winter heating season. Without this storage capacity, LG E would need to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases, and the cost of natural gas supply and pipeline transportation services are expected to be higher. At December 31, 2023, LG E had 9 Bcf of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $34 million. LG E will continue work in 2024 on a multi-year project to retire a fifth underground natural gas storage field, which is no longer in service, and plans to complete the project by no later than 2025. This field had a working natural gas capacity of 4 Bcf. LG E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying durations and terms that provide competitively priced natural gas designed to meet its firm sales obligations. These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive. In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG E's natural gas customers. LG E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines. LG E has a set of contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG E between 2025 and 2028. Total winter season capacity under these contracts is 184,900 MMBtu/day and summer season capacity is 60,000 MMBtu/day. LG E has two additional contracts with this same pipeline. One contract is for pipeline capacity through 2026 for 60,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons. The other contract is for pipeline capacity through 2028 for 30,000 MMBtu/day during the winter season. LG E has a single contract with a second pipeline with a total capacity of 20,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons that expires in 2030. LG E expects to purchase natural gas supplies for its gas distribution operations from onshore producing regions in South Texas, East Texas, North Louisiana and Arkansas, as well as gas originating in the Marcellus and Utica production areas. (PPL, LG E and KU) Transmission LG E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority to act as their transmission reliability coordinator and contract with TranServ International, Inc. to act as their independent transmission organization. Rates LG E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC and the VSCC. LG E and KU operate under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff. 7 Table of Contents LG E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments and costs recovered separately through other means. As such, LG E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets in Kentucky. KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities, except for regulatory assets and liabilities related to the levelized fuel factor, accumulated deferred income taxes, pension and postretirement benefits, and AROs related to certain CCR impoundments, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates, no return is earned on the related assets. KU's rates to two municipal customers for wholesale power requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a formula rate that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities, except accumulated deferred income taxes, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates, no return is earned on the related assets. See "Financial and Operational Developments" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information on current rate proceedings and rate mechanisms. Pennsylvania Regulated Segment (PPL) The Pennsylvania Regulated segment consists of PPL Electric, a regulated public utility engaged in the distribution and transmission of electricity. (PPL and PPL Electric) PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.5 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties within eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric also provides electricity to retail customers in this territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act. Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies that it has succeeded, and as a result of certification by the PAPUC. PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions. In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth. Competition Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PAPUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area. Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electricity distribution business. Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, generation of electricity is a competitive business in Pennsylvania, and PPL Electric does not own or operate any generation facilities. The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM. Rates and Regulation Transmission PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electricity transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S. PJM serves as a FERC-approved Regional Transmission Operator (RTO) to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves. In addition to operating the electricity transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services. A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the 8 Table of Contents transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets. Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities. Certain types of transmission investments are subject to competitive processes outlined in the PJM tariff. PPL Electric's transmission revenues are billed in accordance with a FERC-approved Open Access Transmission Tariff that utilizes a formula-based rate recovery mechanism. Under this formula, beginning in 2023, rates are put into effect on January 1st of each year based upon actual expenditures from the most recently filed FERC Form 1, forecasted capital additions, and other data based on PPL Electric s books and records. 2023 is considered a transitional period as the calendar year rate approved by FERC became effective April 1, 2023. Rates are compared during the year to the estimated annual expenses and capital additions that will be filed in PPL Electric s annual FERC Form 1, filed under the FERC's Uniform System of Accounts. Under the mechanism, any difference between the revenue requirement in effect and actual expenditures incurred for that year is recorded as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability, and the regulatory asset or regulatory liability is to be recovered from or returned to customers starting one year after the conclusion of the rate year. As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases transmission services from PJM. See "PLR" below. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms and regulatory matters. Distribution PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions). All regulatory assets and liabilities, except accumulated deferred income taxes, are excluded from the return on rate base. Therefore, no return is earned on the related assets unless specifically provided for by the PAPUC. Currently, PPL Electric's Smart Meter rider and the DSIC are the only riders authorized to earn a return. Certain operating expenses are also included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates including wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and taxes. Pennsylvania's Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard (AEPS) requires electric distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain from alternative energy resources a portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania. Under the default service procurement plans approved by the PAPUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS. Act 129 created an energy efficiency and conservation program, a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies for market misconduct and changes to the existing AEPS. Act 11 authorizes the PAPUC to approve two specific ratemaking mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, the use of a DSIC. Such alternative ratemaking procedures and mechanisms provide opportunity for accelerated cost-recovery and, therefore, are important to PPL Electric as it is in a period of significant capital investment to maintain and enhance the reliability of its delivery system, including the replacement of aging assets. PPL Electric utilized the fully projected future test year mechanism in its 2015 base rate proceeding. PPL has had the ability to utilize the DSIC recovery mechanism since July 2013. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms and legislative and regulatory matters. PLR The Customer Choice Act requires electric distribution companies, including PPL Electric, or an alternative supplier approved by the PAPUC, to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by the PLR pursuant to PAPUC regulations. In 2023, the following average percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided by competitive suppliers: 42% of residential, 80% of small commercial and industrial and 97% of large commercial and industrial customers. PPL Electric s electricity generation costs are established based upon the results of a competitive solicitation process. In December 2020, the PAPUC approved PPL Electric s default service plan for the period June 1, 2021 through May 31, 2025, which includes a total of eight solicitations for electricity supply held semiannually in April and October. Through December 31, 2023, six auctions of the plan were completed. This plan also includes eight solicitations for alternative energy credits held semiannually in January and July. Through January 2024, six alternative energy credit solicitations have been completed. 9 Table of Contents Pursuant to the plans, PPL Electric contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, commercial and industrial customers who elect to take default service from PPL Electric. These solicitations contain a mix of products including 5-year block energy contracts for residential customers, 6- and 12-month fixed-price load-following contracts for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, 12-month real-time pricing contracts for large commercial and industrial customers, and alternative energy credit contracts for residential, commercial and industrial customers. These contracts fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity supply as a PLR. Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service area. 