ITEM 1. BUSINESS General (All Registrants) PPL Corporation , headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a utility holding company, incorporated in 1994, in connection with the deregulation of electricity generation in Pennsylvania, to serve as the parent company to the regulated utility, PPL Electric, and to generation and other unregulated business activities. PPL Electric was founded in 1920 as Pennsylvania Power Light Company. PPL, through its regulated utility subsidiaries, delivers electricity to customers in the U.K., Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Virginia; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky; and generates electricity from power plants in Kentucky. PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2019 are shown below (* denotes a Registrant). PPL Corporation* PPL Capital Funding Provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries PPL Global Engages in the regulated distribution of electricity in the U.K. LKE* PPL Electric* Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in Pennsylvania LG E* Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the regulated distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky KU* Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in Kentucky U.K. Regulated Segment Kentucky Regulated Segment Pennsylvania Regulated Segment PPL Global is not a registrant. Unaudited annual consolidated financial statements for the U.K. Regulated Segment are furnished contemporaneously with this report on a Form 8-K with the SEC. In addition to PPL, the other Registrants included in this filing are as follows. PPL Electric Utilities Corporation , headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL organized in Pennsylvania in 1920 and a regulated public utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service area and provides electricity supply to retail customers in that area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act. LG E and KU Energy LLC, acquired in 2010 and headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL and a holding company that owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG E and KU, which constitute substantially all of LKE's assets. LG E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. LG E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas. LG E and KU maintain separate corporate identities and serve customers in Kentucky under their respective names. KU also serves customers in Virginia under the Old Dominion Power name. LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity incorporated in 1989. 3 Table of Contents Louisville Gas and Electric Company, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG E is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. LG E was incorporated in 1913. Kentucky Utilities Company, headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and Virginia. KU is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC and the VSCC, and certain of its transmission and wholesale power activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. KU serves its Kentucky customers under the KU name and its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name. KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991. Segment Information (PPL) PPL is organized into three reportable segments as depicted in the chart above: U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated, and Pennsylvania Regulated. The U.K. Regulated segment has no related subsidiary Registrants. PPL's other reportable segments' results primarily represent the results of its related subsidiary Registrants, except that the reportable segments are also allocated certain corporate level financing costs that are not included in the results of the applicable subsidiary Registrants. PPL also has corporate and other costs, primarily including financing costs incurred at the corporate level that have not been allocated or assigned to the segments, as well as certain other unallocated costs. The financial results of Safari Energy are also reported within Corporate and Other. A comparison of PPL's three regulated segments is shown below. Kentucky Pennsylvania U.K. Regulated Regulated Regulated For the year ended December 31, 2019: Operating Revenues (in billions) $ 2.2 $ 3.2 $ 2.4 Net Income (in millions) $ 977 $ 436 $ 458 Electricity delivered (GWh) 72,061 31,368 37,024 At December 31, 2019: Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (a) $ 10.3 $ 10.4 $ 7.6 Service area (in square miles) 21,600 9,400 10,000 End-users (in millions) 7.9 1.3 1.4 (a) Represents RAV for U.K. Regulated, capitalization for Kentucky Regulated and rate base for Pennsylvania Regulated. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional financial information by segment. (PPL Electric, LKE, LG E and KU) PPL Electric has two operating segments that are aggregated into a single reportable segment. LKE, LG E and KU are individually single operating and reportable segments. U.K. Regulated Segment (PPL) The U.K. Regulated segment consists of PPL Global, which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations, the results of hedging the translation of WPD's earnings from British pound sterling into U.S. dollars, and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs and acquisition-related financing costs. WPD operates four of the 14 Ofgem regulated DNOs providing electricity service in the U.K. through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries: WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands). The number of network customers (end-users) served by WPD totals 7.9 million across 21,600 square miles in south Wales and southwest and central England. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for revenue information. WPD's operating revenues are translated from GBP to U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates in effect each month. The annual weighted average of the monthly GBP 4 Table of Contents to U.S. dollar exchange rates used for the years ended December 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $1.28 per GBP, $1.34 per GBP, and $1.28 per GBP. Franchise and Licenses WPD s operations are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. Ofgem is a non-ministerial government department and an independent National Regulatory Authority responsible for protecting the interests of existing and future electricity and natural gas consumers. The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental framework for electricity companies and established licenses that require each DNO to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks. WPD s operations are regulated under these licenses which set the outputs WPD needs to deliver to customers and associated revenues WPD is allowed to earn. WPD operates under a regulatory year that begins April 1 and ends March 31 of each year. Ofgem has the formal power to propose modifications to each distribution license; however, licensees can appeal such changes to the U.K. s Competition and Markets Authority. Generally, any potential changes to these licenses are reviewed with stakeholders in a formal regulatory consultation process prior to a formal change proposal. Competition Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network. WPD's four DNOs are, therefore, regulated monopolies, operating under regulatory price controls. Customers WPD provides regulated electricity distribution services to licensed third-party energy suppliers who use WPD's networks to transfer electricity to their customers, the end-users. WPD bills energy suppliers for this service and the supplier is responsible for billing its end-users. Ofgem requires that all licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement. This agreement specifies how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether a supplier needs to collateralize its payment obligations. WPD s costs make up approximately 17% of a U.K. residential end-user's electricity bill. U.K. Regulation and Rates Overview Ofgem has adopted a price control regulatory framework with a balanced objective of enhancing and developing future electricity networks, controlling costs to customers and allowing DNOs, such as WPD's DNOs, to earn a fair return on their investments. This regulatory structure is focused on outputs and performance in contrast to traditional U.S. utility ratemaking that operates under a cost recovery model. Price controls are established based on long-term business plans developed by each DNO with substantial input from its stakeholders. To measure the outputs and performance, each DNO business plan includes incentive targets that allow for increases and/or reductions in revenues based on operational performance, which are intended to align returns with quality of service, innovation and customer satisfaction. For comparative purposes, amounts listed below are in British pounds sterling, nominal prices and in calendar years unless otherwise noted. Key Ratemaking Mechanisms PPL believes the U.K. electricity utility model is a premium jurisdiction in which to do business due to its significant stakeholder engagement, incentive-based structure and high-quality ratemaking mechanisms. Current Price Control: RIIO-ED1 WPD currently operates under an eight-year price control called RIIO-ED1, which commenced for electricity distribution companies on April 1, 2015. The regulatory framework is based on an updated approach for sustainable network regulation known as the "RIIO" model where Revenue = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs. 5 Table of Contents In coordination with numerous stakeholders, WPD developed its business plans for RIIO-ED1 building off its historical track record and long-term strategy of delivering industry-leading levels of performance at an efficient level of cost. As a result, all four of WPD s DNOs' business plans were accepted by Ofgem as "well justified" and were "fast-tracked" ahead of all other DNOs. WPD's DNOs were rewarded for being fast-tracked with preferential financial incentives, a higher return on equity and higher cost savings retention under their business plans as discussed further below. However, an unintended consequence of being fast-tracked resulted in WPD being disadvantaged from a cost of debt recovery standpoint, as further discussed within (2) Real Return on capital from RAV below. WPD's combined RIIO-ED1 business plans as accepted by Ofgem included funding for total expenditures of approximately 12.8 billion (nominal) over the eight-year period, as follows: Totex - 8.5 billion ( 6.8 billion recovered as additions to RAV over time ("Slow pot"); 1.7 billion recovered in the year spent in the plan ("Fast pot")); Pension deficit funding - 1.2 billion; Cost of debt recovery - 1.0 billion; Pass Through Charges - 1.6 billion (Property taxes, Ofgem fees and National Grid transmissions charges); and Corporate income taxes recovery - 0.5 billion. The chart below illustrates the building blocks of allowed revenue and GAAP net income for the U.K. Regulated Segment. The revenue components are shown in either 2012/13 prices or nominal prices, consistent with the formulas Ofgem established for RIIO-ED1. The reference numbers shaded in each block correspond with the descriptions that follow. (a) Primarily pension deficit funding, pass through costs, profiling adjustments and legacy price control adjustments. (b) Primarily pass through true-ups and 5 per residential customer reduction completed in the regulatory year ended March 31, 2017. (c) Reference Form 8-K filed February 14, 2020 for U.K. Regulated Segment GAAP Statement of Income component values. (d) Includes the service cost component of GAAP pension costs/income. See Defined Benefits, Net periodic defined benefit costs (credits) in Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Primarily property taxes. (f) Primarily includes the non-service cost (credit) components of GAAP pension costs/income and gains and losses on foreign currency hedges. (g) Includes WPD interest and $32 million of allocated interest expense to finance the acquisition of WPD Midlands. (h) GAAP income taxes represent an effective tax rate of 16% for 2019, 17% for 2018, 19% for 2017 and approximately 17% going forward. (1) Base Revenue The base revenue a DNO can collect in each year of the current price control period is the sum of the following, discussed further below: a return on capital from RAV; a return of capital from RAV (i.e., depreciation); the Fast pot recovery, see discussion (4) Expenditure efficiency mechanisms below; 6 Table of Contents an allowance for cash taxes paid less a potential reduction for tax benefits from excess leverage if a DNO is levered more than 65% Debt/RAV; pension deficit funding; certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control; profiling adjustments, see discussion (6) Other revenue included in base revenue below; certain legacy price control adjustments from preceding price control periods, including the information quality incentive (also known as the rolling RAV incentive); and fast-track incentive - because WPD's four DNOs were fast-tracked through the price control review process for RIIO-ED1, their base revenue also includes the fast-track incentive. (2) Real Return on capital from RAV Real-time returns on cost of regulated equity (real) - Ofgem establishes an allowed return on regulated equity that DNOs earn in their base business plan revenues as a consideration of the financial parameters for each RIIO-ED1 business plan. For WPD, the base cost of equity collected in revenues was set at 6.4% (real). Base equity returns exclude inflation adjustments, allowances for incentive rewards/penalties and over/under collections driven by cost efficiencies. WPD s DNO base equity returns are calculated using an equity ratio of 35% of RAV. The equity ratio was reviewed and set during the RIIO-ED1 business plan process taking various stakeholder impacts into consideration such as costs to consumers, credit ratings and investor needs. The amounts of base real equity return for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were 168 million, 160 million and 151 million. Indexed cost of debt recovery (real) - As part of WPD s fast-track agreement with Ofgem for RIIO-ED1, WPD collects in revenues an assumed real cost of debt that is derived from a historical 10-year bond index (iBoxx) and adjusted annually for inflation. This calculated real cost of debt is then applied to 65% of RAV at the DNOs to determine the cost of debt revenue recovery. The cost of debt was set at 2.55% in the original "well justified" business plans. The recovery amounts are trued up annually as a component of the MOD true-up mechanism described within " (9) MOD and Inflation True-Up (TRU) " below. As discussed above, WPD s cost of debt revenue allowances are derived from using a rolling 10-year trailing average of historical 10-year bond index (iBoxx); however, the cost of debt revenue allowances for all slow track companies are derived using an extending trailing average of the index. Under this approach, the trailing average period used is progressively extended from 10 to 20 years and consequently short-term fluctuations in the interest rate have a less pronounced effect on the regulatory cost of debt applied. Therefore, WPD s cost of debt recovery is significantly lower than it would have been had it been derived under the approach used for the slow-track companies. Over the 8-year RIIO-ED1 period WPD is expected to under-recover its cost of debt at the four DNOs, based upon the latest inflation assumptions and projected 10-year iBoxx bond indices rates, by approximately 231 million primarily driven by the previously discussed differing cost of debt recovery calculations. Under the terms of the fast track process, fast tracked companies were not supposed to be disadvantaged financially to slow track companies. It is currently uncertain, however, if WPD will be able to recover any of this under-recovery in the next price control period, RIIO-ED2, beginning April 1, 2023. Interest costs relating to long-term debt issued at WPD s holding companies are not recovered in revenues and for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were approximately 57 million, 46 million and 49 million. (3) Recovery of depreciation in revenues - Recovery of depreciation in regulatory revenues is one of the key mechanisms Ofgem uses to support financeable business plans that provide incentives to attract the continued substantial investment required in the U.K. Differences between GAAP and regulatory depreciation exist primarily due to differing assumptions on asset lives and because RAV is adjusted for inflation using RPI. Compared to asset lives established for GAAP, asset lives established for ratemaking are set by Ofgem based on economic lives which results in improved DNO near-term revenues and cash flows during investment cycles. Under U.K. regulation prior to RIIO-ED1, electric distribution assets were depreciated on a 20-year asset life for the purpose of setting revenues. After review and consultation, Ofgem decided to use 45-year asset lives for RAV additions after April 1, 2015, with transitional arrangements available for DNOs fully demonstrating a need to ensure financeable plans. WPD adopted a transition that has a linear increase in asset lives from 20 to 45 years for additions to RAV in each year of RIIO-ED1 (with additions averaging a life of approximately 35 years over this period), which adds support to its credit metrics. RAV additions prior to March 31, 2015 continue to be recovered in revenues over 20 years. The asset lives used to determine depreciation expense for GAAP purposes are not the same as those used for the depreciation of the RAV in setting revenues and, as such, vary by asset type and are based on the expected useful lives of the assets. 7 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2015, after completing a review of the useful lives of its distribution network assets, WPD set the weighted average useful lives to 69 years for GAAP depreciation expense. Because Ofgem uses a real cost of capital, the RAV and recovery of depreciation are adjusted for inflation using RPI. The inflation revenues collected in this line item help recover the cost of equity and debt returns on a "nominal" basis, compared to the "real" rates used to set the return component of base revenues. This regulatory construct, in combination with the different assets lives used for ratemaking and GAAP, results in amounts collected by WPD as recovery of depreciation in revenues being significantly higher than the amounts WPD recorded for depreciation expense under GAAP. For 2019, 2018 and 2017, this difference was 450 million, 444 million and 424 million (pre-tax) and positively impacted net income. The difference is expected to continue in the 400 million to 450 million (pre-tax) range at least through 2022 (the last full calendar year of RIIO-ED1), assuming RPI of approximately 3.0% per year from 2020 through 2022 and based on expected RAV additions of approximately 800 million per year to prepare the distribution system for future U.K. energy objectives while maintaining premier levels of reliability and customer service. (4) Expenditure efficiency mechanisms - Ofgem introduced the concept of Totex in RIIO to ensure all DNOs face equal incentives in choosing between operating and capital solutions. Totex is split between immediate recovery (called "Fast pot") and deferred recovery as an addition to RAV (called "Slow pot"). The ratio of Slow pot to Fast pot was determined by each DNO in its business plan development. WPD established a Totex split of 80% Slow pot and 20% Fast pot for RIIO-ED1 to balance maximizing RAV growth with immediate cost recovery to support investment grade credit ratings. Comparatively, other DNOs on average used a ratio of approximately 70% Slow pot and 30% Fast pot for RIIO-ED1. Ofgem also allows a Totex Incentive Mechanism that is intended to reward DNOs for cost efficiency. WPD's DNOs are able to retain 70% of any amounts not spent against their RIIO-ED1 plan and bear 70% of any over-spends. Any amounts to be returned to customers are trued up in the AIP discussed below. Because Fast pot cost recovery represents 20% of Totex expenditures and certain other costs are recovered in other components of revenue, Fast pot will not equal operation and maintenance expenses recorded for GAAP purposes. (5) Income Tax Allowance - For price control purposes, WPD collects income tax based on Ofgem s notional tax charge, which will not equal the amount of income tax expense recorded for GAAP purposes. The following table shows the amount of taxes collected in revenues and recorded under GAAP. 2019 2018 2017 Taxes collected in revenues 56 58 57 Taxes recorded under GAAP 167 156 139 (6) Other revenue included in base revenue - Other revenue included in base revenue primarily consists of pension deficit funding, pass through costs, profiling adjustments and legacy price control adjustments. Recovery of annual (normal) pension cost and pension deficit funding - Ofgem allows DNOs to recover annual (normal) pension costs through the Totex allocation, split between the previously described Fast pot (immediate recovery) and Slow pot recovery (as an addition to RAV). The amount of normal pension cost is computed by the pension trustees, using assumptions that differ from those used in calculating pension costs/income under GAAP. In addition, the timing of the revenue collection may not match the actual pension payment schedule, resulting in a timing difference of cash flows. In addition, WPD recovers approximately 80% of pension deficit funding for certain of WPD's defined benefit pension plans in conjunction with actual costs similar to the Fast pot mechanism. The pension deficit is determined by the pension trustees on a triennial basis in accordance with their funding requirements. Pension deficit funding recovered in revenues was 151 million, 147 million and 142 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017. WPD expects similar amounts to be collected in revenues through March 31, 2021, but cannot predict amounts that will be collected in revenues beyond then as the plans are approaching a fully funded status. The current triennial pension review commenced in March 2019 and is expected to conclude by the end of 2020. See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for additional information on pension costs/income recognized under GAAP. Recovery of pass through costs - WPD recovers certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control such as property taxes, National Grid transmission charges and Ofgem fees. Although these items are intended to be pass-through charges there could be timing differences, primarily related to property taxes, as to when amounts are collected in revenues and when amounts are expensed in the Statements of Income. WPD over-collected property taxes by 37 million, 38 million and 19 8 Table of Contents million in 2019, 2018 and 2017. WPD expects to continue to over-recover property taxes until the end of RIIO-ED1. Amounts under-or over-recovered in revenues in a regulatory year are trued up through revenues two regulatory years later. Profiling adjustments - Ofgem permitted DNOs the flexibility to make profiling adjustments to their base revenues within their business plans. These adjustments do not affect the total base revenue in real terms over the eight-year price control period, but change the year in which the revenue is collected. In the first year of RIIO-ED1, WPD s base revenue decreased by 11.8% compared to the final year of the prior price control period (DPCR5), primarily due to a change in profiling methodology and a lower weighted-average cost of capital. Base revenue then increased by approximately 2.5% per annum before inflation for regulatory years up to March 31, 2019 and will increase by approximately 1% per annum before inflation for each regulatory year thereafter for the remainder of RIIO-ED1. (7) Incentives for developing high-quality business plans (known as fast-tracking) - For RIIO-ED1, Ofgem incentivized DNOs with certain financial rewards to develop "well justified" business plans that drive value to customers. WPD was awarded the following fast-track incentives: an annual fast-track revenue incentive worth 2.5% of Totex (approximately 25 million annually for WPD); a real cost of equity rate of 6.4% compared to 6.0% for slow-tracked DNOs; and, cost savings retention was established at 70% for WPD compared to approximately 55% for slow-tracked DNOs. (8) Allowed Revenue - Allowed revenue is the amount that a DNO can collect from its customers in order to fund its investment requirements. Base revenues are adjusted annually during RIIO-ED1 to arrive at allowed revenues. These adjustments are discussed in sections (9) through (13) below. (9) MOD and Inflation True-Up (TRU) MOD - RIIO-ED1 includes an AIP that allows future base revenues, agreed with the regulator as part of the price control review, to be updated during the price control period for financial adjustments including taxes, pensions, cost of debt, legacy price control adjustments from preceding price control periods and adjustments relating to actual and allowed total expenditure together with the Totex Incentive Mechanism (TIM). The AIP calculates an incremental change to base revenue, known as the "MOD" adjustment. The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2016 included the TIM for the 2015/16 regulatory year, as well as the cost of debt calculation based on the 10-year trailing average to October 2016. This MOD of 12 million reduced base revenue in calendar years 2017 and 2018 by 8 million and 4 million. The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2017 for the 2016/17 regulatory year was a 39 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar years 2018 and 2019 by 26 million and 13 million. The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2018 for the 2017/18 regulatory year was a 42 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar year 2019 by 28 million and will reduce base revenue in calendar year 2020 by 14 million. The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2019 for the 2018/19 regulatory year was an 81 million reduction to revenue that will reduce base revenue in calendar years 2020 and 2021 by 54 million and 27 million. The projected MOD for the 2019/20 regulatory year is a 128 million reduction to revenue that is expected to reduce base revenue in calendar years 2021 and 2022 by 85 million and 43 million. TRU - As discussed below in " (10) Inflation adjusted, multi-year rate cycle ," the base revenue for the RIIO-ED1 period was set based on 2012/13 prices. Therefore, an inflation factor as determined by forecasted RPI, provided by HM Treasury, is applied to base revenue. Forecasted RPI is trued up to actuals and affects future base revenue two regulatory years later. This revenue change is called the "TRU" adjustment. The TRU for the 2015/16 regulatory year was a 31 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar years 2017 and 2018 by 21 million and 10 million. The TRU for the 2016/17 regulatory year was a 6 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar years 2018 and 2019 by 4 million and 2 million. 9 Table of Contents The TRU for the 2017/18 regulatory year was a 4 million increase to revenue that increased base revenue in calendar year 2019 by 3 million and will increase base revenue in calendar year 2020 by 1 million. The TRU for the 2018/19 regulatory year was a 2 million reduction to revenue that will reduce base revenue in calendar years 2020 and 2021 by 1 million. The projected TRU for the 2019/20 regulatory year is a 13 million reduction to revenue that is expected to reduce base revenue in calendar years 2021 and 2022 by 9 million and 4 million. As both MOD and TRU are changes to future base revenues as determined by Ofgem, these adjustments are recognized as a component of revenues in future years in which service is provided and revenues are collected or returned to customers. (10) Inflation adjusted, multi-year rate cycle - Ofgem built its price control framework to better coincide with the long-term nature of electricity distribution investments. The current price control for electricity distribution is for the eight-year period from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2023. This both required and enabled WPD to design a base business plan with predictable revenues and expenses over the long-term to drive value for its customers through predetermined outputs and for its investors through preset base returns. A key aspect to the multi-year cycle is an annual inflation adjustment for revenue and cost components, which are inflated using RPI from the base 2012/13 prices used to establish the business plans. Consistent with Ofgem s formulas, the inflation adjustment is applied to base reven