ITEM 1. BUSINESS General (All Registrants) PPL , headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a utility holding company, incorporated in 1994, in connection with the deregulation of electricity generation in Pennsylvania, to serve as the parent company to the regulated utility, PPL Electric, and to generation and other unregulated business activities. PPL, through its regulated utility subsidiaries, delivers electricity to customers in Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Virginia; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky; and generates electricity from power plants in Kentucky. PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2021 are shown below (* denotes a Registrant). PPL Corporation* PPL Electric* Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in Pennsylvania LKE A holding company that owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG E and KU PPL Capital Funding Provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries LG E* Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and regulated distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky KU* Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in Kentucky Pennsylvania Regulated Segment Kentucky Regulated Segment In addition to PPL, the other Registrants included in this filing are as follows. PPL Electric , headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL and a regulated public utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service area and provides electricity supply to retail customers in that area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act. PPL Electric was organized in 1920 as Pennsylvania Power Light Company. LG E, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG E is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. LG E was incorporated in 1913. KU, headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and Virginia. KU is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC and the VSCC, and certain of its transmission and wholesale power activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. KU serves its Kentucky customers under the KU name and its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name. KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991. 3 Table of Contents Segment Information (PPL) PPL is organized into two reportable segments as depicted in the chart above: Kentucky Regulated, which primarily represents the results of LG E and KU, and Pennsylvania Regulated, which primarily represents the results of PPL Electric. "Corporate and Other" primarily includes financing costs incurred at the corporate level that have not been allocated or assigned to the segments. A comparison of PPL's Regulated segments is shown below. Kentucky Pennsylvania Regulated Regulated For the year ended December 31, 2021: Operating Revenues (in billions) $ 3.3 $ 2.4 Net Income (in millions) $ 468 $ 445 Electricity delivered (GWh) 30,317 37,005 At December 31, 2021: Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (a) $ 11.3 $ 8.9 Service area (in square miles) 9,400 10,000 End-users (in millions) 1.3 1.4 (a) Represents capitalization for Kentucky Regulated and rate base for Pennsylvania Regulated. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional financial information by segment. The sale of the U.K. utility business, which substantially represented PPL s U.K. Regulated segment as reported in prior years, was completed on June 14, 2021 , pursuant to a share purchase agreement entered into on March 17, 2021. As a result, PPL determined segment information for the U.K. Regulated segment would no longer be provided beginning with the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. (PPL Electric, LG E and KU) PPL Electric has two operating segments, distribution and transmission, which are aggregated into a single reportable segment. LG E and KU are individually single operating and reportable segments. Kentucky Regulated Segment (PPL) The Kentucky Regulated segment consists primarily of the regulated electricity generation, transmission and distribution operations conducted by LG E and KU, as well as LG E's regulated distribution and sale of natural gas. In addition, the Kentucky Regulated segment includes certain financing and other costs at LKE. (PPL, LG E and KU) LG E and KU are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, also Virginia. LG E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG E provides electricity service to approximately 429,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in nine counties and provides natural gas service to approximately 333,000 customers in its electricity service area and eight additional counties in Kentucky. KU provides electric service to approximately 538,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky and approximately 28,000 customers in five counties in southwestern Virginia, covering approximately 4,800 non-contiguous square miles. KU also sells wholesale electricity to two municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for revenue information. Franchises and Licenses LG E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG E provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities. 4 Table of Contents Competition There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electricity service areas of LG E and KU. From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments. Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky. The nature or timing of legislative or regulatory actions, if any, regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LG E and KU, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted. Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation. KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated. Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels indirectly impact LG E's natural gas revenues. Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users. LG E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity. Therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact LG E's profitability. Some large industrial and commercial customers, however, may physically bypass LG E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems. Power Supply At December 31, 2021, LG E owned generating capacity of 2,760 MW and KU owned generating capacity of 4,775 MW. See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of generating facilities. The system capacity of LG E's and KU's owned generation is based upon several factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances. During 2021, LG E's and KU's power plants generated the following amounts of electricity: GWh Fuel Source LG E KU Coal 10,297 14,718 Gas 1,395 4,382 Hydro 263 89 Solar 7 12 Total (a) 11,962 19,201 (a) This generation represents increases for LG E and KU of 4% and 5% from 2020 output. The majority of LG E's and KU's generated electricity was used to supply their retail customer bases. LG E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their customers. When LG E has excess generation capacity after serving its own customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG E and vice versa. Due to environmental requirements and energy efficiency measures, as of December 31, 2021, LG E and KU have retired approximately 1,200 MW of coal-fired generation plants since 2010. LG E and KU received approval from the KPSC to develop a 4 MW Solar Share facility to service a Solar Share program. The Solar Share program is a voluntary program that allows customers to subscribe capacity in the Solar Share facility. Construction commences, in 500-kilowatt phases, when subscription is complete. Construction of four 500-kilowatt phases was completed as of December 31, 2021. The subscription for the fifth 500-kilowatt phase was completed with construction expected to be completed in 2022. LG E and KU continue to market the program and have started receiving subscriptions for the sixth 500-kilowatt phase. On January 23, 2020, LG E and KU applied to the KPSC for approval of arrangements relating to the purchase of 100 MW of solar power in connection with the Green Tariff option established in the 2018 Kentucky base rate cases. Pursuant to the agreements, LG E and KU would purchase the initial 20 years of output of a proposed third-party solar generation facility and resell the bulk of the power as renewable energy to two large industrial customers and use the remaining power for other customers. The generation facility is currently expected to be operational in the second quarter of 2023. On May 8, 2020, the KPSC issued an order approving LG E s and KU s applications with certain modifications. LG E and KU requested reconsideration of limited portions of the KPSC's Order and on December 16, 2020, the KPSC amended their original order. 5 Table of Contents PPL, LG E and KU do not anticipate that these arrangements will have a significant impact on their results of operations or financial condition. On October 6, 2021, LG E and KU entered into an agreement to purchase the initial 20 years of output of a proposed 125 MW third-party solar generation facility in connection with the Green Tariff option established in the 2018 Kentucky base rate cases. Pursuant to the agreements, LG E and KU would purchase output of the facility and resell power as renewable energy to certain large customers. The generation facility is currently expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2024. PPL, LG E and KU do not anticipate that this agreement will have a significant impact on their results of operations or financial condition. Fuel Supply Coal and natural gas are expected to be the predominant fuels used by LG E and KU for generation for the foreseeable future. Natural gas used for generation is primarily purchased using contractual arrangements separate from LG E's natural gas distribution operations. Natural gas and oil are also used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers. Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units. Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by several factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues, high or low river level events, lock outages and other supplier or transporter operating or financial difficulties. LG E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2026 and augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed. For their existing units, LG E and KU expect, for the foreseeable future, to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana, southern Illinois, northern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania. LG E and KU continue to purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at Trimble County Unit 2. Coal is delivered to the generating plants primarily by barge and rail. To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG E and KU have secured firm long-term pipeline transport capacity services with contracts of various durations through 2024 on the interstate pipeline serving Cane Run Unit 7. This pipeline also serves the six simple cycle combustion turbine units located at the Trimble County site as well as two other simple cycle units at the Paddy's Run site. For the seven simple cycle combustion turbines at the E.W. Brown facility, no firm long-term pipeline transport capacity has been purchased due to the facility's connection to two interstate pipelines and some of the units having dual fuel capability. LG E and KU have firm contracts for a portion of the natural gas fuel for Cane Run Unit 7 through October 2024. The bulk of the natural gas fuel remains purchased on the spot market. (PPL and LG E) Natural Gas Distribution Supply Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 billion cubic feet (Bcf), are used to provide natural gas service to LG E's firm sales customers. Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following winter heating season. Without this storage capacity, LG E would need to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation services are expected to be higher. At December 31, 2021, LG E had 12 Bcf of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $54 million. LG E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying durations and terms that provide competitively priced natural gas designed to meet its firm sales obligations. These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive. In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG E's natural gas customers. LG E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines. LG E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG E between 2023 and 2026. Total winter season capacity under these contracts is 184,900 MMBtu/day and summer season capacity is 60,000 MMBtu/day. With this same pipeline, LG E also has another contract for 6 Table of Contents pipeline capacity through 2026 for 60,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons. LG E has a single contract with a second pipeline with a total capacity of 20,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons that expires in 2023. LG E expects to purchase natural gas supplies for its gas distribution operations from onshore producing regions in South Texas, East Texas, North Louisiana and Arkansas, as well as gas originating in the Marcellus and Utica production areas. (PPL, LG E and KU) Transmission LG E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority to act as their transmission reliability coordinator and contract with TranServ International, Inc. to act as their independent transmission organization. Rates LG E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, FERC and VSCC. LG E and KU operate under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff. LG E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments and costs recovered separately through other means. As such, LG E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets in Kentucky. KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities, except for regulatory assets and liabilities related to the levelized fuel factor, accumulated deferred income taxes, pension and postretirement benefits, and AROs related to certain CCR impoundments, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates, no return is earned on the related assets. KU's rates to municipal customers for wholesale power requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a formula rate that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities, except accumulated deferred income taxes, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates, no return is earned on the related assets. In April 2014, certain municipalities submitted notices of termination to cease taking power under the wholesale requirements contracts. KU's service to eight municipalities terminated effective April 30, 2019. KU continues to provide service to two municipalities. See "Financial and Operational Developments" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information on current rate proceedings and rate mechanisms. Pennsylvania Regulated Segment (PPL) The Pennsylvania Regulated segment consists of PPL Electric, a regulated public utility engaged in the distribution and transmission of electricity. (PPL and PPL Electric) PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties within eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric also provides electricity to retail customers in this territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for revenue information. Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies which it has succeeded, and as a result of certification by the PUC. PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions. In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth. 7 Table of Contents Competition Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area. Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electricity distribution business. Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, generation of electricity is a competitive business in Pennsylvania, and PPL Electric does not own or operate any generation facilities. The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM. Rates and Regulation Transmission PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electricity transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S. PJM serves as a FERC-approved Regional Transmission Operator (RTO) to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves. In addition to operating the electricity transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services. A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets. Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities. Certain types of transmission investments are subject to competitive processes outlined in the PJM tariff. As a transmission owner, PPL Electric's transmission revenues are recovered through PJM and billed in accordance with a FERC-approved Open Access Transmission Tariff that allows recovery of incurred transmission costs, a return on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update based on a formula-based rate recovery mechanism. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in June of each year based upon prior year actual expenditures and current year forecasted capital additions. Rates are then adjusted the following year to reflect actual annual expenses and capital additions, as reported in PPL Electric s annual FERC Form 1, filed under the FERC s Uniform System of Accounts. Any difference between the revenue requirement in effect for the prior year and actual expenditures incurred for that year is recorded as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability. Any change in the prior year PPL zonal peak load billing factor applied on January 1 of each year will result in an increase or decrease in revenue until the next annual rate update is effective on June 1 of that same year. As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases transmission services from PJM. See "PLR" below. See "Financial and Operational Developments" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms and regulatory matters. Distribution PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions). All regulatory assets and liabilities, except accumulated deferred income taxes, are excluded from the return on rate base. Therefore, no return is earned on the related assets unless specifically provided for by the PUC. Currently, PPL Electric's Smart Meter rider and the DSIC are the only riders authorized to earn a return. Certain operating expenses are also included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates including wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and taxes. Pennsylvania's Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard (AEPS) requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain from alternative energy resources a portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania. Under the default service procurement plans approved by the PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS. Act 129 created an energy efficiency and conservation program, a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies for market misconduct and changes to the existing AEPS. 8 Table of Contents Act 11 authorizes the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, the use of a DSIC. Such alternative ratemaking procedures and mechanisms provide opportunity for accelerated cost-recovery and, therefore, are important to PPL Electric as it is in a period of significant capital investment to maintain and enhance the reliability of its delivery system, including the replacement of aging assets. PPL Electric utilized the fully projected future test year mechanism in its 2015 base rate proceeding. PPL has had the ability to utilize the DSIC recovery mechanism since July 2013. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms and legislative and regulatory matters. PLR The Customer Choice Act requires electric distribution companies, including PPL Electric, or an alternative supplier approved by the PUC, to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by the PLR pursuant to PUC regulations. In 2021, the following average percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided by competitive suppliers: 39% of residential, 79% of small commercial and industrial and 98% of large commercial and industrial customers. The PUC continues to favor expanding the competitive market for electricity. PPL Electric s electricity generation costs are established based upon the results of a competitive solicitation process. On December 17, 2020, the PUC approved PPL Electric s default service plan for the period June 1, 2021 through May 31, 2025, which includes a total of eight solicitations for electricity supply held semiannually in April and October. The first two auctions of the plan were completed in 2021. This plan also includes eight solicitations for alternative energy credits held semiannually in January and July. Through January 2022, two alternative energy credit solicitations have been completed. All contracts from previous default service plans concluded on or before November 30, 2021. Pursuant to the plans, PPL Electric contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, commercial and industrial customers who elect to take default service from PPL Electric. These solicitations contain a mix of products including 5-year block energy contracts for residential customers, 6- and 12-month fixed-price load-following contracts for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, 12-month real-time pricing contracts for large commercial and industrial customers, and alternative energy credit contracts for residential, commercial and industrial customers. These contracts fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity supply as a PLR. Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service area. As the cost of generation supply is a pass-through cost for PPL Electric, its financial results are not impacted if its customers purchase electricity supply from these alternative suppliers. Corporate and Other (PPL) PPL Services provides PPL subsidiaries with administrative, management and support services. The costs of these services are charged directly to the respective recipients for the services provided or indirectly charged to applicable recipients based on an average of the recipients' relative invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees or a ratio of overall direct and indirect costs. PPL Capital Funding provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries. PPL's growth in rate-regulated businesses provides the organization with an enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that enables PPL to cost effectively support targeted credit profiles across all of PPL's rated companies. As a result, PPL utilizes PPL Capital Funding as a source of capital in financings, in addition to continued direct financing by certain operating subsidiaries. Unlike PPL Services, PPL Capital Funding's costs are not generally charged to PPL subsidiaries. Costs are charged directly to PPL. However, PPL Capital Funding participated significantly in the financing for the acquisition of LKE and certain associated financing costs were allocated to the Kentucky Regulated Segment. Prior to 2021, the associated financing costs, as well as the financing costs associated with prior issuances of certain other PPL Capital Funding securities, were assigned to the appropriate segments for purposes of PPL management's assessment of segment performance. In 2021, corporate level financing costs are no longer allocated to the reportable segments. The financing costs associated primarily with PPL Capital Funding's securities issuances, with certain exceptions, have not been directly assigned or allocated to any segment. The financial results of Safari Energy are also reported within Corporate and Other. 9 Table of Contents ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS (All Registrants) The Registrants are subject to certain existing and developing federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land use and other environmental matters, and may be subject to different and more stringent such laws and regulations enacted in the future. The EPA and other federal agencies with jurisdiction over environmental matters have issued numerous environmental regulations relating to air, water and waste that directly affect the electric power industry. Due to these environmental issues, it may be necessary for the Registrants to modify or cease certain operations or operation of certain facilities to comply with statutes, regulations and other requirements of regulatory bodies or courts. In addition, legal challenges to environmental permits or rules add uncertainty to