Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 40 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 53 Item 2. Properties 53 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 54 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 54 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 54 Item 6. [Reserved] 55 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 149 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 155 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 307 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 307 Item 9B. Other Information 307 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 307 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 307 Item 11. Executive Compensation 307 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 307 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 308 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 309 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 309 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 320 GLOSSARY 321 EXHIBIT INDEX 324 SIGNATURES 330 Forward-Looking Statements Certain of the statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, believes, anticipates, includes, plans, assumes, estimates, projects, intends, should, will, shall or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management s current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, financial markets and our business; (2) losses on investments or financial contracts due to deterioration in credit quality or value, or counterparty default; (3) losses on insurance products due to mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience that differs significantly from our expectations when we price our products; (4) changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates that may (a) adversely impact the profitability of our products, the value of separate accounts supporting these products or the value of assets we manage, (b) result in losses on derivatives we use to hedge risk or increase collateral posting requirements and (c) limit opportunities to invest at appropriate returns; (5) guarantees within certain of our products which are market sensitive and may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position; (6) liquidity needs resulting from (a) derivative collateral market exposure, (b) asset/liability mismatches, (c) the lack of available funding in the financial markets or (d) unexpected cash demands due to severe mortality calamity or lapse events; (7) financial or customer losses, or regulatory and legal actions, due to inadequate or failed processes or systems, external events, and human error or misconduct such as (a) disruption of our systems and data, (b) an information security breach, (c) a failure to protect the privacy of sensitive data, (d) reliance on third-parties or (e) labor and employment matters; (8) changes in the regulatory landscape, including related to (a) financial sector regulatory reform, (b) changes in tax laws, (c) fiduciary rules and other standards of care, (d) U.S. state insurance laws and developments regarding group-wide supervision, capital and reserves, (e) insurer capital standards outside the U.S. and (f) privacy and cybersecurity regulation; (9) technological changes which may adversely impact companies in our investment portfolio or cause insurance experience to deviate from our assumptions; (10) an inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (11) ratings downgrades; (12) market conditions that may adversely affect the sales or persistency of our products; (13) competition; (14) reputational damage; (15) the costs, effects, timing, or success of our plans to execute our strategy; and (16) the integration of Assurance IQ, LLC into our strategy. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not undertake to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document. See Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of certain risks relating to our businesses and investment in our securities. Table of Contents Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Prudential Financial and the Registrant refer to Prudential Financial, Inc., the ultimate holding company for all of our companies. PICA refers to The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Prudential, the Company, we and our refer to our consolidated operations. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Table of Contents Page Overview 2 PGIM 3 Retirement 5 Group Insurance 7 Individual Annuities 9 Individual Life 11 Assurance IQ 13 International Businesses 15 Corporate and Other 17 Closed Block Division 18 Seasonality of Key Financial Items 19 Reinsurance 20 Intangible and Intellectual Property 21 Regulation 21 Human Capital Resources 37 Information About our Executive Officers 38 1 Table of Contents Overview Prudential Financial, Inc. ( Prudential Financial or PFI ), a global financial services leader and premier active global investment manager with approximately $1.742 trillion of assets under management as of December 31, 2021, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related products and services, mutual funds and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third-party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New Jersey, and Prudential Financial s Common Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol PRU . On December 18, 2001, The Prudential Insurance Company of America ( PICA ) converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under PICA s Plan of Reorganization, which required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known as the Closed Block . The Closed Block includes certain in-force participating insurance and annuity products and corresponding assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholders dividends on these products, as well as certain related assets and liabilities. Our principal operations consist of PGIM (our global investment management business), our U.S. Businesses (consisting of our Retirement, Group Insurance, Individual Annuities, Individual Life and Assurance IQ businesses), our International Businesses, the Closed Block division and our Corporate and Other operations. The Closed Block division is accounted for as a divested business that is reported separately from the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in Corporate and Other. Divested and Run-off Businesses are composed of businesses that have been, or will be, sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind-down status that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). Our Corporate and Other operations include corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments as well as the Divested and Run-off Businesses described above. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment. In October 2021, as part of the Company s multi-year business transformation effort, we announced the creation of Retirement Strategies, a new U.S. business that will serve the retirement needs of both individual and institutional customers. This business will bring the financial solutions and capabilities of our Individual Annuities business together with the institutional investment and pension solutions offered through our Retirement business. During the fourth quarter of 2021, the new leadership team was assembled and began making decisions regarding the business s operating structure. When this new structure is finalized and operational, the presentation of our segment results may be modified to conform to this new structure. Our strategy centers on our mix of high-quality protection, retirement and investment management businesses which creates growth potential due to earnings diversification and the opportunity to provide customers with integrated cross-business solutions, as well as capital benefits from a balanced risk profile. We are well-positioned to meet the needs of customers and tap into significant market opportunities through PGIM, our U.S. Businesses and our International Businesses. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. 2 Table of Contents PGIM Provides investment management services and solutions related to public fixed income, public equity, real estate debt and equity, private credit and other alternatives, and multi-asset class strategies, to institutional and retail clients globally, as well as our general account. Products Our products and services are offered through the following businesses: PGIM Fixed Income provides global active asset management services across public fixed income markets. Jennison Associates provides active fundamental public equity and fixed income asset management services across an array of growth, value, global and specialty equity strategies, as well as fixed income strategies. PGIM Quantitative Solutions provides a range of systematic, customized solutions across equity, multi-asset, and liquid alternative platforms. PGIM Private Capital provides private credit solutions across the risk spectrum including investment grade, high yield, direct lending and mezzanine financing. PGIM Real Estate provides a broad range of public and private real estate debt and equity strategies and provides private equity investments with a focus on secondary transactions in the small and mid-cap market. PGIM Investments offers actively managed investment solutions, including mutual funds, exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ) and separately managed accounts to individual investors and financial intermediaries in the U.S., as well as Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities ( UCITS ) and other investment solutions to financial intermediaries in select countries across Europe, Asia and Latin America. Additionally, operates local asset management businesses in Taiwan and India and has interests in an operating joint venture in China. We hold seed and co-investments in some of our investment products to either (i) seed new products or investment strategies in order to develop a track record prior to obtaining third-party investments, or (ii) co-invest alongside clients in PGIM-managed funds to demonstrate that our interests are aligned with theirs. Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through the following channels: Institutional Proprietary sales force for each PGIM business with independent marketing and client service teams. PGIM s Institutional Relationship Group, which develops relationships with, and introduces PGIM s broad capabilities to, large institutions globally. Retail Third-party intermediaries and product manufacturers/distributors globally who include our investment options in their products and platforms. Distribution channels associated with other Prudential business segments. Licensed sales professionals within Prudential Advisors, Prudential s proprietary nationwide sales organization. General Account Provide investment management services across a broad array of asset classes for our general account. 3 Table of Contents PGIM (Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come from: Asset management fees, which are typically calculated based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on the managed assets exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees earned in connection with the structuring, sale or purchase of assets, primarily related to real estate and private fixed income. Investment returns from seed and co-investments. Revenues from commercial mortgage origination and servicing. Our profitability is substantially impacted by: Macro market movements (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads and equity market performance). Our ability to achieve investment returns above the target benchmarks. Our ability to attract and retain client investments. Competition We compete with numerous asset managers and other financial institutions. For our investment management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including investment performance, strategy and process, talent, organizational stability and client relationships. We offer products across multiple asset classes, with specialized investment teams that employ approaches designed to add value in each product area or asset class. Our organizational stability and robust institutional and retail businesses have helped attract and retain talent critical to delivering investment results for clients. Our private credit and commercial real estate lending businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of our relationship with the borrower. 4 Table of Contents U.S. Businesses Retirement Develops and distributes retirement investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors, both domestically and internationally in the United Kingdom. Products We offer a variety of institutional investment and pension products and solutions: Payout Annuities : products that provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the annuitant. Pension risk transfer non-participating group annuity insurance and reinsurance contracts issued to pension plan sponsors and intermediaries, under which we assume all investment and actuarial risk associated with a group of specified participants within a plan in return for a premium typically paid as a lump-sum at inception. Pension risk transfer longevity reinsurance contracts with counterparties from which we earn a fee for assuming the longevity risk of pension plans that have been insured by third-parties. Premiums for these products are typically paid over the duration of the contract as opposed to a lump-sum at inception. Stable Value : products where our obligations are backed by our general account, and where we bear some or all of the investment and asset-liability management risk, depending on the product. Investment-only products for use in institutional capital markets and qualified plans primarily including fee-based wraps through which customers funds are held in a client-owned trust and investment results pass through to the customer. We earn fee revenue for providing a guaranteed minimum interest rate backed by the general account. Guaranteed Investment Contracts and Funding Agreements contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. Other products : includes structured settlements and other group annuities. Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through the following channels: Pension risk transfer through actuarial consultants and third-party brokers. Structured settlements through third-party specialized brokers. Voluntary income products and other group annuities directly to plan sponsors. Stable value products through our proprietary sales force and third-party intermediaries. 5 Table of Contents Retirement (Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums associated with insurance and reinsurance contracts and our payout annuities. Policy charges and fee income based on account values of our fee-based stable value and longevity reinsurance products. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, fees, expenses, profitability targets, and assumptions for mortality and potential for early retirement. These assumptions may be less predictable in certain markets. Competition We compete with other large, well-established insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions. We compete primarily based on: Pricing. Structuring capabilities. Our ability to offer innovative product solutions and successfully execute large-scale transactions. We are a leader in providing innovative pension risk management solutions to plan sponsors and in the stable value market. We believe the pension risk transfer market continues to offer attractive opportunities that are aligned with our expertise. 6 Table of Contents U.S. Businesses Group Insurance Develops and distributes a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee and membership benefits plans. Also sells accidental death and dismemberment and other supplemental health solutions and provides plan administration services in connection with its insurance coverages. Products We offer a variety of products through non-experience rated contracts (where we assume all mortality/morbidity risk) and experience rated contracts (where mortality/morbidity experience is shared between us and the clients), and services through the following businesses: Group Life Insurance Employer-paid, employee-paid and member-paid coverages for term life insurance, group universal life, group variable universal life, basic and optional accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Certain coverages allow employees to retain their coverage when they change employers or retire, and we offer waiver of premium coverage in the event the insured suffers a qualifying disability. Group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the form of group variable life insurance contracts utilizing separate accounts. These products are typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees. Group Disability Insurance Short-term and long-term group disability insurance, which protect against loss of wages due to illness or injury. Short-term disability generally provides weekly benefits for three to six months while long-term disability benefits are typically paid monthly, following a waiting period, and generally continue until the insured returns to work or reaches normal retirement age. Plan administration and absence management services. Other supplemental health solutions, including accident and critical illness insurance. Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through a proprietary sales force organized around market segments in conjunction with employee benefit brokers and consultants. We define our market segments as follows: National large corporations and other organizations having over 5,000 individuals. Premier corporations and other organizations that have between 100 and 5,000 individuals. Association affinity groups, regardless of size. 7 Table of Contents Group Insurance (Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums and policy charges for our group life and group disability products. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products, many of which include multiple year premium rate guarantees. We price our products based on: Underwriting practices and rating systems that consider company, industry and/or other experience. The expected pay-out of benefits and other costs that we calculate using assumptions for mortality and morbidity rates, interest rates and expenses, depending upon the specific product features. Competition We compete with other large, well-established life and health insurance providers in mature markets. We compete primarily based on brand recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial strength, our range of product offerings and price. Our pricing of group insurance products is reflective of the large number of competitors in the marketplace. The majority of our premiums are derived from the National segment and we are seeking to grow our Premier and Association segments. Employee-paid coverage is important as employers attempt to control costs and shift benefit decisions and funding to employees who continue to value workplace benefits. Our profitability is dependent, in part, on the voluntary coverage marketplace, which will be affected by future employment and compensation rates. 8 Table of Contents U.S. Businesses Individual Annuities Develops and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to U.S. mass affluent (households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000) and affluent (households with investable assets in excess of $250,000) customers with a focus on innovative product design and risk management strategies. Products We offer a variety of products to serve different retirement needs and goals: Indexed Variable Annuities The Prudential FlexGuard indexed variable annuity, offers the contractholder an opportunity to allocate funds to variable subaccounts and index-based strategies. The strategies provide interest or an interest component linked to, but not an investment in, the selected index, and its performance over the elected term, subject to certain contractual minimums and maximums, and also provides varying levels of downside protection at pre-determined levels and durations. The product also allows for additional deposits and provides a Return of Purchase Payment ( ROP ) death benefit at no additional charge. The Prudential FlexGuard Income indexed variable annuity, launched in 2021, offers similar investment and crediting features as The Prudential FlexGuard product, with a focus on income protection by providing a protected income benefit for an additional fee. Crediting strategies are limited during the income phase. Traditional Variable Annuities The Prudential Premier Investment Variable Annuity ( PPI ) offers tax-deferred asset accumulation, annuitization options and an optional death benefit that guarantees the contractholder s beneficiary a return of total purchase payments made to the contract, adjusted for any partial withdrawals, upon death. MyRock Advisors, a fee-based variable annuity that offers an optional Dynamic Income Benefit ( IB ) rider that provides longevity protection through a preset withdrawal percentage applied to a variable income base. In addition, the product offers either a basic death benefit or an ROP death benefit. Both the IB and the ROP are available for an additional fee. Other Traditional Variable Annuities (Sales Discontinued as of December 31, 2020) The Prudential Premier Retirement Variable Annuity with Highest Daily Lifetime Income ( HDI ) offers lifetime income based on the highest daily account value plus a compounded deferral credit. The Prudential Defined Income SM ( PDI ) Variable Annuity provides for guaranteed lifetime withdrawal payments but restricts contractholder investment to a single bond sub-account within the separate accounts. PDI includes a living benefit rider which provides for a specified lifetime income withdrawal rate applied to total purchase payments made to the contract, subject to annual roll-up increases until lifetime withdrawals commence. The Prudential Premier Retirement Variable Annuity with Legacy Protection Plus ( LPP ) provides an optional enhanced death benefit based on the purchase payments rolling up at a preset rate on an annual basis until certain events occur. Products (continued) Fixed Annuities PruSecure , SurePath and SurePath Income, all single premium fixed indexed annuities, offer flexibility to allocate account balances between an index-based strategy and a fixed rate strategy. The index-based strategy provides interest or an interest component linked to, but not an investment in, the selected index, and its performance over the elected term (i.e., 1, 3 or 5 years for PruSecure and 1 or 3 years for SurePath and SurePath Income), subject to certain contractual minimums and maximums. The fixed rate strategy, not associated with an index, offers a guaranteed growth at a set interest rate for one year and can be renewed annually. Additionally, SurePath Income offers a benefit that provides for guaranteed lifetime withdrawal payments. The Prudential Fixed Annuity with Daily Advantage Income Benefit ( DAI ), a single premium fixed annuity, provides principal protection as well as a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal income payment for an additional fee. The lifetime income amount increases daily without exposure to the equity market until the contractholder begins taking withdrawals. The Prudential Immediate Income Annuity ( PIIA ), a single premium immediate annuity, provides a regular stream of benefit payments. The payments are guaranteed, cannot be changed and are higher than those guaranteed on products that provide liquidity. Marketing and Distribution Our distribution efforts, which are supported by a network of internal and external wholesalers, are executed through a diverse group of distributors, including: Third-party distribution through: Broker-dealers; Banks and wirehouses; Independent financial planners; and Independent Marketing Organizations ( IMO ) (specifically for SurePath and SurePath Income). Financial professionals associated with Prudential Advisors, Prudential s proprietary nationwide sales organization. LINK by Prudential, a personalized digital platform that connects customers to insurance professionals, through various channels (online, phone, video chat, or in person). 9 Table of Contents Individual Annuities (Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Fee income from asset management fees and service fees, which represent administrative service and distribution fees from many of our proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds. The asset management fees are determined as a percentage of the average assets of our proprietary mutual funds in our variable annuity products (net of sub-advisory expenses related to non-proprietary sub-advisors). Policy charges and fee income representing mortality, expense and other fees for various insurance-related options and features based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts, account value, premium, or guaranteed value, as applicable. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on certain products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on: An evaluation of the risks assumed and consideration of applicable risk management strategies, including hedging and reinsurance costs. Assumptions regarding investment returns and contractholder behavior, including persistency, benefit utilization and the timing and efficiency of withdrawals for contracts with living benefit features, as well as other assumptions. Competition We are among the industry s largest providers of individual annuities and we compete with other providers of retirement savings and accumulation products, including large, well-established insurance and financial services companies. We believe our competitive advantage lies primarily in our innovative product features and our risk management strategies as well as brand recognition, financial strength, the breadth of our distribution platform and our customer service capabilities. We periodically adjust product offerings, prices and features based on the market and our strategy, with a goal of achieving customer and enterprise value. 10 Table of Contents U.S. Businesses Individual Life Develops and distributes variable life, term life and universal life insurance products primarily to U.S. mass middle (households with investable assets in excess of $25,000 or annual income in excess of $50,000), mass affluent (households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000) and affluent (households with investable assets in excess of $250,000) customers with a focus on pro