Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 37 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 49 Item 2. Properties 49 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 50 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 50 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 50 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 51 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 53 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 143 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 148 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 309 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 309 Item 9B. Other Information 309 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 309 Item 11. Executive Compensation 310 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 310 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 310 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 311 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 311 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 322 GLOSSARY 323 EXHIBIT INDEX 326 SIGNATURES 331 Forward-Looking Statements Certain of the statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, believes, anticipates, includes, plans, assumes, estimates, projects, intends, should, will, shall or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management s current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) losses on investments or financial contracts due to deterioration in credit quality or value, or counterparty default; (2) losses on insurance products due to mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience that differs significantly from our expectations when we price our products; (3) changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates that may (a) adversely impact the profitability of our products, the value of separate accounts supporting these products or the value of assets we manage, (b) result in losses on derivatives we use to hedge risk or increase collateral posting requirements and (c) limit opportunities to invest at appropriate returns; (4) guarantees within certain of our products which are market sensitive and may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position; (5) liquidity needs resulting from (a) derivative collateral market exposure, (b) asset/liability mismatches, (c) the lack of available funding in the financial markets or (d) unexpected cash demands due to severe mortality calamity or lapse events; (6) financial or customer losses, or regulatory and legal actions, due to inadequate or failed processes or systems, external events, and human error or misconduct such as (a) disruption of our systems and data, (b) an information security breach, (c) a failure to protect the privacy of sensitive data, (d) reliance on third-parties or (e) labor and employment matters; (7) changes in the regulatory landscape, including related to (a) financial sector regulatory reform, (b) changes in tax laws, (c) fiduciary rules and other standards of care, (d) U.S. state insurance laws and developments regarding group-wide supervision, capital and reserves, (e) insurer capital standards outside the U.S. and (f) privacy and cybersecurity regulation; (8) technological changes which may adversely impact companies in our investment portfolio or cause insurance experience to deviate from our assumptions; (9) an inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (10) ratings downgrades; (11) market conditions that may adversely affect the sales or persistency of our products; (12) competition; (13) reputational damage; (14) the costs, effects, timing, or success of our plans to accelerate our strategy; and (15) costs associated with the acquisition of Assurance IQ, Inc. and its integration into our strategy. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not undertake to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document. See Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of certain risks relating to our businesses and investment in our securities. Table of Contents Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Prudential Financial and the Registrant refer to Prudential Financial, Inc., the ultimate holding company for all of our companies. PICA refers to The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Prudential, the Company, we and our refer to our consolidated operations. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Table of Contents Page Overview 2 PGIM 3 Retirement 5 Group Insurance 7 Individual Annuities 9 Individual Life 11 Assurance IQ 13 International Businesses 15 Corporate and Other 17 Closed Block Division 18 Seasonality of Key Financial Items 19 Reinsurance 20 Intangible and Intellectual Property 20 Regulation 21 Information About our Executive Officers 35 1 Table of Contents Overview Prudential Financial, Inc., a financial wellness leader and premier global investment manager with approximately $1.551 trillion of assets under management as of December 31, 2019, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related products and services, mutual funds and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third-party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New Jersey, and Prudential Financial s Common Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol PRU . On December 18, 2001, PICA converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under PICA s Plan of Reorganization, which required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known as the Closed Block. The Closed Block includes certain in-force participating insurance and annuity products and corresponding assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholders dividends on these products, as well as certain related assets and liabilities. Our principal operations are comprised of PGIM (our global investment management business), our U.S. Businesses (consisting of our U.S. Workplace Solutions, U.S. Individual Solutions, and Assurance IQ divisions), our International Businesses, the Closed Block division and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Workplace Solutions division consists of our Retirement and Group Insurance businesses, the U.S. Individual Solutions division consists of our Individual Annuities and Individual Life businesses, and the Assurance IQ division consists of our Assurance IQ business. In October 2019, we completed the acquisition of Assurance IQ, Inc. ( Assurance IQ ), a leading consumer solutions platform that offers a range of solutions that help meet consumers financial needs (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). The Closed Block division is accounted for as a divested business that is reported separately from the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in Corporate and Other. Divested and Run-off Businesses are comprised of businesses that have been, or will be, sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down status that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). Our Corporate and Other operations include corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments and businesses that have been or will be divested or placed in run-off, excluding the Closed Block division. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment. Our strategy centers on our mix of high-quality protection, retirement and investment management businesses which creates growth potential due to earnings diversification and the opportunity to provide customers with integrated cross-business solutions, as well as capital benefits from a balanced risk profile. We are well-positioned to meet the needs of customers and tap into significant market opportunities through PGIM, our U.S. Businesses and our International Businesses. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. 2 Table of Contents PGIM Provides asset management services related to public and private fixed income, public equity and real estate, commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and mutual funds and other retail services to institutional, private and sub-advisory clients (including mutual funds), insurance company separate accounts, government-sponsored entities (e.g., Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration and Freddie Mac) and our general account. Products Our products and services are offered through the following eight businesses: PGIM Fixed Income - provides global active asset management services across all public fixed income markets. Jennison Associates - provides active fundamental public equity and fixed income asset management services across an array of high-quality fixed income and growth, value, blend, global and specialty equity strategies. QMA - provides systematic quantitative equity and global multi-asset strategies as well as customized client solutions. PGIM Private Capital - provides private corporate financing across the risk spectrum including investment grade, high yield and mezzanine, and offers a variety of products to its investors. PGIM Real Estate Finance - provides commercial mortgage origination and asset management services. PGIM Real Estate - provides a broad range of public and private real estate equity investment services utilizing deep knowledge of local and regional markets. PGIM Investments - develops, distributes and services investment management products primarily utilizing PGIM s proprietary asset management expertise in the U.S. and European retail markets and offering a suite of retail investment products covering a wide array of investment styles and objectives. PGIM Global Partners - operates an asset management business in Taiwan and India, and has interests in asset management operating joint ventures in China and Italy. Each of these businesses offers mutual funds and serves individual and institutional investors and clients. We hold seed and co-investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including private equity, hedge funds and real estate assets. Investments are generally made for co-investment purposes, to establish a track record or for regulatory purposes. Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through the following channels: Institutional Proprietary sales force of each PGIM business with independent marketing and client service teams. PGIM s Institutional Relationship Group, which develops relationships with, and introduces PGIM s broad capabilities to, large institutions globally. Institutional asset management services through the Retirement segment. Retail Assets under management from distribution channels associated with other Prudential business segments. Third-party networks and product manufacturers/distributors who include our investment options in their products and platforms. Licensed sales professionals within Prudential Advisors, Prudential s proprietary nationwide sales organization. General account Provide investment management services across a broad array of asset classes for our general account. 3 Table of Contents PGIM(Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come from: Asset management fees which are typically calculated based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on the managed assets exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees earned as a percentage of the transaction price associated with the sale or purchase of assets in certain funds, primarily related to real estate and private fixed income. Investment returns from strategic investing. Revenues from commercial mortgage origination and servicing. Our profitability is substantially impacted by: Macro market movements (e.g., interest rates and equity market performance). Our ability to achieve investment returns above the target benchmarks. Our ability to attract and retain customer investments. Competition We compete with numerous asset managers and other financial institutions. For our investment management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including investment performance, strategy and process, talent, organizational stability and client relationships. We offer products across multiple asset classes, with specialized investment teams that employ approaches designed to add value in each product area or asset class. Our organizational stability and robust institutional and retail businesses have helped attract and retain talent critical to delivering investment results for clients. Our private placement and commercial mortgage businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of our relationship with the borrower. 4 Table of Contents U.S. Businesses U.S. Workplace Solutions Division Retirement Develops and distributes retirement investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors. Products We offer a variety of products and services through the following two businesses: Full Service A broad range of products and services to assist in the design, delivery and administration of defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified retirement plans, and retail Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRA ). Recordkeeping and administrative services, actuarial consulting services, tailored participant education and communication services, comprehensive investment offerings and consulting services to assist retirement plan sponsors in managing fiduciary obligations. General Account and Separate Account Stable Value products - generally contain an obligation to credit interest at a specified rate for a specified period of time and to repay account balances over time, or market value upon contract termination. These products are either fully or partially participating with annual or semi-annual rate resets subject to certain contractual minimums, giving effect to previous investment experience and other factors depending on the products. Other investment products - include fee-based products through which customer funds are held in separate accounts, retail mutual funds, institutional funds or bank collective trusts advised by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers, as well as synthetic guaranteed investment contracts, and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit products. Institutional Investment Products Payout Annuities: products that provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the annuitant. Pension risk transfer - non-participating group annuity insurance contracts issued to pension plan sponsors under which we assume all investment and actuarial risk associated with a group of specified participants within a plan in return for a premium typically paid as a lump-sum at inception. Pension risk transfer - longevity reinsurance contracts with counterparties from which we earn a fee for assuming the longevity risk of pension plans that have been insured by third-parties. Premiums for these products are typically paid over the duration of the contract as opposed to a lump-sum at inception. (continued) Products (continued) Stable Value: products where our obligations are backed by our general account, and we bear some or all of the investment and asset-liability management risk, depending on the product. Investment-only products - for use in institutional capital markets and qualified plans primarily including fee-based wraps through which customers funds are held in a client-owned trust and investment results pass through to the customer. We earn fee revenue for providing a minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account. Guaranteed Investment Contracts and Funding Agreements - contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. Other products: include structured settlements and other group annuities. Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through the following channels for the two businesses: Full Service Proprietary sales and support teams Third-party financial advisors, brokers, benefits consultants, and investment consultants Direct to plan sponsors Institutional Investment Products Pension risk transfer through actuarial consultants and third-party brokers. Structured settlements through third-party specialized brokers. Voluntary income products and other group annuities through the defined contribution portion of our full service business and direct to plan sponsors. Stable value products through proprietary sales force and third-party intermediaries. 5 Table of Contents Retirement (Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums associated with insurance and reinsurance contracts and our payout annuities. Policy charges and fee income associated with recordkeeping and other administrative services, and investment products (including fee-based stable value) that we offer. Policy charges and fee income are primarily based on account values and/or number of participants. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on certain stable value products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, fees, expenses, profitability targets, and assumptions for mortality and potential for early retirement. These assumptions may be less predictable in certain markets. Deviations in actual experience from pricing could affect the profitability of these products. Competition We compete with other large, well-established insurance companies, asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. Full Service - we compete primarily based on: Pricing Breadth of our service and investment offerings Expertise of our employees Investment performance Technology Our ability to offer product features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients While we continue to have heightened pricing pressures (driven by competition, contractual limits on fee income, the influence of intermediaries and regulations requiring more standard and consistent fee disclosures across industry providers), this business has experienced strong persistency in recent years. Institutional Investment Products - we compete primarily based on: Pricing Structuring capabilities Our ability to offer innovative product solutions and successfully execute large-scale transactions We are a leader in providing innovative pension risk management solutions to plan sponsors and in the stable value market. We believe the pension risk transfer market continues to offer attractive opportunities that are aligned with our expertise. 6 Table of Contents U.S. Businesses U.S. Workplace Solutions Division Group Insurance Develops and distributes a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee and membership benefits plans. Also sells accidental death and dismemberment and other ancillary coverages, and provides plan administrative services in connection with its insurance coverages. Products We offer a variety of products and services through the following two businesses: Group Life Insurance Employer-paid and employee-paid coverages for term life insurance, group universal life, group variable universal life, basic and optional accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Many of our employee-paid coverages allow employees to retain their coverage when they change employers or retire, and we offer waiver of premium coverage where required premiums are waived in the event the insured suffers a qualifying disability. Group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance products in the form of group variable life insurance contracts utilizing separate accounts. These products are typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees. Group Disability Insurance Short-term and long-term group disability insurance which protects against loss of wages due to illness or injury. Short-term disability generally provides weekly benefits for three to six months while long-term disability benefits are typically paid monthly, following a waiting period and generally continue until the insured returns to work or reaches normal retirement age. Plan administration and absence management services. Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through a proprietary sales force organized around market segments in conjunction with employee benefit brokers and consultants. 7 Table of Contents Group Insurance (Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums and policy charges for our group life and group disability products. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products, many of which include multiple year premium rate guarantees. We price our products based on: Underwriting practices and rating systems that consider company, industry and/or other experience. The expected pay-out of benefits and other costs that we calculate using assumptions for mortality and morbidity rates, interest rates and expenses, depending upon the specific product features. Competition We compete with other large, well-established life and health insurance providers in mature markets. We compete primarily based on brand recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial strength, range of product offerings and price. Pricing of group insurance products is reflective of the large number of competitors in the marketplace. The majority of our premiums are derived from large corporations, affinity groups or other organizations having over 5,000 insured individuals, which we refer to as the National segment. We are also seeking to grow our client base with institutions that have between 100 and 5,000 individuals, which we refer to as the Premier segment. Employee-paid coverage is important as employers attempt to control costs and shift benefit decisions and funding to employees who continue to value benefits offered at the workplace. Our profitability is dependent, in part, on the voluntary coverage marketplace, which will be affected by future employment and compensation rates. 8 Table of Contents U.S. Businesses U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Annuities Develops and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to U.S. mass affluent (households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000) and affluent (households with investable assets in excess of $250,000) customers with a focus on innovative product design and risk management strategies. Products We offer a variety of products to serve different retirement needs and goals. Variable Annuities The Prudential Premier Retirement Variable Annuity with Highest Daily Lifetime Income ( HDI ) offers lifetime income based on the highest daily account value plus a compounded deferral credit. Prudential Defined Income ( PDI ) Variable Annuity provides for guaranteed lifetime withdrawal payments, but restricts contractholder investment to a single bond sub-account within the separate accounts. PDI includes a living benefit rider which provides for a specified lifetime income withdrawal rate applied to total purchase payments made to the contracts, subject to annual roll-up increases until lifetime withdrawals commence, but does not have a highest daily benefit feature as discussed above. Prudential Premier Investment Variable Annuity ( PPI ) offers tax-deferred asset accumulation, annuitization options and an optional death benefit that guarantees the contractholder s beneficiary a return of total purchase payments made to the contract, adjusted for any partial withdrawals, upon death. Prudential Premier Retirement Variable Annuity with Legacy Protection Plus ( LPP ) provides an optional enhanced death benefit based on the purchase payments rolling up at a preset rate on an annual basis until certain events occur, such as the death of the first owner (or annuitant if entity-owned) or the roll-up cap is reached. LPP cannot be elected together with any of the other optional living or death benefits we offer. MyRock SM Advisors, a fee-based variable annuity launched in August 2019, offers an elective Defined Income Benefit ( DIB ) rider which provides for specified lifetime income withdrawal rates applied to the purchase payments made to the contracts, subject to annual roll-up increases until lifetime withdrawals commence. In addition, the product offers both a basic death benefit, or a Return of Purchase Payment Death Benefit ( ROP ). Both the DIB and the ROP are available for an additional fee. Fixed Annuities PruSecure (launched in January 2018), and SurePath SM and SurePath SM Income (launched in July 2019), single premium fixed index annuities, offer flexibility to allocate account balances between an index-based strategy and a fixed rate strategy. The index-based strategy provides interest or an interest component linked to, but not an investment in, the selected index, and its performance over the elected term (i.e., 1, 3 or 5 years for PruSecure and 1 or 3 years for SurePath SM and SurePath SM Income), subject to certain contractual minimums and maximums. The fixed rate strategy, not associated with an index, offers a guaranteed growth at a set interest rate for one year and can be renewed annually. (continued) Products (continued) Fixed Annuities (continued) Additionally, SurePath SM Income offers a benefit which provides for guaranteed lifetime withdrawal payments. Prudential Immediate Income Annuity ( PIIA ), a single premium immediate annuity, provides a regular stream of benefit payments. The payments are guaranteed and cannot be changed, and are higher than those guaranteed on products that provide liquidity. Marketing and Distribution Our distribution efforts, which are supported by a network of internal and external wholesalers, are executed through a diverse group of distributors including: Third-party broker-dealers Banks and wirehouses Independent financial planners Financial professionals, including those associated with Prudential Advisors, Prudential s proprietary nationwide sales organization Independent Marketing Organizations ( IMO ) (specifically for SurePath SM and SurePath SM Income) LINK by Prudential, a direct-to-consumer advisory platform, that connects to customers, with the help of insurance professionals, through various channels (online, phone, video chat, or in person) 9 Table of Contents Individual Annuities (Continued) Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Fee income from asset management fees, as well as service fees, representing administrative service and distribution fees from many of our proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds. The asset management fees are determined as a percentage of the average assets of our proprietary mutual funds in our variable annuity products (net of sub-advisory expenses related to non-proprietary sub-advisors). Policy charges and fee income representing mortality, expense and other fees for various insurance-related options and features based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts, account value, premium, or guaranteed value, as applicable. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on certain of our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on: An evaluation of the risks assumed and consideration of applicable risk management strategies, including hedging and reinsurance costs. Assumptions regarding investment returns and contract