Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant&#x2019;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Reserved 19 Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 39 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 39 Item 9B. Other Information 40 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 40 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 41 Item 11. Executive Compensation 41 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 41 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 41 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 41 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 42 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 42 Exhibit Index 43 Signatures 45 APPENDIX A Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Boston, MA, PCAOB ID: 238 ) F-1 Consolidated Financial Statements F-4 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-9 Table of Contents Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, statements that are not historical facts, including but not limited to, statements about our anticipated financial results, capital development and growth, as well as about the development of our products, markets and workforce, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by use of the words &#x201c;believe,&#x201d; &#x201c;expect,&#x201d; &#x201c;intend,&#x201d; &#x201c;anticipate,&#x201d; &#x201c;estimate,&#x201d; &#x201c;project&#x201d; or similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans, expectations and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance. Factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed in Item 1A. &#x201c;Risk Factors&#x201d; and elsewhere throughout this Annual Report. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to a year reflect our fiscal year that ends on September 30. PART I ITEM 1. Bu siness Our Business PTC is a global software company that provides a portfolio of innovative digital solutions that work together to transform how physical products are engineered, manufactured, and serviced. Our software portfolio includes award-winning offerings in the computer-aided design (CAD) and product lifecycle management (PLM) markets. CAD is utilized for product data authoring and PLM is for product data management and process orchestration. Our software can be delivered on premises, in the cloud, or in a hybrid model. Our customer base includes some of the world's most innovative manufacturers in the aerospace and defense, automotive, electronics and high tech, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, retail and consumer products industries. We generate revenue through the sale of software subscriptions, which include license access and support (technical support and software updates); support for perpetual licenses; cloud services (hosting for our software and software-as-a-service (SaaS)); perpetual licenses; and professional services (consulting, implementation, and training). 1 Table of Contents Our Strategy There are three key elements to our strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value. Accelerate Digital Thread Solutions With our solutions, we enable companies to adopt a &#x201c;digital thread&#x201d; strategy to drive innovation and productivity. A digital thread manages product data and makes it accessible and useful to the right people, at the right time, and in the right context. This is particularly relevant for larger businesses pursuing a vertically integrated manufacturing strategy in which the reuse and repurposing of earlier innovations drives next generation product offerings. Accelerate Product Innovation We enable companies to upend the product development process with solutions that apply agile concepts, originally focused on software development, to the entire product innovation process, from software to hardware and electronics. By applying agile product development processes across all three disciplines, companies can increase innovation velocity and bring new products to market faster to meet rapidly changing market demand. This is particularly relevant for start-up and upstart businesses focused on technology-centered innovations that commonly leverage contract manufacturers for production of their designs. Accelerate SaaS Transformation Manufacturers today face a myriad of business challenges. Macroeconomic forces, such as an ever-evolving workforce, supply chain disruptions, the rise of smart, connected products, and the need to prove sustainability, are all driving the need for change. We enable companies to respond to these challenges with technology that leverages the cloud to transform how, where, and when work gets done. Software-as-a-service (SaaS), which has already reshaped nearly all aspects of business, is poised to transform management of the entire product lifecycle. Anticipating this need, PTC acquired the Onshape and Arena cloud-native product development solutions. In parallel, we are heavily investing to transform our technology portfolio to SaaS. Strategic Transactions During FY'22, we completed two strategic transactions. In Q3'22, we acquired the Codebeamer TM application lifecycle management business to broaden and deepen our ALM footprint across safety-critical and regulated industries. In Q3'22, we also sold a portion of our PLM services business to ITC Infotech. The transaction is designed to accelerate customer digital transformation initiatives and adoption of our Windchill+ SaaS solution. Refer to Note 6. Acquisitions and Disposition of Business of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion regarding these transactions. 2 Table of Contents Our Principal Products and Services In 2022, we reported our business in two product groups: Digital Thread and Velocity. Digital Thread included products focused on customers that are embracing enterprise-wide digital transformation and Velocity included products focused on customers that prioritize agile product development. Beginning in fiscal year 2023, we are reporting our businesses in two new product groups: CAD (Computer-Aided Design) and PLM (Product Lifecycle Management). Products designated as CAD refer to software used for product data authoring. Products designated as PLM refer to software used for product data management and process orchestration. The new reporting structure aligns better to our strategy, product offerings and industry segments. 3 Table of Contents Our Windchill PLM application suite manages all aspects of the product development lifecycle - from concept through service and retirement - by enabling a digital thread of product parts, materials, and configuration information. Windchill provides real-time information sharing, dynamic data visualization, and the ability to collaborate across geographically-distributed teams, enabling manufacturers to elevate their product development process. With its open architecture that integrates with other enterprise systems, Windchill provides a solid foundation for a product-driven digital thread. Our Arena SaaS PLM solution enables product teams to collaborate virtually anytime and anywhere, making it easier to share the latest product and quality information with internal teams and supply chain partners and help deliver innovative products to customers faster. Our Arena quality management system software connects quality and product designs into a single system to simplify regulatory compliance. Our ThingWorx platform is flexible and purpose-built for Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). It offers a rich set of capabilities that enable enterprises to digitally transform every aspect of their business with innovative solutions that are simple to create, easy to implement, scalable to meet future needs, and designed to enable customers to accelerate time to value. Our ThingWorx Digital Performance Management solution enables manufacturers to identify, prioritize, and overcome their most significant production bottlenecks. Our Codebeamer TM and Integrity TM application lifecycle management (ALM) and model-based systems engineering capabilities enable users to accelerate the development of software-intensive products through system modeling, software configuration, and requirements, risk, and test management. Our Servigistics service parts management solution enables customers to effectively manage their service parts inventory, enabling them to optimize equipment availability and uptime, and increase customer satisfaction. Our FlexPLM solution provides retailers with a single platform for merchandising and line planning, materials management, sampling, and more. Our Creo 3D CAD technology enables the digital design, testing, and modification of product models. With its design simulation, additive manufacturing, and generative design innovations, we enable our customers to be first to market with differentiated products. From initial concept to design, simulation, and analysis, Creo provides designers with innovative tools to efficiently create better products, faster. Our Onshape SaaS product development platform unites computer-aided design with data management, collaboration tools, and real-time analytics. A cloud-native multi-tenant solution that can be instantly deployed on virtually any computer or mobile device, Onshape enables teams to work together from just about anywhere. Real-time design reviews, commenting, and simultaneous editing enable a collaborative workflow where multiple design iterations can be completed in parallel and merged into the final design. Our Vuforia augmented reality (AR) technology enables the visualization of digital information in a physical context and the creation of AR and mixed reality experiences to deliver workforce productivity and business results in manufacturing, service, engineering, and operations. Vuforia solutions equip frontline workers with focused and effective step-by-step instructions, procedural guidance, skill development and remote assistance that enable enterprises to reduce errors, increase asset utilization and drive higher profitability. Our Arbortext dynamic publishing solution streamlines how organizations create, manage, and publish technical documentation. 4 Table of Contents To meet the increasing demand for SaaS delivered solutions, we expect to introduce a number of new SaaS offerings over time. These service offerings will provide an alternative to our traditional on-premises software products and provide our customers with the benefits of SaaS including accelerated time to value, reduced complexity, lower costs to implement, upgrade and administer, improved user collaboration and mobility, and scalability. We are giving this new generation of offerings a &#x201c;plus&#x201d; brand. We launched Windchill+ in the second quarter of 2022. Our Markets and How We Address Them The markets we serve present different growth opportunities for us. We see opportunity for further market growth for all our solutions with a new generation of SaaS solutions we are developing to bring to market over the next few years. We derive most of our sales from products and services sold directly by our sales force to end-user customers. Approximately 25% to 30% of our sales of products and services are through third-party resellers. Our sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Our strategic alliance partners enable us to increase our market reach, offer broader solutions, and add compelling technology to our offerings. Our strategic services partners provide service offerings to help customers implement our product offerings and transition to SaaS. Additional financial information about our segments and international and domestic operations may be found in Note 18. Segment and Geographic Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Competition We compete with a number of companies whose offerings address one or more specific functional areas covered by our solutions. For enterprise Creo and Windchill solutions, we compete with large established companies including Autodesk, Dassault Syst&#xe8;mes SA, and Siemens AG. In our IIoT business, we compete with large established companies such as Amazon, IBM, Oracle, SAP, Siemens AG, and Software AG as well as customers&#x2019; homegrown solutions. There are also a number of smaller companies that compete in the market for IIoT products. For our AR products, our primary competitors include Microsoft, TeamViewer, and ScopeAR. For our ALM products, we compete with IBM and Siemens AG. For our SLM products, we compete with companies that offer point solutions and with customers&#x2019; homegrown solutions. Proprietary Rights Our software products and related technical know-how, along with our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection. The nature and extent of such legal protection depends in part on the type of intellectual property right and the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., we are generally able to maintain our trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use and to maintain our patents for up to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. We also use license management and other anti-piracy technology measures, as well as contractual restrictions, to curtail the unauthorized use and distribution of our products. Our proprietary rights are subject to the risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. &#x201c;Risk Factors&#x201d; below, which is incorporated into this section by reference. 5 Table of Contents People and Culture PTC&#x2019;s commitment to building a diverse, equitable, and inclusive culture is fundamental to our purpose &#x2013; the Power to Create &#x2013; and critical to every aspect of our talent strategy. Our approach is focused on sustainable talent practices and core values that promote an agile culture, an increased sense of belonging, engaged work environments, and high-performing teams. 6 Table of Contents PTC at-a-Glance As of September 30, 2022, PTC had 6,503 full-time employees. Our employee population is geographically diverse and serves a geographically diverse customer and partner network. Worldwide Employee Representation United States Employee Representation 7 Table of Contents Compensation and Benefits PTC provides a comprehensive and competitive compensation and benefits package designed to attract, retain, motivate, and engage talent around the world that will drive success and innovation in meeting the goals of our business. We provide employees with competitive base salaries, incentive compensation and, in many cases, equity compensation. Our benefits offerings are designed to meet the unique needs of our employees. We believe we provide competitive benefits in each local market we operate in to help our employees care for themselves and their families. Common offerings are health benefits, retirement benefits, life insurance and disability protection, employee assistance, vacation time, holidays and leave benefits. To ensure our employees and families have the support they need as the COVID-19 pandemic begins to ease, PTC has continued its global emergency leave policy, which provides for ten days of paid time off over and above regular sick or other time off to recuperate from or care for a family member recovering from COVID-19. Employee Development We invest in our employees, creating meaningful opportunities to learn, grow, develop and advance their careers. We have specific development programs, including our Rotational Leadership Development, Managing at PTC, Leading at PTC, and 360-degree development programs. Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) We are improving our systems and processes to enable us to better track, manage and develop our employees. With these improvements, we are gaining a better understanding of our current demographic population and developing demographic goals, as we strive to create a more demographically diverse, inclusive, and equitable organization. Starting in FY&#x2019;22, our Self-Identification program invited U.S. employees to volunteer their personal information across categories such as race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, pronouns, disability, veteran and military status, and more. By analyzing this information in aggregate, we can determine what we should adjust in terms of DEI programming, policies, and hiring practices. Commitment to our values and diversity in our workforce has inspired our top-line company goals. Key milestones include launching leadership development experiences for underrepresented minority and underrepresented group populations, offering learning programs in psychological safety, requiring unconscious bias training for hiring managers, and enhancing our Employee Resource Group (ERG) program and Global DEI Champions Network. PTC currently supports 12 ERGs that span a broad spectrum of identities, experiences, and interests: Asian, Black, Early Career, Energize (Health Wellness), Family, Green (Sustainability), Hola (Hispanic Latine), Prism (LGBTQ+), SMART (Neurodiversity), Veterans, Virtual, and Women. In 2021, we introduced a CEO Rotation program that allows our CEO to spend three months with each ERG as a rotational sponsor. 8 Table of Contents Additional Information About Our Employee Initiatives You can find more information about our employee initiatives, including our DEI, Training and Career Development, Compensation Benefits, Employee Engagement, and Employee Health Safety initiatives, in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report available on PTC.com. The references to our Corporate Social Responsibility Report and our website are not intended to incorporate information in that report or on our website into this Annual Report by reference. Available Information We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not intended to incorporate information on our website into this Annual Report by reference. Corporate Information PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Ri sk Factors The following are important factors we have identified that could affect an investment in our securities. You should consider them carefully when evaluating an investment in PTC securities, because these factors could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or any forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. I. Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry We face significant competition, which may reduce our profitability and limit or reduce our market share. The markets for our products and solutions are rapidly changing and characterized by intense competition, disruptive technology developments, evolving distribution models and increasingly lower barriers to entry. If we are unable to provide products and solutions that address customers&#x2019; needs as well as our competitors&#x2019; products and solutions do, or to align our pricing, licensing and delivery models with customer preferences, we could lose customers and/or fail to attract new customers, which could cause us to lose revenue and market share. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic caused companies worldwide to close their offices and their employees to have to work remotely from their homes, and there remains uncertainty about the extent to which employees will return to the office in the long term. This has focused companies on the need for solutions that empower and support remote work by employees. We believe customers and potential customers will increasingly seek software solutions that support remote work by employees. Although many of our solutions support remote work, others are less efficient at doing so. We have embarked on an effort to make our solutions available on a SaaS platform; however, this will require significant effort and investment and we cannot be sure that we will be able to make our solutions available as SaaS solutions as quickly as we expect or that customers will adopt them as we expect. If we are unable to compete successfully with competitors offering SaaS solutions, we could lose customers and/or fail to attract new customers, which could cause us to lose revenue and market share, which would adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, competitive pressures could cause us to reduce our prices, which could reduce our revenue and margins. Our current and potential competitors range from large and well-established companies to emerging start-ups. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater name recognition in the markets we serve and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources, which could limit our ability to gain customer recognition and confidence in our products and solutions and successfully sell our products and solutions, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. A breach of security in our products or computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could compromise the integrity of our products, cause loss of data, harm our reputation, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results. We have implemented and continue to implement measures intended to maintain the security and integrity of our products, source code and IT systems. The potential for a security breach or system disruption has significantly increased over time as the scope, number, intensity and sophistication of attempted cyberattacks and cyber intrusions have increased &#x2013; particularly cyberattacks and intrusions designed to access and exfiltrate information and to disrupt and lock-up access to systems for the purpose of demanding a ransom payment. It is impossible for us to eliminate the risk of a successful cyberattack or intrusion, and, in fact, we deal with security issues on a regular basis and have experienced security incidents from time to time. Accordingly, there is a risk that a cyberattack or intrusion will be successful and that such event will be material. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we offer cloud services to our customers and some of our products, including our SaaS products, are hosted by third-party service providers, which expose us to additional risks as those repositories of our customers&#x2019; proprietary data may be targeted and a cyberattack or intrusion may be successful and material. Interception of data transmission, misappropriation or modification of data, corruption of data and attacks against our service providers may adversely affect our products or product and service delivery. Malicious code, viruses or vulnerabilities that are undetected by our service providers may disrupt our business operations generally and may have a disproportionate effect on those of our products that are developed and delivered in the cloud environment. While we devote resources to maintaining the security and integrity of our products and systems, as well as performing due diligence of our third-party service providers, security breaches that have not had a material effect on our business or that of our customers have occurred, and we will continue to face cybersecurity threats and exposure. A significant breach of the security and/or integrity of our products or systems, or those of our third-party service providers, whether or intentional or by human error by our employees or others, could disrupt our business operations or those of our customers, could prevent our products from functioning properly, could enable access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of our customers, or could enable access to our sensitive, proprietary or confidential information. This could require us to incur significant costs of investigation, remediation and/or payment of a ransom; harm our reputation; cause customers to stop buying our products; and cause us to face lawsuits and potential liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We increasingly rely on third-party providers of cloud infrastructure services to deliver our offerings to users on our platform, and any disruption of or interference with our use of these services could adversely affect our business. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to use and access our cloud services or our website in order to download our software or encrypted access keys for our software within an acceptable amount of time. We use a number of third-party service providers that we do not control for key components of our infrastructure, particularly with respect to development and delivery of our cloud-based products. The use of these service providers gives us greater flexibility in efficiently delivering a more tailored, scalable customer experience, but also exposes us to additional risks and vulnerabilities. Third-party service providers operate their own platforms that we access, and we are, therefore, vulnerable to their service interruptions. We may experience interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability from time to time as a result of problems with our third-party service providers&#x2019; infrastructure. Lack of availability of this infrastructure could be due to a number of potential causes including technical failures, natural disasters, fraud or security attacks that we cannot predict or prevent. Such outages could trigger our service level agreements with customers and require us to issue the issuance of credits to our cloud-based product customers, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to renew our agreements with our cloud service providers on commercially reasonable terms, or any of our agreements are prematurely terminated, or we need to add new cloud services providers to increase capacity and uptime, we could experience interruptions, downtime, delays, and additional expenses related to transferring to and providing support for these new platforms. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation and brand, reduce the availability or usage of our platforms and impair our ability to attract new users, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to hire or retain personnel with the necessary skills to operate and grow our business, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, sales and marketing, technical, financial and administrative personnel to operate and grow our business. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense, particularly in the Boston, Massachusetts area where our global headquarters is located. The technical personnel required to develop our products and solutions are in high demand. If we are unable to attract and retain technical personnel with the requisite skills, our product and solution development efforts could be delayed, which could adversely affect our ability to compete and thereby adversely affect our revenues and profit