ITEM 1. Business 4 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 15 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 37 ITEM 2. Properties 38 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 39 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosure s 39 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 42 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 112 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 112 ITEM 9B. Other Information 113 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 113 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 114 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 114 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 115 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 121 SIGNATURES 122 1 Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements and Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) of Quanta Services, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Quanta, we, us or our) includes forward-looking statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as anticipate, estimate, project, forecast, may, will, should, could, expect, believe, plan, intend and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following: Projected revenues, net income, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, liquidity, weighted average shares outstanding, capital expenditures, interest rates and tax rates, as well as other projections of operating results and GAAP (as defined herein) and non-GAAP financial results, including EBITDA (as defined herein), adjusted EBITDA (as defined herein) and backlog; Expectations regarding our business or financial outlook; Expectations regarding opportunities, technological developments, competitive positioning, future economic and regulatory conditions and other trends in particular markets or industries; Expectations regarding our plans and strategies, including with respect to our supply chain and expanded or new service offerings; The business plans or financial condition of our customers, including with respect to the transition to a reduced-carbon economy; The potential benefits from, and future financial and operational performance of, acquired businesses and our investments; Beliefs and assumptions about the collectability of receivables; The expected value of contracts or intended contracts with customers, as well as the expected timing, scope, services, term or results of any awarded or expected projects; Possible recovery of pending or contemplated insurance claims, change orders and claims asserted against customers or third parties; The development of and opportunities with respect to future projects, including renewable energy projects and other projects designed to support the transition to a reduced-carbon economy, electrical grid modernization, upgrade and hardening projects and larger transmission and pipeline projects; Expectations regarding the future availability and price of materials and equipment necessary for the performance of our business; The expected impact of global and domestic economic or political conditions on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, and demand for our services, including inflation, interest rates, recessionary economic conditions and commodity prices and production volumes; The expected impact of changes and potential changes in climate and the physical and transition risks associated with climate change and the transition to a reduced-carbon economy; Future capital allocation initiatives, including the amount and timing of, and strategies with respect to, any future acquisitions, investments, cash dividends, repurchases of our equity or debt securities or repayments of other outstanding debt; The expected impact of existing or potential legislation or regulation; Potential opportunities that may be indicated by bidding activity or similar discussions with customers; The future demand for, availability of and costs related to labor resources in the industries we serve; The expected recognition and realization of our remaining performance obligations or backlog; Expectations regarding the outcome of pending or threatened legal proceedings, as well as the collection of amounts awarded in legal proceedings; and Expectations with respect to our ability to reduce our debt and maintain our current credit ratings. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance; rather they involve or rely on a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict or are beyond our control, and reflect management s beliefs and assumptions based on information available at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements and that any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be inaccurate or incorrect. These statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties described elsewhere herein, including in