ITEM 1. Business 4 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 13 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 ITEM 2. Properties 37 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 37 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosure s 37 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 40 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 63 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 65 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 126 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 126 ITEM 9B. Other Information 127 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 127 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 128 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 128 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 128 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 128 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 128 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 129 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 135 SIGNATURES 136 1 Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements and Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) of Quanta Services, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Quanta, we, us or our) includes forward-looking statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as anticipate, estimate, project, forecast, may, will, should, could, expect, believe, plan, intend and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following: Projected revenues, net income, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, liquidity, weighted average shares outstanding, capital expenditures and tax rates, as well as other projections of operating and GAAP (as defined below) and non-GAAP financial results; Expectations regarding our business or financial outlook; Expectations regarding opportunities, technological developments, competitive positioning, future economic and regulatory conditions and other trends in particular markets or industries, including with respect to our increased operations in the renewable energy market after our acquisition of Blattner (as defined below) and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy; Expectations regarding the pandemic associated with the novel coronavirus disease that began in 2019 (COVID-19), including the continued and potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and of governmental and customer responses to the pandemic on our business, operations, supply chain, personnel, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity; Expectations regarding our plans and strategies; The business plans or financial condition of our customers, including with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy; The potential impact of commodity prices and production volumes on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and demand for our services; The potential benefits from, and future financial and operational performance of, acquired businesses and our investments, including Blattner and our equity interest in LUMA (as defined below); Beliefs and assumptions about the collectability of receivables; The expected value of contracts or intended contracts with customers, as well as the scope, services, term or results of any awarded or expected projects; The development of and opportunities with respect to future projects, including renewable energy projects, electrical grid modernization, upgrade and hardening projects and large transmission and pipeline projects; Expectations regarding the future availability and price of materials and equipment necessary for the performance of our business; The expected impact of inflation; The expected impact of changes and potential changes in climate; Future capital allocation initiatives, including the amount and timing of, and strategies with respect to, any future acquisitions, investments or stock repurchases and expectations regarding the declaration, amount and timing of any future cash dividends; The impact of existing or potential legislation or regulation; Potential opportunities that may be indicated by bidding activity or similar discussions with customers; The future demand for, availability of and costs related to labor resources in the industries we serve; The expected realization of our remaining performance obligations or backlog; The expected outcome of pending or threatened legal proceedings; Expectations with respect to our ability to reduce our debt and maintain our current credit ratings; and Possible recovery of pending or contemplated insurance claims, change orders and claims asserted against customers or third parties. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, involve or rely on a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict or are beyond our control, and reflect management s beliefs and assumptions based on information available at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements and that any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be inaccurate or incorrect. These statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties described elsewhere herein, 2 including in