Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 1C. C y b er secu rity 31 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. [Reserved] 34 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 55 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 55 Item 9B. Other Information 56 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 56 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11. Executive Compensation 56 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 56 Item 14. Principal Account a nt Fees and Services 56 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 57 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 123 Trademarks, Trade Names and Service Marks PayPal owns or has rights to use the trademarks, service marks, and trade names that it uses in conjunction with the operation of its business. Some of the more important trademarks that PayPal owns or has rights to use that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include: PayPal , PayPal Credit , Braintree, Venmo, Xoom, Zettle, Hyperwallet, Honey, and Paidy, which may be registered or trademarked in the United States and other jurisdictions. PayPal s rights to some of these trademarks may be limited to select markets. This report may contain additional trade names and trademarks of other companies. The use or display of other companies trade names or trademarks does not imply our endorsement or sponsorship of, or a relationship with these companies. Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, mergers or acquisitions, or management strategies). These forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, "continue," strategy, future, opportunity, plan, project, forecast, and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in