Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal and Regulatory Proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 35 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 37 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 51 Item 9B. Other Information 52 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 53 Item 11. Executive Compensation 53 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 53 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 53 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 53 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 53 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 56 3 TRADEMARKS Qualcomm, Snapdragon, MSM, Hexagon and Adreno are trademarks or registered trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. Other products and brand names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners. 4 In this Annual Report, the words Qualcomm, we, our, ours and us refer only to QUALCOMM Incorporated and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity. This Annual Report (including but not limited to the section titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ) contains forward-looking statements. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, may, will, would and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as our future business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or research and development or technology investments; new or enhanced products, services or technologies; emerging industries or business models; design wins or product launches; industry, market or technology trends, dynamics or transitions, such as the transition to 5G; potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, legal or regulatory matters, U.S./China trade or national security tensions, vertical integration by our customers or competition; and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are also forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under Part I,