Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 37 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. (Reserved) 40 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 49 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 49 Item 9B. Other Information 50 Item 9 C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 50 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 51 Item 11. Executive Compensation 51 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 51 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 51 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 51 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 51 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 55 3 Risk Factors Summary: Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATING BUSINESSES We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and licensees, and particularly from their sale of premium tier handset devices. If revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our business, particularly our semiconductor business, may suffer as a result of our customers vertically integrating (i.e., developing their own integrated circuit products). A significant portion of our business is concentrated in China, and the risks of such concentration are exacerbated by U.S./China trade and national security tensions. RISKS RELATED TO NEW INITIATIVES Our growth depends in part on our ability to extend our technologies and products into new and expanded product areas, and industries and applications beyond mobile handsets. Our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas, industries and applications, and related technologies and products, as well as in our existing technologies and products, and new technologies, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations. We may engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions or make investments, or be unable to consummate planned strategic acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value. RISKS RELATED TO SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture, assembly and testing of our products manufactured in a fabless production model. If we fail to execute supply strategies that provide supply assurance, technology leadership and reasonable margins, our business and results of operations may be harmed. We are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our results of operations. There are numerous risks associated with the operation and control of our manufacturing facilities, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model; environmental compliance and liability; impacts related to climate change; exposure to natural disasters, health crises, geopolitical conflicts and cyber-attacks; timely supply of equipment and materials; and various manufacturing issues. RISKS RELATED TO CYBERSECURITY OR MISAPPROPRIATION OF OUR CRITICAL INFORMATION Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches of our IT systems, or other misappropriation of our technology, intellectual property or other proprietary or confidential information. RISKS RELATED TO HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees. RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR LICENSING BUSINESS The continued and future success of our licensing programs requires us to continue to evolve our patent portfolio and to renew or renegotiate license agreements that are expiring. Efforts by some OEMs to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) or other industry organizations that harm our business. Changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, legal challenges or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 4 RISKS RELATED TO REGULATORY AND LEGAL CHALLENGES Our business may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in governmental investigations or proceedings or other legal proceedings. RISKS RELATED TO INDUSTRY DYNAMICS AND COMPETITION Our revenues depend on our customers and licensees sales of products and services based on CDMA, OFDMA and other communications technologies, including 5G, and customer demand for our products based on these technologies. Our industry is subject to intense competition in an environment of rapid technological change. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to such change and compete effectively; and such change and competition could result in decreased demand for our products and technologies or declining average selling prices for our products or those of our customers or licensees. RISKS RELATED TO PRODUCT DEFECTS OR SECURITY VULNERABILITIES Failures in our products, or in the products of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, and could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property and by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. Our use of open source software may harm our business. GENERAL RISK FACTORS We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. We are also susceptible to declines in global, regional and local economic conditions generally. Our stock price and financial results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to these dynamics, among others. Geopolitical conflicts, natural disasters, pandemics and other health crises, and other factors outside of our control, could significantly disrupt our business. Our business may suffer due to the impact of, or our failure to comply with, the various existing, new or amended laws, regulations, policies or standards to which we are subject. There are risks associated with our debt. Tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. 5 In this Annual Report, the words Qualcomm, the Company, we, our, ours and us refer only to QUALCOMM Incorporated and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity. This Annual Report (including but not limited to the section titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ) contains forward-looking statements. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, may, will, would and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as our future business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition; research and development or technology investments; new or enhanced products, services or technologies; emerging industries or business models; design wins or product launches; industry, market or technology trends, dynamics or transitions; our expectations regarding future demand or supply conditions; strategic investments or acquisitions, and the anticipated timing or benefits thereof; legal or regulatory matters; U.S./China trade or national security tensions; vertical integration by our customers; competition; and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are also forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under Part I,