Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 I tem 1C. Cybersecurity 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Reserved 26 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 52 Item 9B. Other Information 52 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevents Inspections 52 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 53 Item 11. Executive Compensation 53 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 53 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 53 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 53 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 54 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 66 Signatures 67 F-2 PART I As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms Royal Caribbean, "Royal Caribbean Group," the Company, we, our and us refer to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and, depending on the context, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. s consolidated subsidiaries and/or affiliates. The terms Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Silversea Cruises refer to our wholly owned global cruise brands. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we also refer to our partner brands in which we hold an ownership interest, including TUI Cruises, and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises. However , because these partner brands are unconsolidated investments, our operating results and other disclosures herein do not include these brands unless otherwise specified. In accordance with cruise vacation industry practice, the term berths is determined based on double occupancy per cabin even though many cabins can accommodate three or more passengers. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes trademarks, trade names and service marks of other companies. Use or display by us of other parties trademarks, trade names or service marks is not intended to and does not imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, these other parties other than as described herein. 1 Item 1. Business. General We are one of the leading cruise companies in the world. We own and operate three global cruise brands: Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Silversea Cruises (collectively, our "Global Brands"). We also own a 50% joint venture interest in TUI Cruises GmbH ("TUIC"), which operates the German brands TUI Cruises and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises (collectively, our "Partner Brands"). We account for our investments in our Partner Brands under the equity method of accounting. Together, our Global Brands and our Partner Brands have a combined fleet of 65 ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate capacity of approximately 157,575 berths as of December 31, 2023. Our ships offer a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on more than 1,000 destinations on all seven continents. We compete principally by operating valued brands that offer exceptional service provided by our crew and on the basis of innovation and quality of ships, variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price. We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and upgrade of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate many of our latest signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests. Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its corporate structure has evolved over the years and, the current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. Our Global Brands Our Global Brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Silversea Cruises. We believe our Global Brands possess the versatility to enter multiple market segments within the vacation industry. Although each of our Global Brands has its own marketing style, as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our Global Brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our Global Brands have historically sourced passengers from similar markets around the world and operated in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, we strategically manage our Global Brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term shareholder value. Royal Caribbean International Royal Caribbean International is the world's largest cruise brand. The brand competes in both the contemporary family market and premium segments of the cruise vacation industry appealing to both families with children of all ages and older and younger couples. Royal Caribbean International offers cruises and land destinations that generally feature a casual ambiance, as well as a variety of activities and entertainment venues. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand allows it to achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry. Royal Caribbean International s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by offering a wide variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, the Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Panama Canal and New Zealand, with cruise lengths generally ranging from two to 18 nights. Royal Caribbean International offers multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. Because of the brand s ability to deliver extensive and innovative product offerings at an excellent value to consumers, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to cruising and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation. Royal Caribbean International operates 26 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 94,100 berths. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, Royal Caribbean International had three ships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately 16,900 berths. The ships on order include two Icon-class ships, Star of the Seas and the third Icon-class ship, which are expected to be delivered in 2025 and 2026, respectively, and our sixth Oasis-class ship, Utopia of the Seas, which is expected to be delivered in 2024. Celebrity Cruises Celebrity Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry. Celebrity Cruises strategy is to target consumers by delivering a destination-rich experience on upscale ships that offer, among other things, excellent food and drink, elevated hospitality, world-class spaces and accommodations, and live entertainment. Celebrity Cruises offers a range of itineraries to destinations, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Galapagos Islands, Hawaii, New Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America, with cruise lengths ranging from three to 18 nights. 2 Celebrity Cruises operates 16 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 35,715 berths. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, Celebrity Cruises had one Edge-class ship on order, Celebrity Xcel, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 3,250 berths, which is expected to be delivered in 2025. Silversea Cruises Silversea Cruises is an ultra-luxury and expedition cruise line with smaller ships, high standards of accommodations, fine dining, personalized service and exotic itineraries. Silversea Cruises delivers distinctive destination experiences by visiting unique and remote destinations, including the Galapagos Islands, Antarctica and the Arctic with cruise itineraries generally ranging from five to 24 nights. Silversea Cruises operates 11 ships, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 4,770 berths. As of December 31, 2023, Silversea Cruises had on order one Evolution-class ship, Silver Ray , with an aggregate capacity of approximately 730 berths, which is expected to be delivered in 2024. Our Partner Brands Our Global Brands are complemented by our interest in TUIC, our 50%-owned joint venture that operates the German brands TUI Cruises and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises (collectively, our "Partner Brands"). TUIC is a joint venture owned 50% by us and 50% by TUI AG, a German tourism company, which is designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering products tailored for German guests. All onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market. TUI Cruises operates six ships, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 15,800 berths. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, TUI Cruises had three ships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately 11,100 berths, two of these ships are expected to be delivered in 2024, the third ship is expected to be delivered in 2026. Hapag-Lloyd Cruises operates two luxury liners and three smaller expedition ships, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,590 berths. Hapag-Lloyd Cruises did not have any ships on order as of December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 7. Investments and Other Assets to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further details. Industry The cruising industry has been considered a well-established vacation sector in the North American, European and Australian markets and a developing sector in several other emerging markets. We believe that cruising will continue to be a popular vacation choice due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shoreside activities. The Company and other industry participants voluntarily suspended operations in March of 2020 and gradually resumed full operations starting in the second half of 2021 through the first half of 2022. As a result, comparative information regarding market penetration is not meaningful for 2020, 2021, and 2022. For the five year period prior to 2020, industry data indicated that market penetration rates were still low and that a significant portion of cruise guests carried in those years were first-time cruisers. We believe this presents an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability. Industry market penetration rates (computed based on the number of annual cruise guests as a percentage of the total population) grew from 3.36% to 3.89% for North America, from 1.25% to 1.41% for Europe, and from 0.08% to 0.20% for Asia/Pacific during the five year period from 2015 through 2019. During 2023, industry market penetration rates were 3.55% for North America, 1.07% for Europe, and 0.04% for Asia/Pacific. The penetration rates in 2023 show the recovery and growth potential in the markets most served by the industry. The cruise industry was served by a fleet with a weighted average of approximately 650,000 berths during 2023 with approximately 361 ships at the end of 2023. As of December 31, 2023, there were approximately 51 ships on order with an estimated 110,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market through 2028, not taking into account ships taken out of service or ordered during these periods. The global cruise industry carried approximately 21 million guests in 2023, 30 million cruise guests in 2019 and approximately 28.5 million in 2018. 3 The following table details the growth in global weighted average berths and the percentage of North American, European and Asia/Pacific cruise guests for 2023, 2022 and for each of the five years from 2015 through 2019 (in thousands, except berth data): Supply of Berths Industry Cruise Guests Year (1) Weighted-Average Global Supply (2) Royal Caribbean Group (3) Global (2) North American (2)(4) Europe (2)(5) Asia/Pacific (2)(6) Other (2) 2015 469,000 112,700 23,000 52% 29% 14% 5% 2016 493,000 123,270 24,000 51% 27% 19% 3% 2017 515,000 124,070 26,700 48% 25% 20% 7% 2018 546,000 135,520 28,500 49% 26% 20% 5% 2019 579,000 141,570 30,000 47% 25% 24% 4% 2022 634,000 150,005 13,100 65% 29% 2% 4% 2023 650,000 157,575 21,200 63% 27% 6% 4% ___________________________________________________________________ (1) Historically, we have reported annual information for comparability across periods. The 2020 suspension of global cruise operations as a result of COVID-19 and the gradual resumption of full operations starting in the second half of 2021 through the first half of 2022 do not allow for a meaningful comparison to prior years' information and, as such, 2020 and 2021 data has been excluded from this table. (2) The estimates of the number of global cruise guests and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally are based on a combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources. We use data obtained from Seatrade Insider, Cruise Industry News and company press releases to estimate weighted-average supply of berths and CLIA and G.P. Wild to estimate cruise guest information. For 2023, cruise guest information includes data through the third quarter of 2023. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base. (3) Total berths include our berths related to our Global Brands and Partner Brands as of December 31, 2023. (4) Our estimates include the United States and Canada. (5) Our estimates include European countries relevant to the industry (most notably: the Nordics, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom). (6) Our estimates include Southeast Asia (most notably: Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines), East Asia (most notably: China and Japan), South Asia (most notably: India) and Oceania (most notably: Australia and New Zealand) regions. The decrease in Asia/Pacific cruise guests from 2019 to 2023 is partly driven by China remaining closed given its COVID-19 restrictions through the first half 2023. Competition We compete with a number of cruise lines as well as land-based vacation alternatives for consumers leisure time. These include resorts (including all-inclusive resorts), hotels, internet-based alternative lodging sites, theme parks, sports, nature and sightseeing destinations. Our principal cruise competitors are Carnival Corporation plc, which owns, among other brands, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Line, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, P O Cruises, Princess Cruises and Seabourn; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd, which owns Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises, and Regent Seven Seas Cruises; and Virgin Voyages. Operating Strategies Our mission is to deliver the best vacation experiences responsibly. We continue to prioritize operating strategies that support this mission in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, working with our various business and community partners as we build toward a more sustainable cruise industry. Our Company's operating strategies are as follows: deliver the best vacation experiences responsibly; deliver a lifetime of vacations to our customers; 4 protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees; deepen our customer relationships in order to increase frequency and repeat booking rates; focus on cost efficiency, adequate cash and liquidity, and strong balance sheet, with the overall goals of maximizing our return on invested capital and shareholder value; protect the environment and communities in which our vessels and organization operate, with a focus on decarbonization; invest in our workforce in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business, and promote gender equality, diversity and inclusion; increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands globally; strategically invest in our fleet through the upgrade and maintenance of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations, while prudently expanding our fleet with new state-of-the-art cruise ships; capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets; provide extraordinary destination experiences and state-of-the-art port facilities to our guests; continue to deploy technology capabilities and advanced uses of data and analytics to deliver innovative customer experiences as well as to create operational efficiencies; and maintain strong relationships with travel advisors, while enhancing our consumer outreach and e-commerce programs Safety, security and health policies We are committed to protecting the health, safety and security of our guests, employees and others working on our behalf. Our efforts in these areas are managed by several departments within the Company that are responsible for maritime safety, global security, environmental stewardship and medical/public health activities. We also have a dedicated committee of our Board of Directors, the Safety, Environment, Sustainability and Health Committee, which is responsible for reviewing and monitoring our overall strategies, policies and programs that impact the safety and health of our guests and crew. Consumer engagement We place a strong focus on delivering a lifetime of vacations and priceless memories for our guests by identifying and creating product features and innovations that our customers value. We are focused on targeting and acquiring high-value guests by better understanding consumer data and insights to create communication strategies that resonate with our target audiences. We target customers at important consumer decision points throughout their vacation journey and identify underlying needs for which guests value and are willing to pay a premium. We rely upon and continue to invest in various programs and technologies during the cruise-planning, cruising and after-cruise periods aimed at increasing revenues and occupancy. We have and expect to strategically invest in experiences on our ships that we believe drive marketability, profitability and improve the guest experience. In addition, we are focused on enhancing our vacation ecosystem by investing in a new travel platform, our loyalty programs and e-commerce capabilities. Focus on cost efficiency, capital allocation, adequate cash and liquidity and improving our balance sheet We are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position and a balanced debt maturity profile, while making progress towards achieving lower leverage, lower interest expense, and an unsecured balance sheet. For example, during 2023, we amended our revolving credit facility with our key relationship banks to ensure adequate liquidity on a going-forward basis and additionally, we repaid approximately $4.0 billion of debt. We believe these strategies together with our continued focus on increasing operating income and margin, as well as disciplined capital allocation, enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value. 5 Protect the environment and communities in which we operate We are focused on the health of the environment and communities in which we operate. SEA the Future is our commitment to sustain the planet, energize the communities we visit, and accelerate innovation to improve our planet. Key programs include our Destination Net Zero strategy and Save the Waves Program. Destination Net Zero is our decarbonization strategy that focuses on achieving net zero emissions by 2050 and delivering a net zero capable ship by 2035. This strategy also includes reducing our carbon intensity by double digits by 2025, compared to 2019. Destination Net Zero s four-pronged approach includes: Modernizing our fleet with new energy-efficient and alternatively fueled vessels; Continued investment in energy efficiency programs; Development of alternative fuel and alternative power solutions; and Optimized deployment and integration of strategic shore-based supply chains. While we continue to refine our roadmap to Destination Net Zero, we know our strategy will require new fuels and technologies that are not available today. Collaboration is imperative to reaching our decarbonization goals. as such, we are partnering with governments, fuel suppliers, shipyards, and technology stakeholders to build and test a safe and reliable supply of alternative energy sources. Another example of our commitment to sustaining our planet with key partners is our decades-long Save the Waves program, which focuses on waste management techniques and technologies, along with reuse and recycling programs, to reduce the amount of waste produced on our ships and divert the remaining waste from landfills. We also have a long-term partnership with the World Wildlife Fund to evaluate ship operations, sustainable sourcing of food supplies, waste management, sustainable destinations and guest education on ocean conservation. We also believe in transparent reporting on our environmental and sustainability stewardship, as well as our social and governance efforts. Our SEA the Future commitment and annual sustainability report, both of which are accessible on our corporate website, highlight our commitment and progress made with regards to those environmental, social and governance aspects of our business that we believe are most significant to our organization and stakeholders. In addition to providing an overview on our sustainability efforts, the report references the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and is aligned with the Sustainable Accounting Standards Boards Industry Standards for Cruise Lines. We continue to advance our reporting following the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our corporate website contains the current version of our reports which provide information about our environmental performance goals and sustainability initiatives. The foregoing information contained on our website is not part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein or in any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Refer to the Regulation - Environmental Regulations section below for further information. Investing in our workforce and promoting equality, diversity and inclusion We believe that our employees, both shipboard and shoreside, are a critical success factor for our business. We strive to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain the best employees, who provide our guests with extraordinary vacations. Our ability to attract, engage, and retain key employees has been and will remain critical to our success. Our Talent and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors oversees the Company's human capital management strategies, including initiatives for talent diversity, equity and inclusion, talent management, and corporate culture. We focus on providing our employees with a competitive compensation structure, development opportunities, and other personal and professional growth opportunities in order to strengthen and support our human capital. We also select, develop and have strategies to retain high performing leaders to advance the enterprise now and in the future. To that end, we pay special attention to identifying high performing potential leaders and developing bench strength so these leaders can assume leadership roles throughout the organization. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation, and believe that maintaining a strong employee-focused culture is beneficial to the growth and expansion of our business. We foster diversity and inclusion among our broad employee base. Refer to the Human Capital section below for further information. 6 Global awareness and market penetration We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our cruise brands in various ways, including the use of communication strategies and marketing campaigns designed to emphasize the qualities of each brand, especially among target groups. Our marketing strategies include the use of travel advisors, traditional media, mobile and digital media as well as social media, influencers, our websites, and sponsorships. Our brands also engage past and potential guests by collaborating with travel partners and through call centers, international offices and international representatives. In addition, our Global Brands target repeat guests with exclusive benefits offered through their respective loyalty programs. We sell and market our Global Brands to guests outside of the United States and Canada through the combined efforts of internationally focused internal resources and a network of independent international representatives located throughout the world. While the majority of our guests for our Global Brands come from North America, we also sell and market our cruise brands to guests in countries outside of North America by tailoring itineraries and onboard product offerings to the cultural characteristics and preferences of our international guests. In addition, we explore opportunities that may arise to acquire or develop brands tailored to specific markets. Delivery of state-of-the-art cruise ships, and fleet upgrade and maintenance We place a strong focus on innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our existing fleet, such as large-scale atriums, double hulls for increased safety, and advanced steel structures. We are expanding our innovation efforts to cover multiple fronts, including naval and architectural design, guest facing features, energy efficiency, sustainability, and safety. We are committed to building state-of-the-art ships at a moderate growth rate and we believe our success in this area provides us with a competitive advantage. Our newer vessels traditionally generate higher revenue yield premiums and are more efficient and environmentally friendly to operate than older vessels. In 2023, we introduced three new vessels to our fleet, including Royal Caribbean International s new flagship Icon of the Seas , Celebrity Cruises Celebrity Ascent , and Silversea Cruises Silver Nova . Each of these vessels represent the latest hardware for their respective brands and both Icon of the Seas and Silver Nova are the first vessels of a new class. For Royal Caribbean International, new features on Icon of the Seas include a dedicated family neighborhood called Surfside , a pool deck featuring the largest swimming pool and waterpark at sea, and the Aquadome showcasing the tallest waterfall at sea in an 82-foot-tall dome. For Celebrity Cruises, Celebrity Ascent represents an evolution of Celebrity Beyond and builds on the innovation that the Edge series of ships have brought to market. For Silversea, Silver Nova is amongst our most environmentally friendly and energy efficient ships to date. As of December 31, 2023, our Global Brands and Partner Brands have 8 ships on order. Refer to the Operations section below for further information on our ships on order. As we further develop our Newbuild program, we continue to utilize each vessel as an opportunity to pilot new technology towards Destination Net Zero. In addition, we regularly evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet while ensuring that we remain focused on the returns we generate on invested capital and maintaining a high level of discipline on capital spending and operating leverage. Markets and itineraries In an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to deploy ships to new, and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships allows us to deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing and new cruise markets. We make deployment decisions generally 18 to 32 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. Additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made to create a flexible global sourcing model have made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries. Our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on over 1,000 destinations in over 120 countries, spanning across all seven continents. We are focused on maximizing long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. New capacity has allowed our brands to expand into new markets and itineraries in an effort to address changes in market demand. Destination experiences and port facilities In order to provide unique destination experiences to our guests, we have and continue to invest in our private land destinations. Our Perfect Day Island Collection represents our initiative to develop a series of private island destinations in 7 key markets. The first island in the collection, Perfect Day at CocoCay, includes a wide range of attractions, such as a full water park, zip line course, freshwater pools, helium balloon ride, splash pads and a beach club. In January 2024, w