Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. Reserved 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 54 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 55 Item 9B. Other Information 55 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevents Inspections 55 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11. Executive Compensation 56 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 56 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 56 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 57 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 72 Signatures 73 F-2 Table of Contents PART I As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms Royal Caribbean, "Royal Caribbean Group," the Company, we, our and us refer to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and, depending on the context, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. s consolidated subsidiaries and/or affiliates. The terms Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Silversea Cruises refer to our wholly owned global cruise brands. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we also refer to our partner brands in which we hold an ownership interest, including TUI Cruises, and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises. However , because these partner brands are unconsolidated investments, our operating results and other disclosures herein do not include these brands unless otherwise specified. In accordance with cruise vacation industry practice, the term berths is determined based on double occupancy per cabin even though many cabins can accommodate three or more passengers. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes trademarks, trade names and service marks of other companies. Use or display by us of other parties trademarks, trade names or service marks is not intended to and does not imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, these other parties other than as described herein. 1 Table of Contents Item 1. Business. General We are one of the leading cruise companies in the world. We control and operate three global cruise brands: Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Silversea Cruises (collectively, our "Global Brands"). We also own a 50% joint venture interest in TUI Cruises GmbH ("TUIC"), that operates the German brands TUI Cruises and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises (collectively, our "Partner Brands"). Together, our Global Brands and our Partner Brands operate a combined total of 61 ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate capacity of approximately 140,855 berths as of December 31, 2021. Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on approximately 1,000 destinations on all seven continents. In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida, we have offices and a network of international representatives around the world, which primarily focus on sales and market development. We compete principally by operating valued brands that offer exceptional service provided by our crew and on the basis of innovation and quality of ships, variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price. We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and upgrade of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate many of our latest signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests. Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its corporate structure has evolved over the years and, the current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. COVID-19 Return to Healthy Sailing We have restarted our global cruise operations in a phased manner, following our voluntary suspension of global cruise operations that commenced in March of 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. By the end of December 2021, we operated 50 of our Global and Partner Brand ships, representing over 85% of our capacity, and we have carried approximately 1.3 million guests since we resumed operations. Our return to service efforts incorporate our enhanced health and safety protocols, and the requirements of regulatory agencies, which has resulted in reduced guest occupancy, modified itineraries and vaccination protocols. We experienced service disruptions and cancelled several sailings in the first quarter of 2022 due to the impact from the Omicron variant ("Omicron"). Service disruptions have abated as COVID-19 cases have declined. Despite the service disruptions and cancellations, we believe the overall trajectory of our return to service remains unchanged. We expect that by the end of the first quarter of 2022, 53 out of 62 ships, including Wonder of the Seas, which was delivered in January 2022, will have been brought back to service. Additionally, we expect that the rest of the fleet will return to operations before the summer season. See Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Recent Developments: COVID-19, and Note 1. General to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further details on the impact of COVID-19 on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Global Brands Our Global Brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Silversea Cruises. We believe our Global Brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our Global Brands has its own marketing style, as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our Global Brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our Global Brands also offer similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. The itineraries of our Global Brands are subject to the phased resumption of our operations and local restrictions. In addition, our Global Brands have historically sourced passengers from similar markets around the world and operated in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, we strategically manage our Global Brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term shareholder value. Royal Caribbean International Royal Caribbean International is the world's largest cruise brand. The brand competes in both the contemporary and premium segments of the cruise vacation industry and appeals to families with children of all ages, as well as both older and younger couples. Royal Caribbean International offers cruises and land destinations that generally feature a casual ambiance, as well as a variety of activities and entertainment venues. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean 2 Table of Contents International brand allows it to achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry. Royal Caribbean International s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by offering a wide variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, the Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Panama Canal and New Zealand, with cruise lengths generally ranging from one to 25 nights. Royal Caribbean International offers multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. Because of the brand s ability to deliver extensive and innovative product offerings at an excellent value to consumers, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to cruising and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation. Royal Caribbean International operates 25 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 88,400 berths. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, Royal Caribbean International had five ships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately 28,200 berths, which consisted of two Oasis-class ships and the first three ships of a new generation, known as the Icon-class ships. The two Oasis-class ships include Wonder of the Seas , which was delivered in January of 2022, and our sixth Oasis-class ship, which is expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2024. The Icon-class ships include Icon of the Seas, which is expected to be delivered in the third quarter of 2023, and the second and third Icon-class ships, which are expected to be delivered in the second quarters of 2025 and 2026, respectively. The expected delivery dates for all of our ships on order are subject to change in the event of shipyard construction delays. See Part I.