Item 1. Business Regency Centers Corporation is a fully integrated real estate company and self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that began its operations as a publicly-traded REIT in 1993. Regency Centers L.P. is the entity through which Regency Centers Corporation conducts substantially all of its operations and owns substantially all of its assets. Our business consists of acquiring, developing, owning and operating income-producing retail real estate principally located in many of the top markets in the United States. We generate revenues by leasing space to retail tenants such as highly productive grocers, restaurants, service providers, and best-in-class retailers. Following our merger with Equity One Inc. ( Equity One ) in 2017, Regency became an S P 500 Index member. As of December 31, 2019, we had full or partial ownership interests in 419 properties, primarily anchored by market leading grocery stores, encompassing 52.6 million square feet ( SF ) of gross leasable area ( GLA ). Our Pro-rata share of this GLA is 42.8 million square feet, including our share of the partially owned properties. Our mission is to be the preeminent national owner, operator, and developer of shopping centers, creating places that provide a thriving environment for outstanding retailers and service providers to connect with the surrounding neighborhoods and communities. Our goals are to: Own and manage a portfolio of high-quality neighborhood and community shopping centers anchored by market leading grocers and located in affluent suburban and near urban trade areas in the country s most desirable metro areas. We expect that this combination will produce highly desirable and attractive centers with best-in-class retailers. These centers should command higher rental and occupancy rates resulting in excellent prospects to grow net operating income ( NOI ) Maintain an industry leading and disciplined development and redevelopment platform to deliver exceptional retail centers at higher returns as compared to acquisitions Support our business activities with a conservative capital structure, including a strong balance sheet Attain best-in-class environmental, social, and governance practices Engage an exceptional and diverse team that is guided by our strong values and special culture, while fostering an environment of innovation and continuous improvement that will deploy industry-leading operating standards and Increase earnings per share and dividends and generate total returns at or near the top of our shopping center peers. Key strategies to achieve our goals are to: Sustain same property NOI growth that over the long-term consistently ranks at or near the top of our shopping center peers Develop and redevelop high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment Maintain a conservative balance sheet providing financial flexibility to cost effectively fund investment opportunities and debt maturities on a favorable basis, and to weather economic downturns 1 Maintain the highest standards for corporate governance and act as good stewards of our communities and the environment and Attract and motivate an exceptional team of employees who operate efficiently and are recognized as industry leaders. Corporate Responsibility Our vision is to be the preeminent national owner, operator and developer of shopping centers, connecting outstanding retailers and service providers with their neighborhoods and communities while practicing best-in-class corporate responsibility. We have established four pillars for our corporate responsibility program that we believe support our vision and mission: Our People Our Communities Ethics and Governance and Environmental Stewardship. Our people are our greatest asset and we work to support our highly engaged team that drives our business and is critical to achieving our strategic objectives. We maintain a safe and pleasant workspace, promote employee well-being, and empower our employees by focusing on health and benefits, training and education, safety, and diversity. Our team is also passionate about investing in and connecting with the communities in which we live and work. Philanthropy and giving back are cornerstones of what we do and who we are. Our local teams personally customize and cultivate our centers by bringing tenants and shoppers together and continually engage with the communities in which we operate. As stewards of our investors capital, we are committed to best-in-class corporate governance practice. We place great emphasis on integrity and transparency, which extends to our reporting practices, long-term value creation for our stakeholders, and strong culture of business compliance. We believe sustainability is in the best interest of our tenants, investors, employees, and the communities in which we operate. We have five strategic priorities when it comes to identifying and implementing sustainable business practices and minimizing our environmental impact: green building, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, water conservation, and waste minimization and management. We believe these commitments are not only the right thing to do to address material environmental topics such as air pollution, climate change, and resource scarcity, but also support us in achieving key strategic objectives in operations and development. We are committed to transparency with regard to our corporate responsibility and sustainability performance, risks and opportunities, and will continue to enhance disclosures using industry accepted reporting frameworks. More information about our corporate responsibility strategy, goals, performance, and formal disclosures are available on our website at www.regencycenters.com. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Competition We are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, GLA, and market capitalization. There are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. This results in competition for attracting tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. We believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas the design and high quality of our shopping centers the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. 2 Employees Our corporate headquarters are located at One Independent Drive, Suite 114, Jacksonville, Florida. We presently maintain 22 market offices nationwide, including our corporate headquarters, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. We have 450 employees throughout the United States and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. Compliance with Governmental Regulations Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove certain hazardous substances at our shopping centers that generally arise from dry cleaners, gas stations, and historic land use practices. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly address such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. Although we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of clean up, known environmental corrective actions are not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to our environmental insurance programs, various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state, and existing accrued liabilities. Executive Officers Our executive officers are appointed each year by our Board of Directors. Each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years and, as of December 31, 2019, included the following: Name Age Title Executive Officer in Position Shown Since Martin E. Stein, Jr. 67 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 1993 (1) Lisa Palmer 52 President 2016 (2) Michael J. Mas 44 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2019 (3) Dan M. Chandler, III 52 Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer 2019 (4) James D. Thompson 64 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer 2019 (5) (1) Mr. Stein was appointed Executive Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2020. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Stein served as Chief Executive Officer since 1993 and Chairman of the Board since 1999. (2) Ms. Palmer was named Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2020, in addition to her responsibilities as President, which position she has held since January 2016. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Palmer served as Chief Financial Officer since January 2013. Prior to that, Ms. Palmer served as Senior Vice President of Capital Markets since 2003 and has been with the Company since 1996. (3) Mr. Mas assumed the responsibilities of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective August 2019. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Mas served as Managing Director, Finance, since February 2017, and Senior Vice President, Capital Markets, since 2013. (4) Mr. Chandler assumed the role of Chief Investment Officer, effective August 2019, and Executive Vice President of Investments in 2016. Mr. Chandler previously served as Managing Director since 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Chandler served in various investment officer positions since 1999. (5) Mr. Thompson assumed the role of Chief Operating Officer, effective August 2019, and Executive Vice President of Operations in 2016. Mr. Thompson previously served as our Managing Director - East since 1993. Company Website Access and SEC Filings Our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, the most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, current reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . The content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. 3 General Information Our registrar and stock transfer agent is Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, Inc. ( Broadridge ), Philadelphia, PA. We offer a dividend reinvestment plan ( DRIP ) that enables our shareholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. For more information, contact Broadridge toll free at (855) 449-0975 or our Shareholder Relations Department at (904) 598-7000. The Company's common stock is listed on NASDAQ and trades under the stock symbol REG . Our independent registered public accounting firm is KPMG LLP, Jacksonville, Florida. Our legal counsel is Foley Lardner LLP, Jacksonville, Florida. Annual Meeting of Shareholders Our 2020 annual meeting of shareholders will be held at the Ponte Vedra Inn and Club, 200 Ponte Vedra Blvd., Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, at 9:00 a.m. on Wednesday, April 29, 2020. Defined Terms In addition to the required Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) presentations, we use certain non-GAAP performance measures as we believe these measures improve the understanding of our operational results. We continually evaluate the usefulness, relevance, limitations, and calculation of our reported non-GAAP performance measures to determine how best to provide relevant information to the public, and thus such reported measures could change. The following terms, as defined, are commonly used by management and the investing public to understand and evaluate our operational results: Development Completion is a property in development that is deemed complete upon the earliest of: (i) 90% of total estimated net development costs have been incurred and percent leased equals or exceeds 95%, or (ii) the property features at least two years of anchor operations, or (iii) three years have passed since the start of construction. Once deemed complete, the property is termed a Retail Operating Property the following calendar year. Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is defined as Operating EBITDA re divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders. NAREIT EBITDAre is a measure of REIT performance, which the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ( NAREIT ) defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding (i) interest expense, (ii) income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) gains on sales of real estate, (v) impairments of real estate, and (vi) adjustments to reflect the Company's share of unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We provide a reconciliation of Net Income to NAREIT EBITDA re . NAREIT Funds from Operations ( NAREIT FFO ) is a commonly used measure of REIT performance, which NAREIT defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains on sales and impairments of real estate, net of tax, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We compute NAREIT FFO for all periods presented in accordance with NAREIT's definition in effect during that period. Effective January 1, 2019, we prospectively adopted the NAREIT FFO White Paper 2018 Restatement ( 2018 FFO White Paper ), and elected the option of excluding gains on sale and impairments of land, which are considered incidental to our main business. Prior period amounts were not restated to conform to the current year presentation, and therefore are calculated as described above, and also include gains on sale and impairments of land. Companies use different depreciable lives and methods, and real estate values historically fluctuate with market conditions. Since NAREIT FFO excludes depreciation and amortization and gains on sales and impairments of real estate, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs, acquisition and development activities, and financing costs. This provides a perspective of our financial performance not immediately apparent from net income determined in accordance with GAAP. Thus, NAREIT FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of our operating performance, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and, therefore, should not be considered a substitute measure of cash flows from operations. We provide a reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders to NAREIT FFO. Net Operating Income ( NOI ) is the sum of base rent, percentage rent, recoveries from tenants, other lease income, and other property income, less operating and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes, ground rent, and uncollectible lease income / provision for doubtful accounts. NOI excludes straight-line rental income and expense, above and below market 4 rent and ground rent amortization, tenant lease inducement amortization, and other fees. We also provide disclosure of NOI excluding termination fees, which excludes both termination fee income and expenses. Non-Same Property is any property, during either calendar year period being compared, that was acquired, sold, a Property in Development, a Development Completion, or a property under, or being positioned for, significant redevelopment that distorts comparability between periods. Non-retail properties and corporate activities, including the captive insurance program, are part of Non-Same Property. Operating EBITDAre begins with the NAREIT EBITDA re and excludes certain non-cash components of earnings derived from above and below market rent amortization and straight-line rents. We provide a reconciliation of Net Income to NAREIT EBITDA re to Operating EBITDA re. Pro-rata information includes 100% of our consolidated properties plus our economic share (based on our ownership interest) in our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships. We provide Pro-rata financial information because we believe it assists investors and analysts in estimating our economic interest in our consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships, when read in conjunction with the Company s reported results under GAAP. We believe presenting our Pro-rata share of assets, liabilities, operating results, and certain operating metrics, along with other non-GAAP measures, makes comparisons of other REITs' operating results to ours more meaningful. The Pro-rata information provided is not, nor is it intended to be, presented in accordance with GAAP. The Pro-rata supplemental details of assets and liabilities and supplemental details of operations reflect our proportionate economic ownership of the assets, liabilities and operating results of the properties in our portfolio The Pro-rata information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts and is intended to more accurately reflect our proportionate economic interest in the assets, liabilities, and operating results of properties in our portfolio. We do not control the unconsolidated investment partnerships, and the Pro-rata presentations of the assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses do not represent our legal claim to such items. The partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the operating agreements, which generally provide for such allocations according to their invested capital. Our share of invested capital establishes the ownership interests we use to prepare our Pro-rata share. The presentation of Pro-rata information has limitations which include, but are not limited to, the following: o The amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting or allocating noncontrolling interests, and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses and o Other companies in our industry may calculate their Pro-rata interest differently, limiting the comparability of Pro-rata information. Because of these limitations, the Pro-rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP financial statements, using the Pro-rata information as a supplement. Property In Development includes properties in various stages of ground-up development. Property In Redevelopment includes Retail Operating Properties under redevelopment or being positioned for redevelopment. Unless otherwise indicated, a Property in Redevelopment is included in the Same Property pool. Retail Operating Property is any retail property not termed a Property in Development. A retail property is any property where the majority of the income is generated from retail uses. Same Property is a Retail Operating Property that was owned and operated for the entirety of both calendar year periods being compared. This term excludes Properties in Development, prior year Development Completions, and Non-Same Properties. Properties in Redevelopment are included unless otherwise indicated. 5