Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 38 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 70 I tem 1C. Cybersecurity 70 Item 2. Properties 71 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 71 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 71 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters , and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 72 Item 6. [Reserved] 73 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 73 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 89 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 90 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B. Other Information 91 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 91 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 91 Item 11. Executive Compensation 91 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 91 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 91 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 91 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 92 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 SIGNATURE PAGE 97 "Altibodies ," "ARCALYST ," "Evkeeza ," "EYLEA ," "EYLEA HD," "Inmazeb ," "Libtayo ," "Praluent " (in the United States), "REGEN-COV ," "Regeneron ," "Regeneron Genetics Center ," "RGC ," " Veloci-Bi ," " VelociGene ," " VelociHum ," " VelociMab ," " VelocImmune ," " VelociMouse ," " VelociSuite ," " VelociT ," "Veopoz ," and "ZALTRAP " are trademarks of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Trademarks and trade names of other companies appearing in this report are, to the knowledge of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the property of their respective owners. This report refers to products of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., its collaborators, and other parties. Consult the product label in each territory for specific information about such products. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (where applicable, together with its subsidiaries, "Regeneron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our"), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others: the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of products marketed or otherwise commercialized by Regeneron and/or its collaborators or licensees (collectively, "Regeneron's Products") and product candidates being developed by Regeneron and/or its collaborators or licensees (collectively, "Regeneron's Product Candidates") and research and clinical programs now underway or planned, including without limitation those discussed or referenced in this report, Regeneron's and its collaborators' earlier-stage programs, and the use of human genetics in Regeneron's research programs; the likelihood and timing of achieving any of our anticipated development milestones referenced in this report; safety issues resulting from the administration of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates in patients, including serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates in clinical trials; the likelihood, timing, and scope of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for Regeneron's Products, including without limitation those discussed or referenced in this report; the extent to which the results from the research and development programs conducted by us and/or our collaborators may be replicated in other studies and/or lead to advancement of product candidates to clinical trials, therapeutic applications, or regulatory approval; ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight impacting Regeneron's Products, research and clinical programs, and business, including those relating to patient privacy; determinations by regulatory and administrative governmental authorities which may delay or restrict our ability to continue to develop or commercialize Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; competing drugs and product candidates that may be superior to, or more cost effective than, Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; uncertainty of the utilization, market acceptance, and commercial success of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates and the impact of studies (whether conducted by Regeneron or others and whether mandated or voluntary) or recommendations and guidelines from governmental authorities and other third parties on the commercial success of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; our ability to manufacture and manage supply chains for multiple products and product candidates; the ability of our collaborators, suppliers, or other third parties (as applicable) to perform manufacturing, filling, finishing, packaging, labeling, distribution, and other steps related to Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; the availability and extent of reimbursement of Regeneron's Products from third-party payors, including private payor healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; coverage and reimbursement determinations by such payors and new policies and procedures adopted by such payors; unanticipated expenses; the costs of developing, producing, and selling products; our ability to meet any of our financial projections or guidance, including without limitation capital expenditures, and changes to the assumptions underlying those projections or guidance; the potential for any license or collaboration agreement, including our agreements with Sanofi and Bayer (or their respective affiliated companies, as applicable), to be cancelled or terminated; the impact of public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) on our business; and risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto (including without limitation the patent litigation and other related proceedings described further in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report), other litigation and other proceedings and government investigations relating to the Company and/or its operations (including without limitation those described in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report), the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings and investigations, and the impact any of the foregoing may have on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. These statements are made based on management's current beliefs and judgment, and the reader is cautioned not to rely on any such statements. In evaluating such statements, shareholders and potential investors should specifically consider the various 2 Table of Contents factors identified under Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update (publicly or otherwise) any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. General Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for people with serious diseases. Our products and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, hematologic conditions, infectious diseases, and rare diseases. Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to build on that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. Our objective is to continue to advance as an integrated, multi-product biotechnology company that provides patients and medical professionals with important medicines for preventing and treating human diseases. Selected financial information is summarized as follows: Year Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021 Revenues $ 13,117.2 $ 12,172.9 $ 16,071.7 Net income $ 3,953.6 $ 4,338.4 $ 8,075.3 Net income per share - diluted $ 34.77 $ 38.22 $ 71.97 For purposes of this report, references to our products encompass products marketed or otherwise commercialized by us and/or our collaborators or licensees and references to our product candidates encompass product candidates in development by us and/or our collaborators or licensees (in the case of collaborated or licensed products or product candidates under the terms of the applicable collaboration or license agreements), unless otherwise stated or required by the context. Products Products that have received marketing approval are summarized in the table below. Certain products have also received marketing approval in countries outside the United States, European Union ("EU"), or Japan. Product Disease Territory U.S. EU Japan EYLEA HD (aflibercept) Injection 8 mg (a) Wet age-related macular degeneration ("wAMD") a a a Diabetic macular edema ("DME") a a a Diabetic retinopathy ("DR") a EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection (a) wAMD a a a DME a a a DR a Macular edema following retinal vein occlusion ("RVO"), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion ("CRVO") and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion ("BRVO") a a a Myopic choroidal neovascularization ("mCNV") a a Neovascular glaucoma ("NVG") a Retinopathy of prematurity ("ROP") a a a Dupixent (dupilumab) Injection (b) Atopic dermatitis (in adults, adolescents, and pediatrics aged 6 months and older) a a a Asthma (in adults and adolescents) a a a 3 Table of Contents Product (continued) Disease Territory U.S. EU Japan Dupixent (dupilumab) Injection (b) (continued) Asthma (in pediatrics 6 11 years of age) a a Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis ("CRSwNP") a a a Eosinophilic esophagitis ("EoE") (in adults and adolescents) a a EoE (in pediatrics 1 11 years of age) a Prurigo nodularis a a a Libtayo (cemiplimab) Injection (c) Metastatic or locally advanced first-line non-small cell lung cancer ("NSCLC") a a Metastatic or locally advanced first-line NSCLC (in combination with chemotherapy) a a Metastatic or locally advanced basal cell carcinoma ("BCC") a a Metastatic or locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma ("CSCC") a a Metastatic or recurrent second-line cervical cancer a a Praluent (alirocumab) Injection (d) LDL-lowering in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("HeFH") or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ("ASCVD") a a HeFH in pediatrics and adolescents (8 17 years of age) a Cardiovascular risk reduction in patients with established cardiovascular disease a a Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("HoFH") a REGEN-COV (e) COVID-19 a a Kevzara (sarilumab) Injection (b) Rheumatoid arthritis ("RA") a a a Polymyalgia rheumatica ("PMR") a Evkeeza (evinacumab) Injection (f) HoFH (in adults, adolescents, and pediatrics aged 5 years and older) a a a Inmazeb (atoltivimab, maftivimab, and odesivimab) Injection Infection caused by Zaire ebolavirus a Veopoz (pozelimab) Injection CD55-deficient protein-losing enteropathy ("CHAPLE") (in adults, adolescents, and pediatrics aged 1 year and older) a ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection (g) Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes ("CAPS"), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome ("FCAS") and Muckle-Wells syndrome ("MWS") (in adults and adolescents) a Deficiency of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist ("DIRA") (in adults, adolescents, and pediatrics) a Recurrent pericarditis (in adults and adolescents) a ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion (h) Metastatic colorectal cancer ("mCRC") a a a 4 Table of Contents Note: Refer to table below (net product sales of Regeneron-discovered products) for information regarding whether net product sales for a particular product are recorded by us or others. In addition, unless otherwise noted, products in the table above are generally approved for use in adults in the above-referenced diseases. (a) In collaboration with Bayer outside the United States. Aflibercept 8 mg is known as EYLEA HD in the United States and EYLEA 8 mg in other countries. (b) In collaboration with Sanofi (c) In collaboration with Sanofi prior to July 2022. Effective July 2022, the Company is solely responsible for the development, commercialization, and manufacturing of Libtayo. Refer to "Collaboration, License, and Other Agreements" section below for further details. (d) The Company is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of Praluent in the United States and Sanofi is responsible for the development and commercialization of Praluent outside the United States. (e) In collaboration with Roche. Product is known as REGEN-COV in the United States and Ronapreve in other countries. (f) The Company is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of Evkeeza in the United States and Ultragenyx is responsible for the development and commercialization of Evkeeza outside the United States. (g) Kiniksa is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ARCALYST. (h) Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP. Net product sales of Regeneron-discovered products consist of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 (In millions) U.S. ROW (g) Total U.S. ROW Total U.S. ROW Total EYLEA HD (a) $ 165.8 $ $ 165.8 $ $ $ $ $ $ EYLEA (a) $ 5,719.6 $ 3,495.2 $ 9,214.8 $ 6,264.6 $ 3,382.8 $ 9,647.4 $ 5,792.3 $ 3,450.9 $ 9,243.2 Total EYLEA HD and EYLEA $ 5,885.4 $ 3,495.2 $ 9,380.6 $ 6,264.6 $ 3,382.8 $ 9,647.4 $ 5,792.3 $ 3,450.9 $ 9,243.2 Dupixent (b) $ 8,855.6 $ 2,732.5 $ 11,588.1 $ 6,668.0 $ 2,013.2 $ 8,681.2 $ 4,713.0 $ 1,485.3 $ 6,198.3 Libtayo (c) $ 538.8 $ 330.0 $ 868.8 $ 374.5 $ 203.5 $ 578.0 $ 306.3 $ 151.9 $ 458.2 Praluent (d) $ 182.4 $ 456.5 $ 638.9 $ 130.0 $ 337.4 $ 467.4 $ 170.0 $ 251.1 $ 421.1 REGEN-COV (e) $ $ 618.8 $ 618.8 $ $ 1,769.6 $ 1,769.6 $ 5,828.0 $ 1,745.9 $ 7,573.9 Kevzara (b) $ 214.7 $ 171.2 $ 385.9 $ 199.7 $ 158.3 $ 358.0 $ 161.9 $ 176.1 $ 338.0 Other products (f) $ 150.5 $ 67.4 $ 217.9 $ 56.1 $ 69.1 $ 125.2 $ 25.9 $ 86.4 $ 112.3 (a) Regeneron records net product sales of EYLEA HD and EYLEA in the United States, and Bayer records net product sales outside the United States. The Company records its share of profits in connection with sales outside the United States. (b) Sanofi records global net product sales of Dupixent and Kevzara. The Company records its share of profits in connection with global sales of Dupixent and Kevzara. (c) Prior to July 1, 2022, Regeneron recorded net product sales of Libtayo in the United States and Sanofi recorded net product sales of Libtayo outside the United States. The parties equally shared profits/losses in connection with global sales of Libtayo. Effective July 1, 2022, the Company began recording net product sales of Libtayo outside the United States and pays Sanofi a royalty on global sales. Refer to "Collaboration, License, and Other Agreements" section below for further details. Included in this line item for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 is approximately $6 million and $34 million, respectively, of net product sales recorded by Sanofi in connection with sales in certain markets outside the United States (Sanofi recorded net product sales in such markets during a transition period until inventory on hand as of July 1, 2022 had been sold through to the end customers). (d) Regeneron records net product sales of Praluent in the United States. Sanofi records net product sales of Praluent outside the United States and pays the Company a royalty on such sales. (e) Regeneron records net product sales of REGEN-COV in the United States and Roche records net product sales of Ronapreve outside the United States. The parties share gross profits from global sales of REGEN-COV and Ronapreve based on a pre-specified formula. (f) Included in this line item are products which are sold by the Company and others. Refer to Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Revenues" for a complete listing of net product sales recorded by the Company. Not included in this line item are net product sales of ARCALYST subsequent to the first quarter of 2021, which are recorded by Kiniksa. (g) Rest of world ("ROW") 5 Table of Contents Programs in Clinical Development Product candidates in clinical development, which are being developed by us and/or our collaborators, are summarized in the table below. There are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development (including any post-approval studies), uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, changes to drug pricing and reimbursement regulations and requirements, and changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate. The planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a description of risks and uncertainties that may affect our clinical programs. Any of such risks and uncertainties may, among other matters, negatively impact the development timelines set forth in the table below. 6 Table of Contents Clinical Program Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2023 and 2024 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Ophthalmology EYLEA HD (aflibercept) 8 mg (a) RVO Approved by U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") for wAMD, DME, and DR Approved by European Commission ("EC") and Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare ("MHLW") for wAMD and DME Reported positive two-year data from Phase 3 studies in wAMD and DME Initiate Phase 3 study in RVO (mid-2024) to enable FDA submission EYLEA (aflibercept) (a) Approved by FDA for ROP Pozelimab (f) (REGN3918) Antibody to C5 Initiate Phase 3 study in combination with cemdisiran in geographic atrophy (second half 2024) Immunology Inflammation Dupixent (dupilumab) (b) Antibody to IL-4R alpha subunit Ulcerative colitis Eosinophilic gastroenteritis (Phase 2/3) Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ("COPD") (d) Bullous pemphigoid (c) Chronic spontaneous urticaria ("CSU") Chronic pruritus of unknown origin EoE in pediatrics (1 11 years of age) (EU) COPD with type 2 inflammatory phenotype (U.S. and EU) CSU in adults and adolescents (Japan) Approved by EC for atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) Approved by MHLW for atopic dermatitis in pediatrics and adolescents (6 months 14 years of age) Approved by FDA for EoE in pediatrics (1 11 years of age) Approved by EC for EoE in adults and adolescents Approved by MHLW for prurigo nodularis EC decision on regulatory submission for EoE in pediatrics (second half 2024) FDA decision on supplemental Biologics License Application ("sBLA") (mid/second half 2024) and EC decision on regulatory submission (second half 2024) for COPD with type 2 inflammatory phenotype 7 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2023 and 2024 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Dupixent (dupilumab) (b) (continued) Reported that Phase 3 BOREAS trial in COPD with evidence of type 2 inflammation met its primary and all key secondary endpoints; presented at 2023 American Thoracic Society International Conference and published in New England Journal of Medicine Reported that results from interim analysis of replicate Phase 3 NOTUS trial in COPD with evidence of type 2 inflammation met its primary endpoint FDA issued Complete Response Letter ("CRL") for sBLA for CSU due to requirement for additional efficacy data Phase 3 trial in chronic cold induced urticaria did not meet its required efficacy endpoints Discontinued further clinical development in allergic fungal rhinosinusitis and chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyposis MHLW decision on regulatory submission for CSU in adults and adolescents (first half 2024) Report results from ongoing Phase 3 trial in CSU (in biologic-na ve patients) (fourth quarter 2024) Report results from Phase 3 trial in bullous pemphigoid (second half 2024) Initiate Phase 1 study in severe food allergy following transient linvoseltamab treatment (2024) Kevzara (sarilumab) (b) Antibody to IL-6R Polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("pcJIA") (pivotal study) Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("sJIA") (pivotal study) PMR (EU) pcJIA (U.S. and EU) Approved by FDA for PMR EC decision on regulatory submission for PMR (second half 2024) FDA decision on sBLA (target action date of June 10, 2024) and EC decision (second half 2024) on regulatory submission for pcJIA 8 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2023 and 2024 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Itepekimab (b) (REGN3500) Antibody to IL-33 COPD (e) Phase 3 COPD program passed interim futility analysis conducted by Independent Data Monitoring Committee ("IDMC") Report results from Phase 3 study in COPD (2025) REGN5713-5714-5715 Multi-antibody therapy to Bet v 1 Birch allergy Solid Organ Oncology Libtayo (cemiplimab) (g) Antibody to PD-1 Neoadjuvant CSCC First-line NSCLC, BNT116 (r) combination Adjuvant CSCC Approved by EC for first-line NSCLC, chemotherapy combination Conduct interim analysis from Phase 3 study in adjuvant CSCC (second half 2024) Fianlimab (f) (REGN3767) Antibody to LAG-3 Solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies First-line advanced NSCLC (Phase 2/3) (pivotal study) First-line metastatic melanoma (e) First-line adjuvant melanoma Presented positive data from Phase 1 trial (in combination with Libtayo) in advanced melanoma at 2023 American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") Annual Meeting Initiate potentially pivotal Phase 2 study (in combination with Libtayo) in perioperative melanoma (first half 2024) Initiate Phase 2 study (in combination with Libtayo) in perioperative NSCLC (first half 2024) Initiate Phase 2 study (in combination with Libtayo) in perioperative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (2024) Report potentially pivotal initial results from Phase 2/3 study in first-line metastatic melanoma (second half 2024) Report initial data from Phase 2/3 study in first-line advanced NSCLC (second half 2024) Vidutolimod Immune activator targeting TLR9 Solid tumors 9 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2023 and 2024 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Ubamatamab (f) (REGN4018) Bispecific antibody targeting MUC16 and CD3 Platinum-resistant ovarian cancer Presented results from Phase 1/2 study (in combination with Libtayo) in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer at European Society for Medical Oncology ("ESMO") Congress REGN5668 (n) Bispecific antibody targeting MUC16 and CD28 Platinum-resistant ovarian cancer REGN5678 Bispecific antibody targeting PSMA and CD28 Prostate cancer Discontinued enrollment in cohorts in combination with full-dose Libtayo (cemiplimab) Expanded enrollment in monotherapy cohort Initiate cohorts in combination with REGN4336 in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (first half 2024) REGN4336 Bispecific antibody targeting PSMA and CD3 Prostate cancer Davutamig (REGN5093) Bispecific antibody targeting two distinct MET epitopes MET-altered advanced NSCLC REGN5093-M114 Bispecific antibody-drug conjugate targeting two distinct MET epitopes MET overexpressing advanced cancer REGN6569 Antibody to GITR Solid tumors REGN7075 Bispecific antibody targeting EGFR and CD28 Solid tumors Initiate dose-expansion cohorts (in combination with Libtayo) in EGFR-high tumors (first half 2024) 10 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2023 and 2024 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Hematology Pozelimab (f) (REGN3918) Antibody to C5 Myasthenia gravis, cemdisiran combination (c)(s) Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ("PNH"), cemdisiran combination (c)(s) Veopoz (pozelimab) approved by FDA for CHAPLE in adults and children aged 1 year and older, monotherapy Odronextamab (m) (REGN1979) Bispecific antibody targeting CD20 and CD3 Certain B-cell malignancies (c) B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma ("B-NHL") (pivotal study) Follicular lymphoma ("FL") Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ("DLBCL") Relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL (U.S. and EU) Presented updated data from trials in patients with relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL at American Society of Hematology ("ASH") Annual Meeting FDA decision on BLA (target action date of March 31, 2024) and EC decision on regulatory submission (second half 2024) for relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL REGN5837 (p) Bispecific antibody targeting CD22 and CD28 B-NHL Linvoseltamab (f) (REGN5458) Bispecific antibody targeting BCMA and CD3 Multiple myeloma (c)(e) Multiple myeloma (pivotal study) (c)(e) Earlier (pre-malignant) multiple myeloma Multiple myeloma (c)(e) Relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (U.S. and EU) Presented updated positive data from pivotal trial in multiple myeloma at ASCO and ASH Annual Meetings FDA decision on BLA (second half 2024) and EC decision on regulatory submission (first half 2025) for relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma REGN5459 (f) Bispecific antibody targeting BCMA and CD3 Transplant desensitization in patients with chronic kidney disease REGN7257 Antibody to IL2Rg Aplastic anemia NTLA-2001 (j) TTR gene knockout using CRISPR/Cas9 Transthyretin ("ATTR") amyloidosis (c) ATTR amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy ("ATTR-CM") REGN9933 Antibody to Factor XI Thrombosis Report results from Phase 2 study in thrombosis (second half 2024) REGN7508 Antibody to Factor XI Thrombosis 11 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2023 and 2024 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones REGN7999 Antibody to TMPRSS6 Transfusion dependent iron overload Internal Medicine/Genetic Medicines Praluent (alirocumab) Antibody to PCSK9 HeFH in pediatrics and adolescents HeFH in pediatrics and adolescents (8 17 years of age) (U.S.) Approved by EC for HeFH in pediatrics and adolescents (8 17 years of age) FDA decision on sBLA for HeFH in pediatrics and adolescents (target action date of March 10, 2024) Evkeeza (f)(l) (evinacumab) Antibody to ANGPTL3 Approved by FDA and EC for HoFH in pediatrics (5 11 years of age) and MHLW for HoFH in adults, adolescents, and pediatrics Garetosmab (f) (REGN2477) Antibody to Activin A Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ("FOP") (c)(d)(e) Trevogrumab (f) (REGN1033) Antibody to myostatin (GDF8) Initiate Phase 2 study in combination with semaglutide with and without garetosmab (mid-2024) Mibavademab (f) (REGN4461) Agonist antibody to leptin receptor ("LEPR") Generalized lipodystrophy (d)(e) Presented results from Phase 2 study in generalized lipodystrophy at ENDO 2023 REGN5381/REGN9035 Agonist antibody to NPR1/reversal agent to REGN5381 Reversal agent in healthy volunteers Heart failure Resumed enrollment in previously paused Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies following protocol amendments Reported positive initial data from Phase 1 trial in healthy volunteers REGN7544 Antagonist antibody to NPR1 Healthy volunteers ALN-HSD (o) RNAi therapeutic targeting HSD17B13 Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ("NASH") 12 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2023 and 2024 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones ALN-PNP (k) RNAi therapeutic targeting PNPLA3 NASH ALN-APP (k) RNAi therapeutic targeting APP Early-onset Alzheimer s disease (q) Reported positive interim data from single dose part of Phase 1 trial in early-onset Alzheimer s disease DB-OTO AAV-based gene therapy Hearing loss in pediatrics (c) (Phase 1/2) Reported preliminary, positive safety and efficacy results from first patient dosed in Phase 1/2 trial in pediatrics with hearing loss "Next Generation" Covid Antibody (i) Antibody to SARS-CoV-2 variants Healthy volunteers REGN13335 Antagonist antibody to PDGF-B Healthy volunteers 13 Table of Contents Note: For purposes of the table above, a program is classified in Phase 1, 2, or 3 clinical development after recruitment for the corresponding study or studies has commenced. (a) In collaboration with Bayer outside the United States (b) In collaboration with Sanofi (c) FDA granted orphan drug designation (d) FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation (e) FDA granted Fast Track designation (f) Sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on sales of the product, if any. (g) Studied as monotherapy and in combination with other antibodies and treatments (h) Information in this column relates to U.S., EU, and Japan regulatory submissions only (i) We and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development A