Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 40 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 74 Item 2. Properties 74 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 75 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 75 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 75 Item 6. [RESERVED] 78 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 78 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 91 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 92 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 101 SIGNATURE PAGE 102 "ARCALYST ," "Evkeeza ," "EYLEA ," "Inmazeb ," "Libtayo " (in the United States), "Praluent " (in the United States), "REGEN-COV ," "Regeneron ," "Regeneron Genetics Center ," "RGC ," "Veloci-Bi ," "VelociGene ," "VelociHum ," "VelociMab ," "VelocImmune ," "VelociMouse ," "VelociSuite ," "VelociT ," and "ZALTRAP " are trademarks of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Trademarks and trade names of other companies appearing in this report are, to the knowledge of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the property of their respective owners. This report refers to products of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., its collaborators, and other parties. Consult the product label in each territory for specific information about such products. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (where applicable, together with its subsidiaries, "Regeneron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our"), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the impact of SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that has caused the COVID-19 pandemic) on Regeneron's business and its employees, collaborators, and suppliers and other third parties on which Regeneron relies, Regeneron's and its collaborators ability to continue to conduct research and clinical programs, Regeneron's ability to manage its supply chain, net product sales of products marketed or otherwise commercialized by Regeneron and/or its collaborators or licensees (collectively, "Regeneron s Products"), and the global economy; the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of Regeneron's Products and product candidates being developed by Regeneron and/or its collaborators or licensees (collectively, "Regeneron's Product Candidates") and research and clinical programs now underway or planned, including without limitation EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection, Dupixent (dupilumab) Injection, Libtayo (cemiplimab) Injection, Praluent (alirocumab) Injection, Kevzara (sarilumab) Injection, Evkeeza (evinacumab), Inmazeb (atoltivimab, maftivimab, and odesivimab-ebgn), REGEN-COV (casirivimab and imdevimab), aflibercept 8 mg, fasinumab, pozelimab, odronextamab, itepekimab, REGN5458, REGN5713-5714-5715, REGN1908-1909, Regeneron's other oncology programs (including its costimulatory bispecific portfolio), Regeneron's and its collaborators' earlier-stage programs, and the use of human genetics in Regeneron's research programs; the likelihood and timing of achieving any of our anticipated development milestones referenced in this report; safety issues resulting from the administration of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates in patients, including serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates in clinical trials; the likelihood, timing, and scope of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for Regeneron's Products, including without limitation those listed above; the extent to which the results from the research and development programs conducted by us and/or our collaborators may be replicated in other studies and/or lead to advancement of product candidates to clinical trials, therapeutic applications, or regulatory approval; ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight impacting Regeneron's Products, research and clinical programs, and business, including those relating to patient privacy; determinations by regulatory and administrative governmental authorities which may delay or restrict our ability to continue to develop or commercialize Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; competing drugs and product candidates that may be superior to, or more cost effective than, Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; uncertainty of the utilization, market acceptance, and commercial success of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates and the impact of studies (whether conducted by Regeneron or others and whether mandated or voluntary) or recommendations and guidelines from governmental authorities and other third parties on the commercial success of Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; our ability to manufacture and manage supply chains for multiple products and product candidates; the ability of our collaborators, suppliers, or other third parties (as applicable) to perform manufacturing, filling, finishing, packaging, labeling, distribution, and other steps related to Regeneron's Products and Regeneron's Product Candidates; the availability and extent of reimbursement of Regeneron s Products from third-party payors, including private payor healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; coverage and reimbursement determinations by such payors and new policies and procedures adopted by such payors; unanticipated expenses; the costs of developing, producing, and selling products; our ability to meet any of our financial projections or guidance, including without limitation capital expenditures, and changes to the assumptions underlying those projections or guidance; the potential for any license or collaboration agreement, including our agreements with Sanofi, Bayer, and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (or their respective affiliated companies, as applicable), as well as Regeneron's agreement with Roche relating to the casirivimab and imdevimab antibody cocktail (known as REGEN-COV in the United States and Ronapreve in other countries), to be cancelled or terminated; and risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto (including without limitation the patent litigation and other related proceedings relating to EYLEA, Dupixent, Praluent, and REGEN-COV described further in Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report), other litigation and other proceedings and government investigations relating to the Company and/or its operations (including without limitation those described in Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report), the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings and investigations, and the impact any of the foregoing may have on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. These statements are made based on management's current beliefs and judgment, and the reader is cautioned not to rely on any such statements. In evaluating such statements, shareholders and potential investors should specifically consider the various factors identified under Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update (publicly or otherwise) any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2 Table of Contents General Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for serious diseases. Our commercialized medicines and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, pain, hematologic conditions, infectious diseases, and rare diseases. Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to build on that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. Our objective is to continue to be an integrated, multi-product biotechnology company that provides patients and medical professionals with important options for preventing and treating human diseases. Selected financial information is summarized as follows: Year Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2021 2020 2019 Revenues $ 16,071.7 $ 8,497.1 $ 6,557.6 Net income $ 8,075.3 $ 3,513.2 $ 2,115.8 Net income per share - diluted $ 71.97 $ 30.52 $ 18.46 For purposes of this report, references to our products encompass products marketed or otherwise commercialized by us and/or our collaborators or licensees and references to our product candidates encompass product candidates in development by us and/or our collaborators or licensees (in the case of collaborated or licensed products or product candidates under the terms of the applicable collaboration or license agreements), unless otherwise stated or required by the context. Products Products that have received marketing approval are summarized in the table below. Product Disease Territory U.S. EU Japan ROW (4) EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection (1) - Neovascular age-related macular degeneration ("wet AMD") a a a a - Diabetic macular edema ("DME") a a a a - Macular edema following retinal vein occlusion ("RVO"), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion ("CRVO") and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion ("BRVO") a a a a - Myopic choroidal neovascularization ("mCNV") a a a - Diabetic retinopathy a - Neovascular glaucoma ("NVG") a Dupixent (dupilumab) Injection (2) - Atopic dermatitis (in adults and adolescents) a a a a - Atopic dermatitis (in pediatrics 6 11 years of age) a a a - Asthma (in adults and adolescents) a a a a - Asthma (in pediatrics 6 11 years of age) a - Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis ("CRSwNP") a a a a 3 Table of Contents Product (continued) Disease Territory U.S. EU Japan ROW (4) Libtayo (cemiplimab) Injection (2) - Metastatic or locally advanced first-line non-small cell lung cancer ("NSCLC") a a a - Metastatic or locally advanced basal cell carcinoma ("BCC") a a a - Metastatic or locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma ("CSCC") a a a Praluent (alirocumab) Injection (3) - LDL-lowering in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("HeFH") or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ("ASCVD") a a a - Cardiovascular risk reduction in patients with established cardiovascular disease a a a - Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("HoFH") a REGEN-COV (5) - COVID-19 a a a Kevzara (sarilumab) Solution for Subcutaneous Injection (2) - Rheumatoid arthritis ("RA") a a a a Evkeeza (evinacumab) Injection (6) - HoFH (in adults and adolescents) a a Inmazeb (atoltivimab, maftivimab, and odesivimab-ebgn) Injection - Infection caused by Zaire ebolavirus a ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use (7) - Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes ("CAPS"), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome ("FCAS") and Muckle-Wells syndrome ("MWS") (in adults and adolescents) a - Deficiency of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist ("DIRA") (in adults and pediatrics) a - Recurrent pericarditis (in adults and adolescents) a ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion (8) - Metastatic colorectal cancer ("mCRC") a a a a Note: Refer to "Net Product Sales of Regeneron-Discovered Products" section below for information regarding whether net product sales for a particular product are recorded by us or others. In addition, unless otherwise noted, products in the table above are approved for use in adults in the above-referenced diseases. (1) In collaboration with Bayer outside the United States (2) In collaboration with Sanofi (3) Pursuant to a 2020 agreement, the Company is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of Praluent in the United States, and Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of Praluent outside of the United States (and Sanofi pays us a royalty on net product sales of Praluent outside the United States). (4) Rest of world ("ROW"). A checkmark in this column indicates that the product has received marketing approval in at least one country outside of the United States, European Union ("EU"), or Japan. (5) Known as REGEN-COV in the United States and Ronapreve in other countries (6) In January 2022, the Company entered into a license and collaboration agreement for Ultragenyx to develop and commercialize Evkeeza outside of the United States. Ultragenyx pays us a percentage of net product sales of Evkeeza outside the United States and the Company is also eligible to receive regulatory and sales milestone payments. 4 Table of Contents (7) Pursuant to a 2017 license agreement with Kiniksa, we granted Kiniksa the right to develop and commercialize certain new indications for ARCALYST. In March 2021, Kiniksa received marketing approval for its first new indication of ARCALYST in the United States; consequently we granted U.S. commercial rights to ARCALYST for all previously approved indications and Kiniksa pays us a share of ARCALYST profits. (8) Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and Sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net product sales of ZALTRAP. REGEN-COV - Emergency and Temporary Use Authorizations In November 2020, the antibody cocktail casirivimab and imdevimab administered together, known as REGEN-COV in the United States, received Emergency Use Authorization ("EUA") from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") for the treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19 in adults, as well as in pediatric patients at least 12 years of age and weighing at least 40 kg, who have received positive results of direct SARS-CoV-2 viral testing and are at high risk for progressing to severe COVID-19 and/or hospitalization. The EUA is temporary and does not replace a formal Biologics License Application ("BLA") submission review and approval process. This use is authorized only for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of the emergency use, unless terminated or revoked sooner. In June 2021, the FDA updated the EUA for REGEN-COV, lowering the dose to 1,200 mg (which is half the dose originally authorized) and allowing for subcutaneous injections as an alternative when intravenous ("IV") infusion is not feasible and would lead to a delay in treatment. In July 2021, the FDA also expanded the EUA to include post-exposure prophylaxis in people at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, who are not fully vaccinated or are not expected to mount an adequate response to vaccination, and who have been exposed to a SARS-CoV-2 infected individual or are at high risk of exposure to an infected individual because of infection occurring in the same institutional setting (such as in nursing homes or prisons). Based on laboratory data that showed markedly decreased binding to the Omicron spike protein, REGEN-COV is highly unlikely to be active against the Omicron variant. In January 2022, the FDA revised the EUA for REGEN-COV to exclude its use in geographic regions where, based on available information including variant susceptibility and regional variant frequency, infection or exposure is likely due to a variant such as Omicron (B.1.1.529) that is not susceptible to the treatment. With this EUA revision, REGEN-COV is not currently authorized for use in any U.S. states, territories, or jurisdictions, since Omicron is currently the dominant variant across the United States. If, in the future, patients in certain geographic regions are likely to be infected or exposed to a variant that is susceptible to REGEN-COV, then the limitation on use may be revised in these areas. Emergency or temporary pandemic use authorizations are also currently in place in numerous other countries outside the United States. 5 Table of Contents Net Product Sales of Regeneron-Discovered Products Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (In millions) U.S. ROW Total U.S. ROW Total U.S. ROW Total EYLEA (a) $ 5,792.3 $ 3,592.4 $ 9,384.7 $ 4,947.2 $ 2,961.5 $ 7,908.7 $ 4,644.2 $ 2,897.4 $ 7,541.6 Dupixent (b) $ 4,713.0 $ 1,485.3 $ 6,198.3 $ 3,226.2 $ 818.6 $ 4,044.8 $ 1,871.2 $ 444.4 $ 2,315.6 Libtayo (c) $ 306.3 $ 151.9 $ 458.2 $ 270.7 $ 77.5 $ 348.2 $ 175.7 $ 18.1 $ 193.8 Praluent (d) $ 170.0 $ 251.1 $ 421.1 $ 186.0 $ 172.8 $ 358.8 $ 126.0 $ 162.7 $ 288.7 REGEN-COV (e) $ 5,828.0 $ 1,745.9 $ 7,573.9 $ 185.7 $ 185.7 Kevzara (b) $ 161.9 $ 176.1 $ 338.0 $ 141.6 $ 128.3 $ 269.9 $ 129.0 $ 77.7 $ 206.7 Evkeeza (f) $ 18.4 $ 18.4 ARCALYST (g) $ 2.2 $ 2.2 $ 13.1 $ 13.1 $ 14.5 $ 14.5 ZALTRAP (b) $ 5.3 $ 86.4 $ 91.7 $ 5.8 $ 97.9 $ 103.7 $ 7.3 $ 101.1 $ 108.4 (a) Regeneron records net product sales of EYLEA in the United States. Bayer records net product sales of EYLEA outside the United States. The Company records its share of profits/losses in connection with sales of EYLEA outside the United States. (b) Sanofi records global net product sales of Dupixent, Kevzara, and ZALTRAP. The Company records its share of profits/losses in connection with global sales of Dupixent and Kevzara, and Sanofi pays the Company a percentage of net sales of ZALTRAP. (c) Regeneron records net product sales of Libtayo in the United States and Sanofi records net product sales of Libtayo outside the United States. The parties equally share profits/losses in connection with global sales of Libtayo. (d) Effective April 1, 2020, Regeneron records net product sales of Praluent in the United States. Also effective April 1, 2020, Sanofi records net product sales of Praluent outside the United States and pays the Company a royalty on such sales. Previously, Sanofi recorded global net product sales of Praluent and the Company recorded its share of profits/losses in connection with such sales. Refer to "Collaboration, License, and Other Agreements - Sanofi" section below for further details. (e) Regeneron records net product sales of REGEN-COV in connection with its agreements with the U.S. government. Roche records net product sales of the antibody cocktail outside the United States and the parties share gross profits from global sales based on a pre-specified formula. Refer to "Agreements Related to COVID-19" below for further details. (f) Regeneron records net product sales of Evkeeza in the United States. Pursuant to the January 2022 agreement, Ultragenyx will record net product sales of Evkeeza outside of the United States and will pay the Company a percentage of such sales. Refer to "Products" section above and "Collaboration, License, and Other Agreements - Ultragenyx" section below for further details. (g) Amounts reflected in the table above represent net product sales recorded by Regeneron. Effective April 1, 2021, Kiniksa records net product sales of ARCALYST in the United States and pays us a share of ARCALYST profits, if any. Refer to "Products" section above and "Collaboration, License, and Other Agreements - Kiniksa" section below for further details. Programs in Clinical Development Product candidates in clinical development, which are being developed by us and/or our collaborators, are summarized in the table below. There are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development (including any post-approval studies), uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, changes to drug pricing and reimbursement regulations and requirements, and changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate. The planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. We and our collaborators conduct clinical trials in multiple countries across the world. The COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions adopted around the globe to reduce the spread of the disease have impacted and may continue to impact our clinical development programs. We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on an individual trial basis and oversee trial management while also working to ensure patient safety and provide sufficient supply of product candidates for the studies. The ultimate impact (including possible delays in recruiting and/or obtaining data) resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic will depend, among other factors, on the extent of the pandemic in the areas with study sites and patient populations. It is possible that the COVID-19 pandemic may cause clinical disruptions beyond those we have described. In addition, there may be delays in the timing of regulatory review and other projected milestones discussed in the table below. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a description of these and other risks and uncertainties that may affect our clinical programs, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 6 Table of Contents Clinical Program Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2021 and 2022 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones (i) Ophthalmology EYLEA (aflibercept) (b) Retinopathy of prematurity ("ROP") (c) ROP (EU and Japan) Initial results from National Institutes of Health ("NIH")-sponsored Protocol W trial in non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy ("NPDR") were announced; data confirmed results from Company-sponsored PANORAMA trial and demonstrated reduced risk of developing vision-threatening complications with every-16-weeks dosing regimen Completed enrollment in Phase 3 study for ROP Submit supplemental BLA ("sBLA") for every-16-weeks dosing regimen in patients with NPDR (first half 2022) Report results from Phase 3 study in ROP (second half 2022) Aflibercept 8 mg (b) Wet AMD Wet AMD DME Completed enrollment in Phase 3 studies in wet AMD and DME Reported initial data from Phase 2 trial in wet AMD and that trial met its primary safety and efficacy endpoints Report detailed results from Phase 2 trial in wet AMD (first quarter 2022) Report results from Phase 3 studies in wet AMD and DME (second half 2022) Immunology Inflammation Dupixent (dupilumab) (a) Antibody to IL-4R alpha subunit Peanut allergy Grass allergy Atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) (Phase 2/3) (d) Eosinophilic esophagitis ("EoE") (c) in adults (d) , adolescents (d) , and pediatrics Atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) (U.S.) Asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) (EU) EoE in adults and adolescents (U.S.) Reported that Phase 3 trial for atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) met its primary and key secondary endpoints Initiated Phase 3 study in hand and foot atopic dermatitis Approved by FDA for asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) FDA decision on sBLA for atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (6 months 5 years of age) (mid-2022) Submit regulatory application in the EU for atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (6 months 5 years of age) (first half 2022) 7 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2021 and 2022 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones (i) Dupixent (dupilumab) (a) (continued) Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ("COPD") Bullous pemphigoid (Phase 2/3) (c) Chronic spontaneous urticaria ("CSU") Prurigo nodularis Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ("ABPA") Chronic inducible urticaria - cold Chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyposis Allergic fungal rhinosinusitis European Medicines Agency's ("EMA") Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use adopted a positive opinion for severe asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) New England Journal of Medicine ("NEJM") published positive results from Phase 3 trial in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) with moderate-to-severe asthma Reported that Phase 3 trial in CSU met its primary and key secondary endpoints Reported that two Phase 3 trials in prurigo nodularis met their respective primary and key secondary endpoints Reported that Part B of the Phase 3 trial in adults and adolescents with EoE met its co-primary endpoints Approved by FDA for 200 mg auto-injector Reported that Phase 2 trial of Dupixent in combination with Aimmune Therapeutics' AR101, an oral immunotherapy, in pediatric patients with peanut allergy met its primary and key secondary endpoint European Commission ("EC") decision on regulatory submission for asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) (first half 2022) Complete rolling sBLA submission for EoE in adults and adolescents (first quarter 2022) Report results from Phase 2 study in peanut allergy (second half 2022) Report results from additional Phase 3 CSU study (second half 2022) Submit sBLA for prurigo nodularis (first half 2022) Report results from Phase 3 study in chronic inducible urticaria - cold (second half 2022) 8 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2021 and 2022 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones (i) Kevzara (sarilumab) (a) Antibody to IL-6R Polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("pcJIA") Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("sJIA") Itepekimab (a) (REGN3500) Antibody to IL-33 COPD REGN1908-1909 (f) Multi-antibody therapy to Fel d 1 Cat allergy Reported that Phase 2 study in cat allergic patients with mild asthma met its primary and key secondary endpoints REGN5713-5714-5715 Multi-antibody therapy to Bet v 1 Birch allergy Initial Phase 3 study in birch allergic patients with allergic rhinoconjunctivitis met its primary endpoint REGN6490 Antibody to IL-36R Palmo-plantar pustulosis Solid Organ Oncology Libtayo (cemiplimab) (a)(g) Antibody to PD-1 Metastatic or locally advanced CSCC (d) Neoadjuvant CSCC Second-line cervical cancer, ISA101b combination First-line NSCLC, chemotherapy combination Second-line cervical cancer (e) Adjuvant CSCC Second-line cervical cancer (EU) First-line NSCLC, chemotherapy combination (U.S. and EU) Approved by FDA and EC for first-line NSCLC, monotherapy Approved by FDA and EC for BCC Reported Phase 3 chemotherapy combination trial in NSCLC met its overall survival primary endpoint; trial stopped early based on Independent Data Monitoring Committee ("IDMC") recommendation FDA decision on sBLA (target action date of September 19, 2022) and EC decision on regulatory submission for NSCLC, chemotherapy combination (second half 2022) EC decision on regulatory submission for cervical cancer (second half 2022) 9 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2021 and 2022 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones (i) Libtayo (cemiplimab) (a)(g) (continued) Reported positive results from Phase 3 trial in cervical cancer, demonstrating an overall survival benefit; trial stopped early based on IDMC recommendation Voluntarily withdrew sBLA for cervical cancer due to inability to align with FDA on certain post-marketing studies REGN4018 (f) Bispecific antibody targeting MUC16 and CD3 Platinum-resistant ovarian cancer Report results from Phase 1 study in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer (2022) REGN5668 Bispecific antibody targeting MUC16 and CD28 Ovarian cancer REGN5678 Bispecific antibody targeting PSMA and CD28 Prostate cancer Report results from Phase 1 study in prostate cancer (2022) REGN4336 Bispecific antibody targeting PSMA and CD3 Prostate cancer REGN5093 Bispecific antibody targeting two distinct MET epitopes MET-altered advanced NSCLC REGN5093-M114 Bispecific antibody-drug conjugate targeting two distinct MET epitopes MET overexpressing advanced cancer Fianlimab (f) (REGN3767) Antibody to LAG-3 Solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies Presented positive data from Phase 1 trial in combination with Libtayo in advanced melanoma at American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting Initiate Phase 3 study in first-line metastatic melanoma (first half 2022) REGN6569 Antibody to GITR Solid tumors 10 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (h) 2021 and 2022 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones (i) REGN7075 Bispecific antibody targeting EGFR and CD28 Solid tumors Hematology Odronextamab (REGN1979) Bispecific antibody targeting CD20 and CD3 Certain B-cell malignancies (c) B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma ("B-NHL") (potentially pivotal study) Resumed enrollment of patients with follicular lymphoma ("FL") and diffuse large B-cell