Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 55 Item 2. Properties 55 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 55 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 55 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 56 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 59 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 60 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 74 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 75 Item 9B. Other Information 75 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 76 Item 11. Executive Compensation 76 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 76 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 76 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 76 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 76 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 81 SIGNATURE PAGE 82 "ARCALYST ", "EYLEA ", "Libtayo " (in the United States), "Regeneron ", "Regeneron Genetics Center ", " Veloci-Bi ", " VelociGene ", " VelociMab ", " VelocImmune ", " VelociMouse ", " VelociSuite ", " VelociT ", and "ZALTRAP " are trademarks of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Trademarks and trade names of other companies appearing in this report are, to the knowledge of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the property of their respective owners. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (where applicable, together with its subsidiaries, "Regeneron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our"), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of products marketed by us and/or our collaborators (collectively, "Regeneron's Products") and our product candidates and research and clinical programs now underway or planned, including without limitation EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection, Dupixent (dupilumab) Injection, Libtayo (cemiplimab) Injection, Praluent (alirocumab) Injection, Kevzara (sarilumab) Injection, fasinumab, evinacumab, REGN-EB3, garetosmab, pozelimab, and REGN1979; the likelihood and timing of achieving any of our anticipated clinical development milestones referenced in this report; unforeseen safety issues resulting from the administration of Regeneron's Products and product candidates in patients, including serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of Regeneron's Products and product candidates in clinical trials; the likelihood and timing of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for Regeneron's Products, including without limitation EYLEA, Dupixent, Libtayo, Praluent, Kevzara, fasinumab, evinacumab, REGN-EB3, garetosmab, pozelimab, and REGN1979; the extent to which the results from the research and development programs conducted by us or our collaborators may be replicated in other studies and lead to therapeutic applications; ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight impacting Regeneron's Products (such as EYLEA, Dupixent, Libtayo, Praluent, and Kevzara), research and clinical programs, and business, including those relating to patient privacy; determinations by regulatory and administrative governmental authorities which may delay or restrict our ability to continue to develop or commercialize Regeneron's Products and product candidates; competing drugs and product candidates that may be superior to Regeneron's Products and product candidates; uncertainty of market acceptance and commercial success of Regeneron's Products and product candidates; our ability to manufacture and manage supply chains for multiple products and product candidates; the ability of our collaborators, suppliers, or other third parties (as applicable) to perform manufacturing, filling, finishing, packaging, labeling, distribution, and other steps related to Regeneron's Products and product candidates; coverage and reimbursement determinations by third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid; unanticipated expenses; the costs of developing, producing, and selling products; our ability to meet any of our financial projections or guidance, including without limitation capital expenditures, and changes to the assumptions underlying those projections or guidance; the potential for any license or collaboration agreement, including our agreements with Sanofi, Bayer, and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (or their respective affiliated companies, as applicable), to be cancelled or terminated without any further product success; and risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto (including without limitation the patent litigation and other related proceedings relating to Dupixent and Praluent described further in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report), other litigation and other proceedings and governmental investigations relating to the Company and/or its operations (including without limitation those described in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report), the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings and investigations, and the impact any of the foregoing may have on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. These statements are made based on management's current beliefs and judgment, and the reader is cautioned not to rely on any such statements. In evaluating such statements, shareholders and potential investors should specifically consider the various factors identified under Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. General Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious diseases. Our commercialized medicines and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, pain, infectious diseases, and rare diseases. Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to build on that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. Our objective is to continue to be an integrated, multi-product biotechnology company that provides patients and medical professionals with important options for preventing and treating human diseases. 2 Table of Contents Selected financial information is summarized as follows: Year Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 Revenues $ 7,863.4 $ 6,710.8 $ 5,872.2 Net income $ 2,115.8 $ 2,444.4 $ 1,198.5 Net income per share - diluted $ 18.46 $ 21.29 $ 10.34 In December 2019, we and Sanofi announced our intent to restructure the antibody collaboration for Kevzara and Praluent; completion of the proposed arrangement is expected to be finalized in the first quarter of 2020. Refer to "Collaboration Agreements - Collaborations with Sanofi - Antibody " section below for further details. 3 Table of Contents Marketed Products We currently have seven products that have received marketing approval, which are currently marketed by us, Bayer, and/or Sanofi: Product Disease Area (1) Territory U.S. EU Japan ROW (6) EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection (2) - Neovascular age-related macular degeneration ("wet AMD") a a a a - Diabetic macular edema ("DME") a a a a - Macular edema following retinal vein occlusion ("RVO"), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion ("CRVO") and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion ("BRVO") a a a a - Myopic choroidal neovascularization ("mCNV") a a a - Diabetic retinopathy a Dupixent (dupilumab) Injection (3) - Atopic dermatitis (in adults and adolescents) (7) a a a a - Asthma (in adults and adolescents) a a a a - Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis ("CRSwNP") a a a Libtayo (cemiplimab) Injection (3)(4) - Metastatic or locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma ("CSCC") a a a Praluent (alirocumab) Injection (3) - LDL-lowering in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("HeFH") or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ("ASCVD") (in adults) a a a a - Cardiovascular risk reduction in patients with established cardiovascular disease a a a Kevzara (sarilumab) Solution for Subcutaneous Injection (3) - Rheumatoid arthritis ("RA") (in adults) a a a a ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use - Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes ("CAPS"), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome ("FCAS") and Muckle-Wells Syndrome ("MWS") a ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion (5) - Metastatic colorectal cancer ("mCRC") a a a a (1) Refer to label information in each territory for specific indication (2) In collaboration with Bayer (outside the United States) (3) In collaboration with Sanofi (4) Marketed as Libtayo (cemiplimab-rwlc) Injection in the United States (5) Pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated ZALTRAP agreement, Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and Sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP (6) Rest of world. Checkmark in this column indicates that the product has received marketing approval in at least one country outside of the United States, European Union (EU), or Japan (7) Approval in Japan is for adults and adolescents 15 years of age and older 4 Table of Contents Net Product Sales of Regeneron-Discovered Products (1) Year Ended December 31, (In millions) 2019 2018 2017 U.S. ROW Total U.S. ROW Total U.S. ROW Total EYLEA (1) $ 4,644.2 $ 2,897.4 $ 7,541.6 $ 4,076.7 $ 2,668.9 $ 6,745.6 $ 3,701.9 $ 2,226.9 $ 5,928.8 Libtayo (1) 175.7 18.1 193.8 14.8 14.8 ARCALYST 14.5 14.5 14.7 14.7 16.6 16.6 Net product sales recorded by Regeneron $ 4,834.4 $ 4,106.2 $ 3,718.5 Net product sales recorded by Sanofi (1) : Dupixent $ 1,871.2 $ 444.4 $ 2,315.6 $ 776.3 $ 145.7 $ 922.0 $ 253.8 $ 2.7 $ 256.5 Praluent $ 126.0 $ 162.7 $ 288.7 $ 181.3 $ 125.5 $ 306.8 $ 131.4 $ 63.3 $ 194.7 Kevzara $ 129.0 $ 77.7 $ 206.7 $ 74.7 $ 21.9 $ 96.6 $ 11.6 $ 1.7 $ 13.3 ZALTRAP $ 7.3 $ 101.1 $ 108.4 $ 9.0 $ 98.8 $ 107.8 $ 10.7 $ 73.1 $ 83.8 (1) Bayer records net product sales of EYLEA outside the U.S., and Sanofi records net product sales of Libtayo outside the U.S. and global net product sales of Dupixent, Praluent, Kevzara, and ZALTRAP. Refer to "Collaboration Agreements" section below for further details. Programs in Clinical Development All 22 of our product candidates in clinical development, including the five U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") approved products which we are investigating in additional indications, were discovered in our research laboratories and are summarized in the table below. We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our VelociSuite technology platforms (refer to "Research and Development Technologies - VelociSuite " section below). We continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. There are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development (including any post-approval studies), uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, changes to drug pricing and reimbursement regulations and requirements, and changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate. The planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a description of these and other risks and uncertainties that may affect our clinical programs. 5 Table of Contents Clinical Program Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (i) 2019 and 2020 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Ophthalmology EYLEA - High-dose formulation in wet AMD - Retinopathy of prematurity ("ROP") (c) - Approved by FDA for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy - Initiate Phase 3 studies of a high-dose formulation of aflibercept in wet AMD and DME (mid-2020) - Pre-filled syringe approved by FDA Immunology Inflammatory Diseases Dupixent (dupilumab) (a) Antibody to IL-4R alpha subunit - Grass allergy - Atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) (Phase 2/3) (d) - Atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) (U.S. and EU) (d) - Approved by FDA and European Commission ("EC") for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) - FDA decision (target action date of May 26, 2020) on supplemental Biologics License Application ("sBLA") and EC decision (second half 2020) for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in pediatric patients (6 11 years of age) - Peanut allergy - Asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) - CRSwNP (Japan) - Eosinophilic esophagitis ("EOE") (c) - Auto-injector for 300 mg dose (U.S. and Japan) - Reported that Phase 3 study in pediatric patients (6 11 years of age) with severe atopic dermatitis met its primary and secondary endpoints - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ("COPD") - Report results from Phase 3 study for atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (6 months 5 years of age) (2022) - Bullous pemphigoid (Phase 2/3) (c) - Approved by EC for treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents - Chronic spontaneous urticaria - Report results from Phase 3 study for asthma in pediatric patients (6 11 years of age) (second half 2020) - Prurigo nodularis - Approved by FDA and EC for CRSwNP - EU approval for 200 mg and 300 mg auto-injector - Japan decision on application for CRSwNP (first half 2020) - FDA issued Complete Response Letter ("CRL") on sBLA for 200 mg auto-injector - FDA decision on application for 300 mg auto-injector (target action date of March 20, 2020) - Completed Phase 2a trial in grass allergy - Resubmit sBLA for 200 mg auto-injector (first half 2020) - Present results from Phase 2a trial in grass allergy at medical meeting (first half 2020) 6 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (i) 2019 and 2020 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones - Report results from Phase 2 study in peanut allergy (first half 2021) - Initiate Phase 3 study in pediatric patients with EOE (second half 2020) - Report results from Phase 2 portion of Phase 2/3 study in EOE (mid-2020) - Initiate Phase 3 studies in hand and foot atopic dermatitis and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ("ABPA") (first half 2020) Kevzara (sarilumab) (a) Antibody to IL-6R - Polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("pcJIA") - Polymyalgia rheumatica ("PMR") - Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("sJIA") - Giant cell arteritis ("GCA") REGN3500 (a) Antibody to IL-33. Studied as monotherapy and in combination with Dupixent. - Asthma - Reported that Phase 2 study in asthma met its primary and key secondary endpoints - Report results from Phase 2 study in atopic dermatitis (second half 2020) - COPD - Atopic dermatitis - Sanofi reported that Phase 2 study in COPD demonstrated reduced exacerbations in the overall study population, but results were not statistically significant - Initiate Phase 2b study in asthma (second half 2020) REGN1908-1909 (f) Multi-antibody therapy to Feld1 - Cat allergy - Report results from Phase 2 study in cat allergic asthmatics (first half 2020) REGN5713-5714-5715 Antibody to Betv1 - Birch allergy 7 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (i) 2019 and 2020 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Oncology Libtayo (cemiplimab) (a)(h) Antibody to PD-1 - Solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies - Basal cell carcinoma ("BCC") (potentially pivotal study) - First-line non-small cell lung cancer ("NSCLC") - Conditionally approved by EC for treatment of advanced CSCC - Report results from potentially pivotal Phase 2 study in BCC (mid-2020) - Metastatic or locally advanced CSCC (d) - Second-line cervical cancer (e) - Independent data monitoring committee conducted an interim analysis for overall survival in a Phase 3 NSCLC trial, and recommended trial continue as planned - Report results from Phase 3 study in cervical cancer (first half 2021) - Neoadjuvant CSCC - Adjuvant CSCC - Interim analysis of overall survival from Phase 3 NSCLC monotherapy study (2020) REGN1979 Bispecific antibody targeting CD20 and CD3 - Certain B-cell malignancies (c) - B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma ("B-NHL") (potentially pivotal study) - Reported updated results from Phase 1 trial in B-cell malignancies - Report updated results from initial study in certain B-cell malignancies (2020) - Continued to expand potentially pivotal Phase 2 program with different subtypes of NHL - Continue to expand potentially pivotal Phase 2 study (2020) REGN5458 (a) Bispecific antibody targeting BCMA and CD3 - Multiple myeloma - Reported positive preliminary results from Phase 1 trial in multiple myeloma - Report updated results from initial study in multiple myeloma (2020) REGN5459 (a) Bispecific antibody targeting BCMA and CD3 - Multiple myeloma REGN4018 (a) Bispecific antibody targeting MUC16 and CD3 - Platinum-resistant ovarian cancer REGN5678 Bispecific antibody targeting PSMA and CD28 - Prostate cancer REGN5093 Bispecific antibody targeting two distinct MET epitopes - MET-altered advanced NSCLC REGN3767 (f) Antibody to LAG-3 - Solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies 8 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (i) 2019 and 2020 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Cardiovascular/Metabolic Diseases Praluent (alirocumab) (a) Antibody to PCSK9 - Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("HoFH") (c) in adults and pediatrics - Approved by EC for a new indication to reduce cardiovascular risk in adults with established ASCVD - Report results from Phase 3 study in HoFH and submit sBLA (2020) - HeFH in pediatrics - Approved by FDA for a new indication to reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke and unstable angina requiring hospitalization in adults with established CV disease - Approved by FDA for treatment of adults with primary hyperlipidemia (including HeFH) to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ("LDL-C") Evinacumab (f) (REGN1500) Antibody to ANGPTL3 - Refractory hypercholesterolemia (both HeFH and non-FH) - HoFH (c)(d) - Reported positive top-line results from Phase 3 trial in HoFH - Submit BLA and Marketing Authorization Application ("MAA") for HoFH (2020) - Severe hypertriglyceridemia Pozelimab (f) (REGN3918) Antibody to C5 - Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ("PNH") (c) - Reported positive top-line results from Phase 2 trial in PNH - Initiate combination program with Alnylam's cemdisiran (second half 2020) - Initiate Phase 3 program in PNH (second half 2020) Garetosmab (f) (REGN2477) Antibody to Activin A - Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ("FOP") (c)(e) (potentially pivotal study) - Reported results from Phase 2 study in FOP - Discuss regulatory submission for FOP with regulatory authorities (first half 2020) REGN4461 (f) Agonist antibody to leptin receptor ("LEPR") - Generalized lipodystrophy (e) 9 Table of Contents Clinical Program (continued) Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Review (i) 2019 and 2020 Events to Date Select Upcoming Milestones Pain Fasinumab (b)(f) (REGN475) Antibody to NGF - Osteoarthritis pain of the knee or hip (e) - Report results from Phase 3 studies in osteoarthritis pain of the knee or hip (mid-2020) REGN5069 Antibody to GFR 3 - Osteoarthritis pain of the knee (e) - Report results from Phase 2 study in osteoarthritis pain of the knee (second half 2020) Infectious Diseases REGN-EB3 (f)(g) (REGN3470-3471-3479) Multi-antibody therapy to Ebola virus infection ("Ebola") - Ebola (U.S.) (c)(d)(j) - Investigational trial in the Democratic Republic of Congo was stopped early based on data showing that REGN-EB3 was superior to ZMapp in preventing death - Complete rolling BLA submission for Ebola (first half 2020) Note 1: For purposes of the table above, a program is classified in Phase 1, 2, or 3 clinical development after recruiting for the corresponding study or studies has commenced Note 2: We have discontinued further clinical development of REGN4659, an antibody to CTLA4, which was previously being studied in advanced NSCLC (a) In collaboration with Sanofi (b) In collaboration with Teva and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma (c) FDA granted orphan drug designation (d) FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation (e) FDA granted Fast Track designation (f) Sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. (g) We and the Biomedical Advanced Research Development Authority ("BARDA") of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") are parties to agreements whereby HHS provides certain funding to support research, development, and manufacturing of these antibodies. (h) Studied as monotherapy and in combination with other antibodies and treatments (i) Information in this column relates to U.S., EU, and Japan regulatory submissions only (j) Included as part of the Extension Phase of a trial coordinated by World Health Organization 10 Table of Contents Additional Information - Marketed Products Studied in Additional Indications and Product Candidates in Late-Stage Clinical Development EYLEA EYLEA is a soluble fusion protein that acts as a vascular endothelial growth factor ("VEGF") inhibitor, formulated as an injection for the eye. It is designed to block the growth of new blood vessels and decrease the ability of fluid to pass through blood vessels (vascular permeability) in the eye by blocking VEGF-A and PLGF, two growth factors involved in angiogenesis. Dupixent (dupilumab) Dupixent is a fully-human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the signaling pathway of IL-4 and IL-13. Data from Dupixent clinical trials have shown that IL-4 and IL-13 are key drivers of the type 2 inflammation that plays a major role in atopic dermatitis, asthma, and CRSwNP, as well as other immunological and inflammatory diseases. Kevzara (sarilumab) Kevzara is a fully-human monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to the IL-6 receptor and inhibits IL-6-mediated signaling. IL-6 is a signaling protein produced in increased quantities in patients with RA and has been associated with disease activity, joint destruction, and other systemic problems. Libtayo (cemiplimab) and REGN1979 Regeneron is developing a diverse and comprehensive oncology portfolio, including Libtayo, which is being studied as monotherapy and in combination with other anti-cancer agents in various indications. Libtayo is a fully-human monoclonal antibody targeting the immune checkpoint receptor PD-1. The PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint pathway has emerged as a major mechanism by which cancers evade immune destruction. Libtayo is also being studied by other companies in combination with their proprietary assets. REGN1979 is an investigational bispecific monoclonal antibody designed to bridge T-cells and tumor cells. It is designed to trigger tumor killing by binding to both a protein expressed on B-cell cancers (CD20) and a component of the T-cell receptor ("TCR") complex (CD3). At the tumor site, it activates T-cells by engaging their CD3 molecules and promotes T-cell mediated killing of the cancer cells. Praluent (alirocumab) Praluent is a fully-human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the binding of PCSK9 to the LDL receptor. Through inhibiting PCSK9, Praluent increases the number of available LDL receptors on the surface of liver cells to clear LDL, which lowers LDL cholesterol levels in the blood. Evinacumab Evinacumab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to and blocks ANGPTL3. ANGPTL3 plays a key role in regulating plasma lipid levels, including triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, and HDL cholesterol, through inhibition of lipase enzymes (lipoprotein lipase and endothelial lipase). Pozelimab Pozelimab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody designed to block complement factor C5 and prevent the destruction of red blood cells that cause the symptoms of PNH and other diseases mediated by abnormal complement pathway activity. PNH is an ultra-rare, chronic, life-threatening disease where genetic mutations cause hemolysis, resulting in a range of symptoms including fatigue, shortness of breath, and blood clots. Pozelimab binds with high affinity to wild-type and variant human C5 and blocks its activity. Garetosmab Garetosmab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody that binds and neutralizes Activin A, which is required for the development of additional bone outside the normal skeleton in patients with the ultra-rare genetic disorder, FOP. The abnormal bone formation in soft tissue outside of the normal skeleton, a process known as heterotopic ossification, leads to loss of mobility and premature death in FOP patients. Garetosmab reduces the formation of heterotopic bone lesions by neutralizing the Activin A protein. 11 Table of Contents Fasinumab Fasinumab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody that targets NGF, a protein that plays a central role in the regulation of pain signaling. NGF expression is elevated in many acute and chronic pain conditions and NGF blockade has demonstrated efficacy in clinical trials. Targeting NGF is a potential new way to manage pain without resorting to opioids. REGN-EB3 REGN-EB3 is an investigational cocktail of three fully-human monoclonal antibodies that each bind to the Ebola virus at different points, which may serve to increase efficacy, reduce the development of viral sequences that lead to resistance, and potentially enable utility in future outbreaks as viruses continue to evolve. REGN-EB3 is being developed, tested, and manufactured through contracts awarded in 2015 and 2017 by BARDA, under the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Other Programs Our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology/immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, infectious diseases, and diseases related to aging. Research and Development Technologies Many proteins that play an important role in biology and disease are secreted by cells or located on the cell surface. Moreover, cells communicate through secreted factors and surface molecules. Our scientists have developed two different technologies to make protein therapeutics that potently and specifically block, activate, or inhibit the action of specific cell surface or secreted molecules. The first technology fuses receptor components to the constant region of an antibody molecule to make a class of drugs we call "Traps". EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST are drugs generated using our Trap technology. VelociSuite is our second technology platform, which is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. VelociSuite VelociSuite consists of VelocImmune , VelociGene , VelociMouse , VelociMab , Veloci-Bi , VelociT , and other related technologies. The VelocImmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human antibodies. VelocImmune was generated by leveraging our VelociGene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. VelocImmune mice can be used efficiently to generate fully human antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. VelocImmune and our entire VelociSuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing the VelocImmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. Our VelociGene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-ou