Item 1. Business 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. [Reserved] 40 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 87 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 172 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 172 Item 9B. Other Information 172 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 172 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 173 Item 11. Executive Compensation 174 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 174 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 174 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 174 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 175 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 180 SIGNATURES 181 Table of Contents Glossary of Defined Terms Agencies - collectively, FNMA and GNMA. ACL - Allowance for credit losses. ALCO - Asset/Liability Management Committee. ALLL - Allowance for loan and lease losses. Allowance - Allowance for credit losses. AMLA - Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 AMERIBOR - American Interbank Offered Rate. AOCI - Accumulated other comprehensive income. ASC - Accounting Standards Codification. ARRC - Alternative Reference Rates Committee. Ascentium - Ascentium Capital, LLC., an equipment finance entity acquired April 1, 2020. ASU - Accounting Standards Update. ATM - Automated teller machine. Bank - Regions Bank. Basel III - Basel Committee's 2010 Regulatory Capital Framework (Third Accord). Basel III Rules - Final capital rules adopting the Basel III capital framework approved by U.S. federal regulators in 2013. Basel Committee - Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. BHC - Bank Holding Company. BHC Act - Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. BITS - Technology policy division of the Bank Policy Institute. Board - The Company s Board of Directors. BSBY - Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield index. Call Report - Regions Bank's FFIEC 031 filing. CAP - Customer Assistance Program. CARES Act - Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. CCAR - Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. CCB - Capital Conservation Buffer. CECL - Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ("Current Expected Credit Losses"). CEO - Chief Executive Officer. CET1 - Common Equity Tier 1. CFO - Chief Financial Officer. CFPB - Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. CHR - Compensation and Human Resources. Clearsight - Clearsight Advisors, Inc., a mergers and acquisitions firm acquired December 31, 2021. Company - Regions Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries. COSO - Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. COVID-19 - Coronavirus Disease 2019. CPR - Constant (or Conditional) prepayment rate. CRA - Community Reinvestment Act of 1977. DE I - Diversity, Equity Inclusion DIF - Deposit Insurance Fund. 3 Table of Contents Dodd-Frank Act - The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. DPD - Days past due. DUS - Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriting Servicing. E P - Extraction and production. EAD - Exposure-at-default. EEO-1 - Equal employment opportunity commission's standard form 100 report EGRRCPA - The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. EnerBank - EnerBank USA, a consumer lending institution acquired October 1, 2021. ESG - Environmental, Social and Governance. ETS - Emergency Temporary Standard EU - European Union FASB - Financial Accounting Standards Board. FCA - Financial Conduct Authority. FDIA - Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended. FDIC - The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Federal Reserve - The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. FFIEC - Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. FHA - Federal Housing Administration. FHC - Financial Holding Company. FHLB - Federal Home Loan Bank. FICO - The Financing Corporation, established by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987. FICO scores - Personal credit scores based on the model introduced by the Fair Isaac Corporation. FinCEN - the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. FINRA - Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Fintechs - Financial Technology Companies. FNMA - Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae. FOMC - Federal Open Market Committee. FRB - Federal Reserve Bank. FS-ISAC - Financial Services - Information Sharing Analysis Center. FTP - Funds Transfer Pricing. GAAP - Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. GDP - Gross domestic product. GNMA - Government National Mortgage Association. G-SIB - Globally Systematically Important Bank Holding Company. HPI - Housing price index. HUD - U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. HCM - Human Capital Management. IPO - Initial public offering. IRA - Individual Retirement Account. IRE - Investor real estate portfolio segment. IRS - Internal Revenue Service. ISM - Institute for Supply Management. 4 Table of Contents LCR - Liquidity coverage ratio. LGD - Loss given default. LIBOR - London InterBank Offered Rate. LLC - Limited Liability Company. LROC - Liquidity Risk Oversight Committee. LTIP - Long-term incentive plan. LTV - Loan to value. MBS - Mortgage-backed securities. M A - Mergers and acquisitions. MD A - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. MSAs - Metropolitan Statistical Areas. MSR - Mortgage servicing right. NAV - Net Asset Value. NM - Not meaningful. NSFR - Net stable funding ratio. NYSE - New York Stock Exchange. OAS - Option-adjusted spread. OCC - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. OCI - Other comprehensive income. OFAC - U.S. Treasury Department - Office of Foreign Assets Control. OIS - Overnight indexed swap. OLA - Orderly Liquidation Authority. PCD - Purchased credit deteriorated. PCE - Personal Consumption Expenditure. PD - Probability of default. PPP - Paycheck Protection Program. R S - Reasonable and supportable. Raymond James - Raymond James Financial, Inc. REIT - Real estate investment trust. Regions Securities - Regions Securities LLC. RETDR - Reasonable expectation of a troubled debt restructuring. RWAs - Risk-weighted assets. S P 500 - a stock market index that measures the stock performance of 500 large companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States. Sabal - Sabal Capital Partners, LLC, a diversified financial services firm acquired December 1, 2021. SBA - Small Business Administration. SBIC - Small Business Investment Company. SCB - Stress Capital Buffer. SEC - U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. SERP - Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. SOFR - Secured Overnight Financing Rate. TBA - To Be Announced. TDR - Troubled debt restructuring. 5 Table of Contents TRACE - Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine. TTC - Through-the-cycle. U.K. - United Kingdom. U.S. - United States. USA PATRIOT Act - Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001. U.S. Treasury - The United States Department of the Treasury. USD - United States dollar. UTB - Unrecognized tax benefits. VIE - Variable interest entity. Visa - The Visa, U.S.A. Inc. card association or its affiliates, collectively. wSTWF - Weighted short-term wholesale funding. 6 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary This Annual Report on Form 10-K, other periodic reports filed by Regions Financial Corporation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf to analysts, investors, the media and others, may include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words future, anticipates, assumes, intends, plans, seeks, believes, predicts, potential, objectives, estimates, expects, targets, projects, outlook, forecast, would, will, may, might, could, should, can, and similar terms and expressions often signify forward-looking statements . Forward-looking statements are subject to the risk that the actual effects may differ, possibly materially, from what is reflected in those forward-looking statements due to factors and future developments that are uncertain, unpredictable and in many cases beyond our control, including the scope and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic (including the impact of additional variants and resurgences), the effectiveness, availability and acceptance of any vaccines or therapies, and the direct and indirect impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our customers, third parties and us. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management s current expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, and because they also relate to the future they are likewise subject to inherent uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, the risks identified in