Item 1. Business 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 89 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 171 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 171 Item 9B. Other Information 171 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 172 Item 11. Executive Compensation 174 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 174 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 174 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 174 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 175 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 180 SIGNATURES 181 2 Table of Contents Glossary of Defined Terms Agencies - collectively, FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. Allowance- Allowance for credit losses. ACL- Allowance for credit losses. ALCO - Asset/Liability Management Committee. ALLL- Allowance for loan and lease losses. AOCI - Accumulated other comprehensive income. ASC - Accounting Standards Codification. ASU - Accounting Standards Update. ATM - Automated teller machine. Bank - Regions Bank. Basel I - Basel Committee's 1988 Regulatory Capital Framework (First Accord). Basel III - Basel Committee's 2010 Regulatory Capital Framework (Third Accord). Basel III Rules - Final capital rules adopting the Basel III capital framework approved by U.S. federal regulators in 2013. Basel IV - Basel Committee's revised Regulatory Capital Framework proposal released in December 2017. Basel Committee - Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. BHC - Bank Holding Company. BHC Act - Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. BITS - Technology arm of the Financial Services Roundtable. Board - The Company s Board of Directors. CAP - Customer Assistance Program. CCAR - Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. CCB - Capital Conservation Buffer. CECL - Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ("Current Expected Credit Losses"). CEO - Chief Executive Officer. CET1 - Common Equity Tier 1. CFO - Chief Financial Officer. CFPB - Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. CFTC - Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Company - Regions Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries. COSO - Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. CPI- Consumer price index. CPR - Constant (or Conditional) Prepayment Rate. CRA - Community Reinvestment Act of 1977. DIF - Deposit Insurance Fund. Dodd-Frank Act - The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. DPD - Days Past Due. DUS - Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriting Servicing. 3 Table of Contents EAD - Exposure at Default. EGRRCPA - The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. ERI - Eligible retained income. ESG - Environmental, Social and Governance. FASB - Financial Accounting Standards Board. FDIA - Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended. FDIC - The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Federal Reserve - The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. FFIEC - Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. FHA - Federal Housing Administration. FHC - Financial Holding Company. FHLB - Federal Home Loan Bank. FHLMC - Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac. FICO - The Financing Corporation, established by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987. FICO scores - Personal credit scores based on the model introduced by the Fair Isaac Corporation. FinCEN - the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. FINRA - Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. FNMA - Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae. FOMC - Federal Open Market Committee. FRB - Federal Reserve Bank. FS-ISAC - Financial Services - Information Sharing Analysis Center. FTP - Funds Transfer Pricing. GAAP - Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. GDP - Gross Domestic Product. GDPR - EU General Data Protection Regulation. GNMA - Government National Mortgage Association. G-SIB - Global Systematically Important Bank Holding Company. HPI- Housing Price Index. HUD - U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. IPO - Initial public offering. IRA - Individual Retirement Account. IRS - Internal Revenue Service. ISM - Institute for Supply Management. LCR - Liquidity coverage ratio. LGD - Loss given default. LIBOR - London InterBank Offered Rates. LLC - Limited Liability Company. LTIP - Long-term incentive plan. LTV - Loan to value. MD A - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 4 Table of Contents Morgan Keegan - Morgan Keegan Company, Inc. MSAs - Metropolitan Statistical Areas. MSR - Mortgage servicing right. MSRB - Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. NAV - Net Asset Value. NM - Not meaningful. NPR - Notice of Public Ruling. NSFR - Net stable funding ratio. NYSE - New York Stock Exchange. OAS - Option-Adjusted Spread. OCC - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. OCI - Other comprehensive income. OFAC - U.S. Treasury Department - Office of Foreign Assets Control. OIS - Overnight Indexed Swap. OLA - Orderly Liquidation Authority. OTTI - Other-than-temporary impairment. PCE - Personal Consumption Expenditure. PD - Probability of default. R S- Reasonable and supportable . Raymond James - Raymond James Financial, Inc. Regions Securities - Regions Securities LLC. SBIC - Small Business Investment Companies. SCB - Stress capital buffer. SEC - U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. SERP - Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. SLB - Stress leverage buffer. SOFR - Secured Overnight Funding Rate. Tax Reform - H.R.1, An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018. TBA - To Be Announced. TDR - Troubled debt restructuring. TRACE - Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine. TTC- Through-the-cycle. U.S. - United States. USA PATRIOT Act - Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001. U.S. Treasury - The United States Department of the Treasury. UTB - Unrecognized tax benefits. VIE - Variable interest entity. Visa - The Visa, U.S.A. Inc. card association or its affiliates, collectively. 5 Table of Contents Volcker Rule - Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations promulgated thereunder, as applicable. wSTWF - Weighted Short-Term Wholesale Funding. 6 Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, other periodic reports filed by Regions Financial Corporation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf to analysts, investors, the media and others, may include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The terms Regions, the Company, we, us and our as used herein mean collectively Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries when or where appropriate. The words future, anticipates, assumes, intends, plans, seeks, believes, predicts, potential, objectives, estimates, expects, targets, projects, outlook, forecast, would, will, may, might, could, should, can, and similar terms and expressions often signify forward-looking statements . Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management s current expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, and because they also relate to the future they are likewise subject to inherent uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, the risks identified in