Item 1. Business 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 42 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 43 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 87 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 88 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 165 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 165 Item 9B. Other Information 165 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 165 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 166 Item 11. Executive Compensation 166 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 166 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 166 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 166 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 167 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 172 SIGNATURES 173 Table of Contents Glossary of Defined Terms Agencies - collectively, FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA. ACL - Allowance for credit losses. ALCO - Asset/Liability Management Committee. Allowance - Allowance for credit losses. AMLA - Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020. AOCI - Accumulated other comprehensive income. ASU - Accounting Standards Update. ATM - Automated teller machine. Bank - Regions Bank. Basel III - Basel Committee's 2010 Regulatory Capital Framework (Third Accord). Basel III Endgame - New rules for capital requirements that include broad-based changes to the risk-weighting framework that were proposed by U.S. federal regulators in 2023. Basel III Rules - Final capital rules adopting the Basel III capital framework approved by U.S. federal regulators in 2013. Basel Committee - Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. BHC - Bank Holding Company. BHC Act - Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. BITS - Technology policy division of the Bank Policy Institute. Board - The Company s Board of Directors. BSBY - Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield index. BTFP - Bank Term Funding Program. Call Report - Regions Bank's FFIEC 031 filing. CAP - Customer Assistance Program. CCAR - Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. CCPA - California Privacy Rights Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020. CECL - Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ("Current Expected Credit Losses"). CEO - Chief Executive Officer. CET1 - Common Equity Tier 1. CFO - Chief Financial Officer. CFPB - Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. CFTC - Commodity Futures Trading Commission CHR - Compensation and Human Resources. Company - Regions Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries. COSO - Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. COVID-19 - Coronavirus Disease 2019. CPI- Consumer Price Index. CPR - Constant (or Conditional) prepayment rate. CRA - Community Reinvestment Act of 1977. DEI - Diversity, Equity Inclusion. DIF - Deposit Insurance Fund. Dodd-Frank Act - The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. DPD - Days past due. 3 Table of Contents DUS - Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriting Servicing. EAD - Exposure-at-default. EEO-1 - Equal employment opportunity commission's Standard Form 100 report. ERMC - Enterprise Risk Management Committee. ESG - Environmental, Social and Governance. FASB - Financial Accounting Standards Board. FCA - Financial Conduct Authority. FDIA - Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended. FDIC - The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Federal Reserve - The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. FFIEC - Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. FHA - Federal Housing Administration. FHC - Financial Holding Company. FHLB - Federal Home Loan Bank. FICO - The Financing Corporation, established by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987. FICO scores - Personal credit scores based on the model introduced by the Fair Isaac Corporation. FinCEN - the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. FINRA - Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Fintechs - Financial Technology Companies. FOMC - Federal Open Market Committee. FS-ISAC - Financial Services - Information Sharing Analysis Center. FTP - Funds Transfer Pricing. GAAP - Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. GDP - Gross domestic product. GLBA - Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. GSE - Government-Sponsored Enterprise. G-SIB - Globally Systemically Important Bank Holding Company. HPI - Housing price index. HUD - U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. HCM - Human Capital Management. IDI - Insured Depository Institution. IPO - Initial public offering. IRA - Individual Retirement Account. IRS - Internal Revenue Service. IS Program - Information Security Program. LCR - Liquidity coverage ratio. LGD - Loss given default. LIBOR - London InterBank Offered Rate. LLC - Limited Liability Company. LROC - Liquidity Risk Oversight Committee. LTIP - Long-term incentive plan. LTV - Loan to value. 4 Table of Contents MBS - Mortgage-backed securities. MD A - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. MSAs - Metropolitan Statistical Areas. MSR - Mortgage servicing right. NAV - Net Asset Value. NIST - National Institute of Standards and Technology. NSFR - Net stable funding ratio. NYSE - New York Stock Exchange. OAS - Option-adjusted spread. OCC - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. OCI - Other comprehensive income. OFAC - U.S. Treasury Department - Office of Foreign Assets Control. ORC - Operational Risk Committee. PCAOB - Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. PCD - Purchased credit deteriorated. PD - Probability of default. R S - Reasonable and supportable. REIT - Real estate investment trust. Regions Securities - Regions Securities LLC. RETDR - Reasonable expectation of a troubled debt restructuring. RWAs - Risk-weighted assets. S P 500 - a stock market index that measures the stock performance of 500 large companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States. SBA - Small Business Administration. SBIC - Small Business Investment Company. SCB - Stress Capital Buffer. SEC - U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. SERP - Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. SOFR - Secured Overnight Financing Rate. TAL - Total trading assets and liabilities. TBA - To Be Announced. TDR - Troubled debt restructuring. TOROC - Technology Operations Risk Oversight Committee. TPRM - Third-Party Risk Management. TRACE - Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine. TTC - Through-the-cycle. U.S. - United States. USA PATRIOT Act - Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001. U.S. Treasury - The United States Department of the Treasury. USD - United States dollar. UTB - Unrecognized tax benefits. VIE - Variable interest entity. 5 Table of Contents Visa - The Visa, U.S.A. Inc. card association or its affiliates, collectively. wSTWF - Weighted short-term wholesale funding. 6 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary This Annual Report on Form 10-K, other periodic reports filed by Regions Financial Corporation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf to analysts, investors, the media and others, may include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The terms Regions, the Company, we, us and our as used herein mean collectively Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries when or where appropriate.The words future, anticipates, assumes, intends, plans, seeks, believes, predicts, potential, objectives, estimates, expects, targets, projects, outlook, forecast, would, will, may, might, could, should, can, and similar terms and expressions often signify forward-looking statements . Forward-looking statements are subject to the risk that the actual effects may differ, possibly materially, from what is reflected in those forward-looking statements due to factors and future developments that are uncertain, unpredictable and in many cases beyond our control. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information, but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Forward-looking statements are based on management s current expectations as well as certain assumptions and estimates made by, and information available to, management at the time the statements are made. Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks, and because they also relate to the future they are likewise subject to inherent uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views, beliefs and projections expressed in such statements. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described below: Current and future economic and market conditions in the United States generally or in the communities we serve (in particular the Southeastern United States), including the effects of possible declines in property values, increases in interest rates and unemployment rates, inflation, financial market disruptions and potential reductions of economic growth, which may adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and conditions. Possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies of, and other activities undertaken by, governments, agencies, central banks and similar organizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and our financial results and conditions. Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets (such as our portfolio of investment securities) and obligations, as well as the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. Volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, which may lead to increased costs for businesses and consumers and potentially contribute to poor business and economic conditions generally. Possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers and the possible impairment of the collectability of loans and leases, including operating leases. Changes in the speed of loan prepayments, loan origination and sale volumes, charge-offs, credit loss provisions or actual credit losses where our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses. Possible acceleration of prepayments on mortgage-backed securities due to declining interest rates, and the related acceleration of premium amortization on those securities. Possible changes in consumer and business spending and saving habits and the related effect on our ability to increase assets and to attract deposits, which could adversely affect our net income. Loss of customer checking and savings account deposits as customers pursue other, higher-yield investments, or the need to price interest-bearing deposits higher due to competitive forces. Either of these activities could increase our funding costs. Possible downgrades in our credit ratings or outlook could, among other negative impacts, increase the costs of funding from capital markets. The loss of value of our investment portfolio could negatively impact market perceptions of us. Our ability to manage fluctuations in the value of assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposure so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support our businesses. The effects of social media on market perceptions of us and banks generally. Market replacement of LIBOR and the related effect on our LIBOR-based financial products and contracts, including, but not limited to, derivative products, debt obligations, deposits, investments, and loans. The effects of problems encountered by other financial institutions that adversely affect us or the banking industry generally could require us to change certain business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise negatively affect our businesses. 7 Table of Contents Volatility in the financial services industry (including failures or rumors of failures of other depository institutions), along with actions taken by governmental agencies to address such turmoil, could affect the ability of depository institutions, including us, to attract and retain depositors and to borrow or raise capital. Our ability to effectively compete with other traditional and non-traditional financial services companies, including fintechs, some of which possess greater financial resources than we do or are subject to different regulatory standards than we are. Our inability to develop and gain acceptance from current and prospective customers for new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customers needs and respond to emerging technological trends in a timely manner could have a negative impact on our revenue. Our inability to keep pace with technological changes, including those related to the offering of digital banking and financial services, could result in losing business to competitors. Our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans, including our ability to fully realize the financial and nonfinancial benefits relating to our strategic initiatives. The risks and uncertainties related to our acquisition or divestiture of businesses and risks related to such acquisitions, including that the expected synergies, cost savings and other financial or other benefits may not be realized within expected timeframes, or might be less than projected; and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. The success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers. Our ability to achieve our expense management initiatives. Changes in commodity market prices and conditions could adversely affect the cash flows of our borrowers operating in industries that are impacted by changes in commodity prices (including businesses indirectly impacted by commodities prices such as businesses that transport commodities or manufacture equipment used in the production of commodities), which could impair the ability of those borrowers to service any loans outstanding to them and/or reduce demand for loans in those industries. The effects of geopolitical instability, including wars, conflicts, civil unrest, and terrorist attacks and the potential impact, directly or indirectly, on our businesses. Fraud, theft or other misconduct conducted by external parties, including our customers and business partners, or by our employees. Any inaccurate or incomplete information provided to us by our customers or counterparties. Inability of our framework to manage risks associated with our businesses, such as credit risk and operational risk, including third-party vendors and other service providers, which inability could, among other things, result in a breach of operating or security systems as a result of a cyber-attack or similar act or failure to deliver our services effectively. Our ability to identify and address operational risks associated with the introduction of or changes to products, services, or delivery platforms. Dependence on key suppliers or vendors to obtain equipment and other supplies for our businesses on acceptable terms. The inability of our internal controls and procedures to prevent, detect or mitigate any material errors or fraudulent acts. Our ability to identify and address cyber-security risks such as data security breaches, malware, ransomware, denial of service attacks, hacking and identity theft, including account take-overs, a failure of which could disrupt our businesses and result in the disclosure of and/or misuse or misappropriation of confidential or proprietary information, disruption or damage to our systems, increased costs, losses, or adverse effects to our reputation. The effects of the failure of any component of our business infrastructure provided by a third party could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of and/or misuse of confidential information or proprietary information, increase our costs, negatively affect our reputation, and cause losses. The effects of any developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation or regulatory proceedings brought against us or any of our subsidiaries. The costs, including possibly incurring fines, penalties, or other negative effects (including reputational harm) of any adverse judicial, administrative, or arbitral rulings or proceedings, regulatory enforcement actions or other legal actions to which we or any of our subsidiaries are a party, and which may adversely affect our results. Changes in laws and regulations affecting our businesses, including legislation and regulations relating to bank products and services, such as changes to debit card interchange fees, special FDIC assessments, any new long-term debt requirements, as well as changes in the enforcement and interpretation of such laws and regulations by applicable governmental and self-regulatory agencies, including as a result of the changes in U.S. presidential administration, control of the U.S. Congress, and 8 Table of Contents changes in personnel at the bank regulatory agencies, which could require us to change certain business practices, increase compliance risk, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise negatively affect our businesses. Our capital actions, including dividend payments, common stock repurchases, or redemptions of preferred stock, must not cause us to fall below minimum capital ratio requirements, with applicable buffers taken into account, and must comply with other requirements and restrictions under law or imposed by our regulators, which may impact our ability to return capital to shareholders. Our ability to comply with stress testing and capital planning requirements (as part of the CCAR process or otherwise) may continue to require a significant investment of our managerial resources due to the importance of such tests and requirements. Our ability to comply with applicable capital and liquidity requirements (including, among other things, the Basel III capital standards), including our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms, and if we fail to meet requirements, our financial condition and market perceptions of us could be negatively impacted. Our ability to recruit and retain talented and experienced personnel to assist in the development, management and operation of our products and services may be affected by changes in laws and regulations in effect from time to time. Our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries, in particular Regions Bank, could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock and inability to complete stock repurchases in the time frame and/or on the terms anticipated. The effects of anti-takeover laws and exclusive forum provision in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. The effect of new tax legislation and/or interpretation of existing tax law, which may impact our earnings, capital ratios and our ability to return capital to shareholders. Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the FASB or other regulatory agencies could materially affect our financial statements and how we report those results, and expectations and preliminary analyses relating to how such changes will affect our financial results could prove incorrect. Any impairment of our goodwill or other intangibles, any repricing of assets or any adjustment of valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets due to changes in tax law, adverse changes in the economic environment declining operations of the reporting unit or other factors. The effects of man-made and natural disasters, including fires, floods, droughts, tornadoes, hurricanes and environmental damage (especially in the Southeastern United States), which may negatively affect our operations and/or our loan portfolios and increase our cost of conducting business. The severity and frequency of future earthquakes, fires, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, floods and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The impact of pandemics on our businesses, operations and financial results and conditions. The duration and severity of any pandemic as well as government actions or other restrictions in connection with such events could disrupt the global economy, adversely affect our capital and liquidity position, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and increase our allowance for credit losses, impair collateral values and result in lost revenue or additional expenses. The effects of any damage to our reputation resulting from developments related to any of the items identified above. Other risks identified from time to time in reports that we file with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all of them. We assume no obligation and do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements that are made from time to time, either as a result of future developments, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 9 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Regions Financial Corporation is a FHC headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama operating in the South, Midwest and Texas. In addition, Regions operates several offices delivering specialty capabilities in New York, Washington D.C., Chicago and other locations nationwide. Regions provides financial solutions for a wide range of clients including retail and mortgage banking services, commercial banking services and wealth and investment services. Further, Regions and its subsidiaries deliver other financial services capabilities described below. At December 31, 2023, Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately $152.2 billion, total consolidated deposits of approximately $127.8 billion and total consolidated shareholders equity of approximately $17.4 billion. The terms Regions, the Company, we, us and our as used herein mean collectively Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries when or where appropriate. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (800) 734-4667. Banking Operations Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama state-chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2023, Regions operated 2,023 ATMs and 1,271 total branch outlets primarily across the South, Midwest and Texas. The following table reflects the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations. Branches Florida 272 Tennessee 198 Alabama 186 Georgia 117 Mississippi 99 Texas 90 Louisiana 82 Arkansas 57 Missouri 49 Illinois 41 Indiana 40 South Carolina 18 Kentucky 9 North Carolina 7 Iowa 5 Utah 1 Total 1,271 Other Financial Services Operations In addition to its banking operations, Regions and its subsidiaries deliver specialty capabilities including merger and acquisition advisory services, capital markets solutions, home improvement lending, investment services, equipment financing for commercial clients and small business customers, low income housing tax credit corporate fund syndication and asset management, financing to CRA-qualified customers, investments and insurance products, broker-dealer services to commercial clients, and others. Supervision and Regulation We are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs and their subsidiaries. This framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC s DIF and the banking system as a whole, and is not intended for the protection of shareholders or other investors. Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by United States Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to Regions and its subsidiaries. Regions cannot predict future changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, including 10 Table of Contents any changes resulting from changes in the U.S. presidential administration. Yet, such changes may have a material impact on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes in law and any new regulations promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which Regions is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including the failure of U.S. depository institutions in the first half of 2023, technological factors, market changes, climate change concerns, as well as increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal banking regulators. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Regions expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Regions is subject. These descriptions do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Overview As a BHC, Regions is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to regulation, examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. Regions has elected to be treated as an FHC which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC. The BHC Act provides for umbrella regulation of FHCs by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act also requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a BHC, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary. Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. Its operations are generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department. Regions Bank is also affected by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it implements monetary policy. As a Federal Reserve System member bank, Regions Bank is required to hold stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in an amount equal to six percent of its capital stock and surplus. Member banks with total assets in excess of $10 billion, including Regions Bank, receive a floating rate dividend tied to 10-year U.S. Treasuries, with the maximum dividend rate capped at six percent. Regions Bank and its affiliates are also subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the CFPB with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. Regions and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA and the NYSE. Regions Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, that govern its activities, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Examinations by Regions regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity, interest rate risk management and various other factors. Following those examinations, Regions and Regions Bank are assigned supervisory ratings. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings, which are considered confidential supervisory information, cou