Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments 32 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine safety disclosures 34 PART II. Item 5. Market for registrant s common equity, related shareholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 34 Item 6. Selected financial data 35 Item 7. Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data 79 Item 9. Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 150 Item 9A. Controls and procedures 150 Item 9B. Other information 153 PART III. Item 10. Directors, executive officers and corporate governance 153 Item 11. Executive compensation 153 Item 12. Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related shareholder matters 153 Item 13. Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 153 Item 14. Principal accountant fees and services 153 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and financial statement schedules 153 Signatures 156 2 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Raymond James Financial, Inc. ( RJF, the firm or the Company ) is a leading diversified financial services company providing private client group, capital markets, asset management, banking and other services to individuals, corporations and municipalities. The firm, together with its subsidiaries, is engaged in various financial services activities, including providing investment management services to retail and institutional clients, the underwriting, distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and debt securities, and the sale of mutual funds and other investment products. The firm also provides corporate and retail banking services, and trust services. We operate predominately in the United States ( U.S. ) and, to a lesser extent, in Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), and other parts of Europe. Established in 1962 and public since 1983, RJF is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE ) under the symbol RJF. As a bank holding company and financial holding company, RJF is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Fed ). Among the keys to our historical and continued success, our emphasis on putting the client first is at the core of our corporate values. We also believe in maintaining a conservative, long-term focus in our decision making. We believe that this disciplined decision-making approach translates to a strong, stable financial services firm for clients, associates, and shareholders. REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We currently operate through five segments. Our business segments are Private Client Group ( PCG ), Capital Markets, Asset Management and Raymond James Bank ( RJ Bank ). Our Other segment includes our private equity investments, interest income on certain corporate cash balances, and certain corporate overhead costs of RJF that are not allocated to our business segments, including the interest costs on our public debt. The following graph depicts the relative net revenue contribution of each of our business segments for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. * The preceding chart does not include intersegment eliminations or the Other segment. Private Client Group We provide financial planning, investment advisory and securities transaction services through a branch office network. Financial advisors have multiple affiliation options, which we refer to as AdvisorChoice. Our two primary affiliation options for financial advisors are the employee option and the independent contractor option. We recruit experienced financial advisors from a wide variety of competitors. As a part of their agreement to join us, we may make loans to financial advisors and certain key revenue producers primarily for recruiting, transitional cost assistance, and retention purposes. 3 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Total client assets under administration ( AUA ) in our PCG segment as of September 30, 2020 were $883.3 billion, of which $475.3 billion related to fee-based accounts ( fee-based AUA ). We had 8,239 financial advisors affiliated with us as of September 30, 2020. Employee financial advisors Employee financial advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local management and administrative staff. They provide services predominately to retail clients. Compensation for these financial advisors primarily includes commission payments and participation in the firm s benefit plans. Independent contractor financial advisors Our financial advisors who are independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, receive a higher payout percentage on the revenues they generate than employee financial advisors. Our independent contractor financial advisor option is designed to help our advisors build their businesses with as much or as little of our support as they determine they need. With specific approval, and on a limited basis, they are permitted to conduct certain other approved business activities, such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services, and accounting and tax services. Products and services Irrespective of the affiliation choice, our financial advisors offer a broad range of investment products and services, including both third-party and proprietary products, and a variety of financial planning services. Revenues from this segment are typically driven by AUA and are generally either asset-based or transactional in nature. The proportion of our brokerage revenues originating from the employee versus independent contractor affiliation models is relatively balanced. PCG segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 are presented in the following graph. * Included in Brokerage revenues on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. We provide the following products and services through this segment: Investment services for which we charge sales commissions or asset-based fees based on established schedules. Portfolio management services for which we charge either a fee computed as a percentage of the assets in the client s account or a flat periodic fee. Insurance and annuity products. Professionally managed mutual funds. 4 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Support to third-party product partners, including sales and marketing support, product availability and distribution, and accounting and administrative services. Administrative services to banks to which we sweep a portion of our clients cash deposits as part of the Raymond James Bank Deposit Program ( RJBDP ), our multi-bank sweep program. Fees received from third-party banks for these services are variable in nature and fluctuate based on client cash balances in the program, as well as the level of short-term interest rates relative to interest paid to clients by the third-party banks on balances in the RJBDP. PCG also earns servicing fees from RJ Bank, which are based on the number of accounts that are swept to RJ Bank. These fees are eliminated in consolidation. Margin loans to clients that are collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed based on current interest rates. Custodial services, trading, research and other support and services (including access to clients account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) to the independent registered investment advisors who are affiliated with us. Securities borrowing and lending activities with other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties. The net revenues of this business generally consist of the interest spreads generated on these activities. Diversification strategies and alternative investment products to qualified clients of our affiliated financial advisors. Capital Markets Our Capital Markets segment conducts institutional sales, securities trading, equity research, investment banking and the syndication and management of investments that qualify for tax credits (referred to as our tax credit funds business). Capital Markets segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 are presented in the following graph. * Included in Investment banking on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. We provide the following products and services through this segment. Equity products and services We earn brokerage revenues on the sale of equity products to institutional clients. Client activity is influenced by a combination of general market activity and our Capital Markets group s ability to identify attractive investment opportunities for our institutional clients. Revenues on equity transactions are generally based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution. 5 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We provide various investment banking services including public and private equity financing for corporate clients and merger acquisition and advisory services. Our investment banking activities include a comprehensive range of strategic and financial advisory services tailored to our clients business life cycles and backed by our strategic industry focus. Our global research department supports our institutional and retail sales efforts and publishes research on a wide variety of companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. and Canadian companies in specific industries, including consumer, energy, financial services, healthcare, industrial, mining and natural resources, real estate, technology and communications, and transportation. Research reports are made available to both institutional and retail clients. Fixed income products and services We earn revenues from institutional clients who purchase and sell both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds, and whole loans. We carry inventories of taxable and tax-exempt securities to facilitate client transactions. Our investment banking services include public finance and debt underwriting activities where we serve as a financial advisor, placement agent or underwriter to various issuers, including private and public corporate entities, state and local government agencies (and their political subdivisions), housing agencies, and non-profit entities including healthcare and higher education institutions. We enter into interest rate derivatives to facilitate client transactions or to actively manage risk exposures that arise from our client activity, including a portion of our trading inventory. In addition, we conduct a matched book derivatives business where we may enter into interest rate derivative transactions with clients. In this matched book business, for every derivative transaction we enter into with a client, we enter into an offsetting derivative transaction with a credit support provider that is a third-party financial institution. Tax credit funds We act as the general partner or managing member in partnerships and limited liability companies that invest in real estate project entities which qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and/or provide a mechanism for banks and other institutions to meet their Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) obligations throughout the U.S. We earn fees for the origination and sale of these investment products as well as for the oversight and management of the investments over the statutory tax credit compliance period. Asset Management Our Asset Management segment earns asset management and related administrative fees for providing asset management, portfolio management and related administrative services to retail and institutional clients. This segment oversees a portion of our fee-based AUA for our PCG clients through our Asset Management Services division ( AMS ) and through Raymond James Trust, N.A. ( RJ Trust ). This segment also provides asset management services through Carillon Tower Advisers and affiliates (collectively, Carillon Tower Advisers ) for certain retail accounts managed on behalf of third-party institutions, institutional accounts and proprietary mutual funds that we manage. Management fees in this segment are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of our fee-billable financial assets under management ( AUM ) in both AMS (including the portion of fee-based AUA in PCG that is overseen by AMS) and Carillon Tower Advisers, where investment decisions are made by in-house or third-party portfolio managers or investment committees. The fee rates applied are dependent upon various factors, including the distinctive services provided and the level of assets within each client relationship. The fee rates applied in Carillon Tower Advisers may also vary based on the account objective (i.e., equity, fixed income, or balanced). Our AUM are impacted by market fluctuations and net inflows or outflows of assets, including transfers between fee-based accounts and traditional transaction-based accounts within our PCG segment. Fees are generally collected quarterly and are based on balances as of the beginning of the quarter (particularly in AMS) or the end of the quarter, or based on average daily balances throughout the quarter. Our Asset Management segment also earns administrative fees on certain fee-based assets within PCG that are not overseen by our Asset Management segment, but for which the segment provides administrative support (e.g., record-keeping). 6 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our AUM and our Carillon Tower Advisers AUM by objective as of September 30, 2020 are presented in the following graphs. RJ Bank RJ Bank is a national bank that provides various types of loans, including corporate loans (commercial and industrial ( C I ), commercial real estate ( CRE ) and CRE construction), tax-exempt loans, residential loans, securities-based loans ( SBL ) and other loans. RJ Bank is active in corporate loan syndications and participations. RJ Bank also provides Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC )-insured deposit accounts, including to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. RJ Bank generates net interest income principally through the interest income earned on loans and an investment portfolio of securities, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings. As of September 30, 2020, corporate and tax-exempt loans represented approximately 57% of RJ Bank s loan portfolio, of which 87% were U.S. and Canadian syndicated loans. Residential mortgage loans are originated or purchased and held for investment or sold in the secondary market. RJ Bank s investment portfolio is primarily comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ) and agency collateralized mortgage obligations ( CMOs ) and is classified as available-for-sale. RJ Bank s liabilities primarily consist of deposits that are cash balances swept from the investment accounts of PCG clients. The following graph details the composition of RJ Bank s total assets as of September 30, 2020. 7 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Other Our Other segment includes our private equity investments, interest income on certain corporate cash balances, and certain corporate overhead costs of RJF, including the interest costs on our public debt. The Other segment also includes reduction in workforce expenses associated with certain position eliminations that occurred in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2020 in response to the economic environment. Our private equity portfolio includes various direct investments, as well as investments in third-party private equity funds and various legacy private equity funds which we sponsor. HUMAN CAPITAL Our associates (which include our employee financial advisors and all of our other employees, and independent contractor financial advisors) are vital to our success in the financial services industry. As a human-capital intensive business, the long-term success of our firm depends on our people. Our goal is to ensure that we have the right talent, in the right place, at the right time. We do that through our commitment to attracting, developing and retaining our associates. We strive to attract individuals who are people-focused and share our values. We have competitive programs dedicated to selecting new talent and enhancing the skills of our associates. In our recruiting efforts, we strive to have a diverse group of candidates to consider for our roles. To that end, we have strong relationships with a variety of industry associations that represent diverse professionals and with diversity groups at the colleges and universities where we recruit. Among other opportunities, we offer selected students and recent graduates summer internships and pipeline programs across many areas of the firm, which may lead to permanent roles. Individuals who want to become financial advisors in our PCG segment can gain relevant branch experience through our Wealth Management Associate Program or move to our Advisor Mastery Program and begin building their client base. We have designed a compensation structure, including an array of benefit plans and programs, that we believe is attractive to our current and prospective associates. We also offer our associates the opportunity to participate in a variety of professional and leadership development programs. Our extensive program catalog includes a variety of industry, product, technical, professional, business development, leadership and regulatory topics. These programs are available online and in-person. In addition, we have a variety of mentoring programs in place to support the development of our associates and expand their networks within the firm. We have a department dedicated to providing practice education and management resources to our PCG financial advisors. We also offer these advisors the opportunity to participate in conferences and workshops, and we offer resources and coaching at all levels to help them grow their businesses. These include separate national conferences for our employee and independent contractor financial advisor channels, each of which is attended by thousands of our advisors and their families each year. We seek to retain our associates by using their feedback to create and continually enhance programs that support their needs. We use firmwide pulse surveys to solicit feedback from our associates. We have a formal annual goal setting and performance review processes for our employees. We have a values-based culture, an important factor in retaining our associates, which is memorialized in a culture blueprint that is communicated to all associates. Our training to share and communicate our culture to all associates plays an important part in this process. We are committed to having a diverse workforce, and an inclusive work environment is a natural extension of our culture. We have recently renewed our commitment to ensuring that all our associates feel welcomed, valued, respected and heard so that they can fully contribute their unique talents for the benefit of clients, their careers, our firm and our communities. We also invest substantial resources in the community-supporting organizations that are dedicated to improving the lives of diverse individuals. Our firmwide diversity and inclusion advisory council stewards the firm s efforts and provides guidance on priorities. This council is composed of associate representatives from all areas of our business and locations where we operate. We also have firmwide and business unit-specific diversity and inclusion networks, which host various events and conferences to educate and support our diversity and inclusion efforts. We monitor and evaluate various turnover and attrition metrics throughout our management teams. Our annualized voluntary turnover is relatively low, as is the case for turnover of our top performers, a record which we attribute to our strong values-based culture, commitment to career development, and attractive compensation and benefit programs. Importantly, our financial advisor attrition rate is even lower. As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately 14,800 employees (including 3,404 employee financial advisors) and 4,835 affiliated independent contractor financial advisors. 8 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES OPERATIONS AND INFORMATION PROCESSING We have operations personnel at various locations who are responsible for processing securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, the receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, and compliance with regulatory and legal requirements for most of our securities brokerage operations. The information technology department develops and supports the integrated solutions that provide a customized platform for our businesses. These include a platform for financial advisors designed to allow them to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their businesses; systems that support institutional and retail sales and trading activity from initiation to settlement and custody; and thorough security protocols to protect firm and client information. In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect our own information and that of our clients. We apply numerous safeguards to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of both client and firm information. Our business continuity program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance that we will continue to operate in the event of disruptions at our critical facilities or other business disruptions. We have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have devoted significant resources to maintaining those plans. Our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and tested to allow for continuous operations in the event of weather-related or other interruptions at our corporate headquarters in Florida, one of our operations processing or data center sites (located in Florida, Colorado, Tennessee or Michigan), and our branch and office locations throughout the U.S., Canada and Europe. In response to the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic, we activated certain aspects of our business continuity program during 2020 endeavoring to protect our associates and our clients. As a result, nearly all of our associates transitioned to working remotely, while still maintaining our high standards of client service. The firm continues to monitor the pandemic and has developed a phased approach to reopening our offices based on regional indicators of infection positivity rates, and has and will continue to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. COMPETITION The financial services industry is intensely competitive. We compete with many other financial services firms, including a number of larger securities firms, most of which are affiliated with major financial services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other organizations. We also compete with companies that offer web-based financial services and discount brokerage services to individual clients, usually with lower levels of service, and, more recently, financial technology ( fintech ) firms. We compete principally on the basis of the quality of our associates, services, product selection, performance records, location and reputation in local markets. Our ability to compete effectively is substantially dependent on our continuing ability to develop or attract, retain and motivate qualified financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. REGULATION The following discussion summarizes the principal elements of the regulatory and supervisory framework applicable to us as a participant in the financial services industry and, in particular, the banking and securities sectors. The framework includes extensive regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the applicable laws of the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which we do business. This framework is intended to protect our clients, the integrity of the financial markets, our depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and is not intended to protect our creditors or shareholders. These rules and regulations limit our ability to engage in certain activities, as well as our ability to fund RJF from our regulated subsidiaries, which include RJ Bank, RJ Trust and our broker-dealer subsidiaries. To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions that are referenced. A change in applicable statutes or regulations or in regulatory or supervisory policy may have a material effect on our business. We continue to experience a period of notable changes in financial regulation and supervision. We continue to monitor the likelihood of changes in taxation and regulations due to changes in the political environment. Based upon the outcome of the most recent U.S. federal elections, the likelihood of changes in both corporate and individual taxation, as well as regulations, has likely increased. These changes could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations 9 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES and cash flows in the future; however, we cannot predict the exact changes or quantify their potential impacts. (see Item 1A - Risk Factors of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the potential future impact on our operations). Banking supervision and regulation RJF is a bank holding company ( BHC ) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHC Act ), that has made an election to be a financial holding company ( FHC ) and is subject to regulation, oversight and consolidated supervision, including periodic examination, by the Fed. Under the system of functional regulation established under the BHC Act, the primary regulators of our U.S. non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Fed exercising a supervisory role. Such functionally regulated subsidiaries include our broker-dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), such as Raymond James Associates, Inc. ( RJ A ) and Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. ( RJFS ), investment advisors registered with the SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities, and our depository institution and trust company chartered and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ). RJ Bank is a national bank and insured depository institution regulated, supervised and examined by the OCC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ). Our trust company non-depository subsidiary, RJ Trust, is also regulated, supervised and examined by the OCC. The Fed and the FDIC also regulate and may examine RJ Bank and, with respect to the Fed, RJ Trust. Collectively, the rules and regulations of the Fed, the OCC, the FDIC and the CFPB cover all aspects of the banking business, including, for example, lending practices, the receipt of deposits, capital structure, transactions with affiliates, conduct and qualifications of personnel and, as discussed further in the following sections, capital requirements. This regulatory, supervisory and oversight framework is subject to significant changes that can affect the operating costs and permissible businesses of RJF, RJ Bank, RJ Trust and all of our other subsidiaries. As a part of their supervisory functions, the Fed, the OCC, the FDIC, and the CFPB also have the power to bring enforcement actions for violations of law and, in the case of the Fed, the OCC and the FDIC, for unsafe or unsound practices. Basel III and U.S. capital rules Both RJF and RJ Bank are subject to minimum capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards. The OCC, the Fed and the FDIC published final U.S. rules implementing the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank Act ) and other capital provisions, and updated the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums (the U.S. Basel III Rules ). The U.S. Basel III Rules: (i) increased the quantity and quality of regulatory capital; (ii) established a capital conservation buffer; and (iii) made changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. The capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow, including during favorable market conditions, and to return capital to shareholders, or require us to raise additional capital. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be adversely affected. See Item 1A - Risk Factors of this Form 10-K for more information. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger discretionary, and in certain cases, mandatory actions by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the financial results of RJF and RJ Bank. Under capital adequacy guidelines, RJF and RJ Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The capital amounts and classification for RJF and RJ Bank are also subject to the qualitative judgments of U.S. regulators based on components of capi