Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments 35 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine safety disclosures 36 PART II. Item 5. Market for registrant s common equity, related shareholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 36 Item 6. Reserved 37 Item 7. Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data 79 Item 9. Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 164 Item 9A. Controls and procedures 164 Item 9B. Other information 168 Item 9C. Disclosure regarding foreign jurisdictions that prevent inspections 168 PART III. Item 10. Directors, executive officers and corporate governance 168 Item 11. Executive compensation 168 Item 12. Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related shareholder matters 168 Item 13. Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 168 Item 14. Principal accountant fees and services 168 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and financial statement schedules 168 Item 16. Form 10-K summary 170 Signatures 171 2 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Raymond James Financial, Inc. ( RJF or the firm ) is a leading diversified financial services company providing private client group, capital markets, asset management, banking and other services to individuals, corporations and municipalities. The firm, together with its subsidiaries, is engaged in various financial services activities, including providing investment management services to retail and institutional clients, merger acquisition and advisory services, the underwriting, distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and debt securities, and the sale of mutual funds and other investment products. The firm also provides corporate and retail banking services, and trust services. The firm operates predominantly in the United States ( U.S. ) and, to a lesser extent, in Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), and other parts of Europe. As used herein, the terms our, we, or us refer to RJF and/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Established in 1962 and public since 1983, RJF is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE ) under the symbol RJF. As a bank holding company ( BHC ) and financial holding company ( FHC ), RJF is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ( the Fed ). Among the keys to our historical and continued success, our emphasis on putting the client first is at the core of our corporate values. We also believe in maintaining a conservative, long-term focus in our decision making. We believe that this disciplined decision-making approach translates to a strong, stable financial services firm for clients, associates, and shareholders. REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We currently operate through the following five segments: Private Client Group ( PCG ); Capital Markets; Asset Management; Bank; and Other. The following graph depicts the relative net revenue contribution of each of our business segments for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. * The preceding chart does not include intersegment eliminations or the Other segment. 3 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Private Client Group We provide financial planning, investment advisory and securities transaction services to clients through financial advisors. Total client assets under administration ( AUA ) in our PCG segment as of September 30, 2022 were $1.04 trillion, of which $586.0 billion related to fee-based accounts ( fee-based AUA ). We had 8,681 employee and independent contractor financial advisors affiliated with us as of September 30, 2022. Affiliation We offer multiple affiliation options, which we refer to as AdvisorChoice. Financial advisors primarily affiliate with us directly as either employees or independent contractors, or as employees of the third-party Registered Investment Advisors ( RIAs ) and broker-dealers to which we provide services through our RIA and Custody Services ( RCS ) division. Employee financial advisors Employee financial advisors work in a traditional branch supported by local management and administrative staff. They provide services predominantly to retail clients. Compensation for these financial advisors primarily includes a payout on revenues they generate and such advisors also participate in the firm s employee benefit plans. Independent contractor financial advisors Our financial advisors who are independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, receive a higher payout percentage on the revenues they generate than employee financial advisors. Our independent contractor financial advisor options are designed to help our advisors build their businesses with as much or as little of our support as they determine they need. Independent contractor financial advisors may affiliate with us directly or through an affiliated bank or credit union in our Financial Institutions Division. With specific approval, and on a limited basis, they are permitted to conduct certain other approved business activities, such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services, and accounting and tax services. RIA and Custody Services Through our domestic RCS division, we offer third-party RIAs and broker-dealers a range of products and services including custodial services, trade execution, research and other support and services (including access to clients account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) for which we receive fees, which may be either transactional or based on AUA. Firms affiliated with us through RCS retain the fees they charge to their clients and are responsible for all of their direct costs. Financial advisors associated with firms in RCS are not included in our financial advisor counts, although their client assets are included in our AUA. AUA associated with firms in our RCS division totaled $108.5 billion as of September 30, 2022. Products and services We offer a broad range of third-party and proprietary investment products and services to meet our clients various investment and financial needs. Revenues from this segment are typically driven by AUA and are generally either asset-based or transactional in nature. 4 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES PCG segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 are presented in the following graph. Net Revenues $7.71 billion * Included in Brokerage revenues on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. We provide the following products and services through this segment: Investment services for which we charge sales commissions or asset-based fees based on established schedules. Portfolio management services for which we charge either a fee computed as a percentage of the assets in the client s account or a flat periodic fee. Insurance and annuity products. Mutual funds. Support to third-party mutual fund and annuity companies, including sales and marketing support, distribution, and accounting and administrative services. Administrative services to banks to which we sweep a portion of our clients cash deposits as part of the Raymond James Bank Deposit Program ( RJBDP ), our multi-bank sweep program. Fees received from third-party banks for these services are variable in nature and fluctuate based on client cash balances in the program, as well as the level of short-term interest rates relative to interest paid to clients by the third-party banks on balances in the RJBDP. PCG also earns fees from our Bank segment, which are based on the greater of a base servicing fee or net yield equivalent to the average yield that the firm would otherwise receive from third-party banks in the RJBDP. These fees are eliminated in consolidation. Margin loans to clients that are collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed based on current interest rates. Securities borrowing and lending activities with other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties. The net revenues of this business generally consist of the interest spreads generated on these activities. Diversification strategies and alternative investment products to qualified clients of our affiliated financial advisors. Custodial services, trade execution, research and other support and services to third-party RIAs and broker-dealers. 5 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Capital Markets Our Capital Markets segment conducts investment banking, institutional sales, securities trading, equity research, and the syndication and management of investments in low-income housing funds and funds of a similar nature, the majority of which qualify for tax credits (referred to as our affordable housing investments business). Capital Markets segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 are presented in the following graph. Net Revenues $1.81 billion * Included in Investment banking on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. We provide the following products and services through this segment. Investment banking Merger acquisition and advisory - We provide a comprehensive range o f strategic and financial advisory assignments, including with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, across a number of industries throughout the U.S., Canada, and Europe. Equity underwriting - We provide public and private equity financing services, including the underwriting and placement of common and preferred stock and other equity securities, to corporate clients throughout the U.S., Canada, and Europe across a number of industries. Debt underwriting - Our services include public finance and debt underwriting activities where we serve as a placement agent or underwriter to various issuers, including private and public corporate entities, state and local government agencies (and their political subdivisions), and non-profit entities including healthcare and higher education institutions. 6 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Brokerage Fixed income - We earn revenues from institutional clients who purchase and sell both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds, and whole loans, as well as from our market-making activities in fixed income debt securities. We carry inventories of debt securities to facilitate such transactions. We also enter into interest rate derivatives to facilitate client transactions or to actively manage risk exposures that arise from our client activity, including a portion of our trading inventory. In addition, we conduct a matched book derivatives business where we may enter into interest rate derivative transactions with clients. In this matched book business, for every derivative transaction we enter into with a client, we enter into an offsetting derivative transaction with a credit support provider that is a third-party financial institution. Equity - We earn brokerage revenues on the sale of equity products to institutional clients. Client activity is influenced by a combination of general market activity and our ability to identify attractive investment opportunities for our institutional clients. Revenues on equity transactions are generally based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution. Our global research department supports our institutional and retail sales efforts and publishes research on a wide variety of companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. and Canadian companies across a multitude of industries. Research reports are made available to both institutional and retail clients. Affordable housing investments business We act as the general partner or managing member in partnerships and limited liability companies that invest in real estate entities, the majority of which qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and/or provide a mechanism for banks and other institutions to meet their Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) obligations throughout the U.S. We earn fees for the origination and sale of these investment products as well as for the oversight and management of the investments, including over the statutory tax credit compliance period when applicable. Asset Management Our Asset Management segment earns asset management and related administrative fees for providing asset management, portfolio management and related administrative services to retail and institutional clients. This segment oversees a portion of our fee-based AUA for our PCG clients through our Asset Management Services division ( AMS ) and through Raymond James Trust, N.A. ( RJ Trust ). This segment also provides asset management services through our Raymond James Investment Management division ( Raymond James Investment Management, formerly referred to as Carillon Tower Advisers), for certain retail accounts managed on behalf of third-party institutions, institutional accounts, and proprietary mutual funds that we manage, generally using active portfolio management strategies. Management fees in this segment are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of our fee-billable financial assets under management ( AUM ) in both AMS, which includes the portion of fee-based AUA in PCG that is overseen by AMS, and Raymond James Investment Management, where investment decisions are made by in-house or third-party portfolio managers or investment committees. The fee rates applied are dependent upon various factors, including the distinct services provided and the level of assets within each client relationship. The fee rates applied in Raymond James Investment Management may also vary based on the account objective (i.e., equity, fixed income, or balanced). Our AUM are impacted by market fluctuations and net inflows or outflows of assets, including transfers between fee-based accounts and transaction-based accounts within our PCG segment. Fees are generally collected quarterly and are based on balances as of the beginning of the quarter (particularly in AMS) or the end of the quarter, or based on average daily balances throughout the quarter. Our Asset Management segment also earns administrative fees on certain fee-based assets within PCG that are not overseen by our Asset Management segment, but for which the segment provides administrative support (e.g., record-keeping). 7 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our AUM and our Raymond James Investment Management AUM by objective as of September 30, 2022 are presented in the following graphs. Bank Our Bank segment reflects the results of our banking operations, including the results of Raymond James Bank, a Florida-chartered state bank and Fed member bank, and TriState Capital Bank, a Pennsylvania-chartered state bank, which was acquired on June 1, 2022 in our acquisition of TriState Capital Holdings, Inc. ( TriState Capital ). We provide various types of loans, including securities-based loans ( SBL ), corporate loans (commercial and industrial ( C I ), commercial real estate ( CRE ) and real estate investment trust ( REIT ) loans), residential mortgage loans, and tax-exempt loans. Our Bank segment is active in corporate loan syndications and participations and lending directly to clients. We also provide Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC )-insured deposit accounts, including to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, and other deposit and liquidity management products and services. The Bank segment generates net interest income principally through the interest income earned on loans and an investment portfolio of available-for-sale securities, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings. As of September 30, 2022, corporate and tax-exempt loans represented approximately 37% of the Bank segment s total assets, and 73% of such loans were U.S. and Canadian syndicated loans. Residential mortgage loans are originated or purchased and held for investment or sold in the secondary market. The Bank segment s investment portfolio is primarily comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ) and agency collateralized mortgage obligations ( CMOs ) and is classified as available-for-sale. The Bank segment s liabilities primarily consist of cash deposits, including those at Raymond James Bank that are primarily swept from the investment accounts of PCG clients through the RJBDP, as well as those at TriState Capital Bank, which are primarily money market and interest-bearing checking accounts. The Bank segment s liabilities also include borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ). 8 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The following graph details the composition of our Bank segment s total assets as of September 30, 2022. Bank Segment Total Assets $56.74 billion Other Our Other segment includes our private equity investments, which predominantly consist of investments in third-party funds, interest income on certain corporate cash balances, certain acquisition-related expenses, primarily comprised of professional fees, and certain corporate overhead costs of RJF, including the interest costs on our public debt and any losses on extinguishment of such debt. HUMAN CAPITAL Our associates (which include our employee financial advisors and all of our other employees) and our independent contractor financial advisors (which we call our independent advisors ) are vital to our success in the financial services industry. As a human capital-intensive business, our ability to attract, develop, and retain exceptional and diverse associates and independent advisors is critical, not only in the current competitive labor market, but also to our long-term success. It is important to us to maintain a strong commitment to diversity and inclusion. To compete effectively, we must offer attractive compensation and health and wellness programs and workplace flexibility, as well as provide formal and informal opportunities for associates and advisors to develop their capabilities and reach their full potential. We also endeavor to foster and maintain our unique and long-standing values-based culture. As of September 30, 2022, we had approximately 17,000 associates (including 3,638 employee financial advisors) and 5,043 independent advisors. The growth in the number of associates compared to the prior year was due in part to our acquisitions completed during fiscal 2022. Our associates are spread across four countries in North America and Europe. However, the vast majority of our associates are located in the U.S. Of our global associates, 44% self-identify as women, and among our U.S.-based associates, 19% self-identify as ethnically diverse. Culture We strive to attract individuals who are people-focused and share our values. Our values are memorialized in a document we refer to as our culture blueprint that is communicated to all associates. Our culture is people-focused and rooted in the values established at the firm s foundation. Our pledge to clients, to our advisors, and to all our other associates is that: we put clients first, we act with integrity, we think long term, and we value independence. 9 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES One way in which we measure the health of our culture is through firmwide short and targeted surveys in which we routinely ask our associates about their experiences at the firm. Feedback provided through these surveys is also used to create and continually enhance programs that support our associates needs. Diversity, equity, and inclusion We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce, and an inclusive work environment is a natural extension of our culture. We are committed to ensuring that all our associates feel welcomed, valued, respected, and heard, so that they can fully contribute their unique talents for the benefit of their careers, our clients, our firm, and our communities. Our diversity strategy is centered on three pillars: the workplace, the workforce, and the community. In our recruiting efforts, we seek to identify a diverse group of candidates for each role we seek to fill. To that end, we have built strong relationships with a variety of industry associations that represent diverse professionals, as well as with diversity groups at the colleges and universities where we recruit. We have firmwide and business unit-specific diversity and inclusion networks, which are open to all professionals at the firm and are designed to promote and advance inclusion, understanding, and belonging. These networks also host various events and conferences to educate and provide avenues for all associates and independent advisors to contribute to an inclusive work environment, and offer mentorship opportunities to our associates. In order to continue to promote and advance inclusion, we have recently launched or expanded certain programs, such as: the Pride Financial Advisor Network, which provides support and resources for LGBTQ+ advisors through educational programs, interactive networking and business development opportunities; the Encore Inclusion Network, which provides support and opportunities for the growing mature workforce; and the Veteran Financial Advisors Network, which is dedicated to supporting armed services veterans in the development of their careers as financial advisors. We also invest in community-supporting organizations that are dedicated to improving the lives of diverse individuals. Our firmwide diversity, equity, and inclusion advisory council stewards the firm s efforts and provides guidance on priorities. This council is composed of associate representatives from all areas of our business and across geographic locations. In all of our diversity efforts, we strive to create opportunities for allies of diverse communities to participate, contribute, and grow. We believe that to truly achieve all of the benefits of having a diverse and inclusive workforce, all associates and advisors need to be engaged in these discussions. Recruitment, talent development, and retention We seek to build a workforce that provides outstanding client service and helps clients achieve their financial goals. We have competitive programs dedicated to selecting new talent and enhancing the skills of our associates. Among other opportunities, we offer internships to selected college students, professionals returning to the workforce, and veterans, which may lead to permanent roles, and we offer pipeline programs which accelerate the progression from entry level positions for recent graduates across many areas of the firm. We are also committed to supporting associates in reaching their professional goals. We conduct a formal annual goal setting and performance review process for each employee, which includes touch points throughout the year. We also offer associates the opportunity to participate in a variety of professional development programs. Our extensive program catalog includes courses designed to expand our associates industry, product, technical, professional, business development, and regulatory knowledge. The firm also provides leadership development programs that prepare our leaders for challenges they will face in new roles or with expanded responsibilities. To provide associates equal opportunity to compete for new positions, we require that all roles, with the exception of certain revenue-generating positions and certain senior-level roles, be posted on our internal online career platform. We conduct ongoing and robust succession planning for roles that are within two levels of our Executive Committee, and we strive to ensure we have a diverse pool of candidates for such roles. We discuss the results with executive leadership and the Board of Directors several times per year. An important driver of our success is the continuous recruitment and retention of financial advisors. Our ability to attract high quality advisors is based on our values-based culture, our commitment to service, and the unique ways in which we provide services to our financial advisors. Individuals who want to become financial advisors can gain relevant branch experience through our Wealth Management Associate Program or move to our Advisor Mastery Program and begin building their client base. We have a department dedicated to providing practice education and management resources to our financial advisors. We also offer these advisors the opportunity to participate in conferences and workshops, and we offer resources and coaching at all levels to help them grow their businesses. These include separate national conferences for our employee and independent contractor financial advisor channels, each of which is attended by thousands of advisors each year. 10 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We also monitor and evaluate various turnover and attrition metrics. Our overarching commitment to the attraction, development, and retention of our associates results in a relatively low annualized voluntary turnover rate. Importantly, our financial advisor regrettable attrition rate for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, was approximately 1%. Compensation We have designed a compensation structure, including an array of benefit plans and programs, that is intended to be attractive to current and prospective associates, while also reinforcing our core values and mitigating excessive risk taking. Our competitive pay packages include base salary, incentive bonus, and equity compensation programs. Additionally, the firm makes annual contributions to support the retirement goals of each associate through our employee stock ownership plan and our profit sharing plan, in addition to a matching contribution program for the 401(k) retirement savings plan. We also offer associates the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan that enables them to acquire our common stock at a discount, further increasing their ability to participate in the growth and success of the firm. As an additional retention tool, we may grant equity awards in connection with initial employment or under various retention programs for individuals who are responsible for contributing to our management, growth, and/or profitability. For certain employees who meet compensation, production, or other criteria, we also offer various non-qualified deferred compensation plans that provide a return to the participant, as well as a retention tool to the firm. We strive to ensure that our programs are designed to promote equitable rewards for all associates. We have enhanced our compensation practices with the goal of achieving pay equity at all levels of the organization for female and ethnically diverse associates. Every year, we conduct pay equity studies in the U.S., U.K., and Canada and make adjustments in situations if there is a pay equity gap. The physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our associates is a high priority of the firm. To that end, programs including healthcare insurance, health and flexible savings accounts, paid time off, family leave, flexible work schedules, tuition assistance, counseling services, as well as on-site services at our corporate offices in St. Petersburg, Florida and Memphis, Tennessee, which include health clinics and a fitness center. Additionally, following our return to office from the COVID-19 pandemic, we have offered more workplace flexibility to our associates as we continue to evaluate our long-term workplace strategy. OPERATIONS AND INFORMATION PROCESSING We have operations personnel at various locations who are responsible for processing securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, the receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, and compliance with regulatory and legal requirements for most of our securities brokerage operations. The information technology department develops and supports the integrated solutions that provide a customized platform for our businesses. These include a platform for financial advisors designed to allow them to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their businesses; systems that support institutional and retail sales and trading activity from initiation to settlement and custody; and thorough security protocols to protect firm and client information. In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect our own information and that of our clients. We apply numerous safeguards to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of both client and firm information. Our business continuity program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance that we will continue to operate in the event of disruptions at our critical facilities or other business disruptions. We have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have devoted significant resources to maintaining those plans. Our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and tested to allow for continuous operations in the event of weather-related or other interruptions at our corporate headquarters in Florida, one of our operations processing or data center sites (located in Florida, Colorado, Tennessee or Michigan), and our branch and office locations throughout the U.S., Canada and Europe. After successfully implementing business continuity protocols at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the following period of working remotely, we implement