Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 40 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 40 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 Item 6. Reserved 42 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures A bout Market Risk 76 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 76 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 76 Item 9B. Other Information 77 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 77 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 77 Item 11. Executive Compensation 77 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 78 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 78 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 78 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 79 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 82 Signatures 83 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Various statements in this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, in future filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), in our press releases, and in oral statements made from time to time by us or on our behalf constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding our future operating results and sources of liquidity (especially in light of the COVID-19 pandemic), the implementation and impact of our strategic plans, initiatives and capital expenses, our plans regarding our quarterly cash dividend and Class A common stock repurchase programs, and our ability to meet environmental, social, and governance goals. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "outlook," "estimate," "expect," "project," "believe," "envision," "goal," "target," "can," "will," and similar words or phrases and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance, or achievements expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties, and other factors include, among others: the loss of key personnel, including Mr. Ralph Lauren, or other changes in our executive and senior management team or to our operating structure, including those resulting from the recent reduction to our global workforce in connection with our long-term growth strategy, and our ability to effectively transfer knowledge and maintain adequate controls and procedures during periods of transition; the impact to our business resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, including periods of reduced operating hours and capacity limits and/or temporary closure of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities, as well as those of our customers, suppliers, and vendors, and potential changes to consumer behavior, spending levels, and/or shopping preferences, such as willingness to congregate in shopping centers or other populated locations; the impact of economic, political, and other conditions on us, our customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, including potential business disruptions related to the war between Russia and Ukraine, civil and political unrest, and diplomatic tensions between the U.S. and other countries; the potential impact to our business resulting from supply chain disruptions, including those caused by capacity constraints, closed factories and/or labor shortages (stemming from pandemic diseases, labor disputes, strikes, or otherwise), scarcity of raw materials, and port congestion, which could result in inventory shortages and lost sales; the potential impact to our business resulting from inflationary pressures, including increases in the costs of raw materials, transportation, wages, healthcare, and other benefit-related costs; our ability to recruit and retain employees to operate our retail stores, distribution centers, and various corporate functions; the impact to our business resulting from changes in consumers' ability, willingness, or preferences to purchase discretionary items and luxury retail products, which tends to decline during recessionary periods, and our ability to accurately forecast consumer demand, the failure of which could result in either a build-up or shortage of inventory; our ability to successfully implement our long-term growth strategy; our ability to continue to expand and grow our business internationally and the impact of related changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix as a result, as well as our ability to accelerate growth in certain product categories; our ability to open new retail stores and concession shops, as well as enhance and expand our digital footprint and capabilities, all in an effort to expand our direct-to-consumer presence; our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner, develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and execute marketing and advertising programs that appeal to consumers; our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and the increasing pressure on our margins in a highly promotional retail environment; our ability to competitively price our products and create an acceptable value proposition for consumers; our ability to continue to maintain our brand image and reputation and protect our trademarks; 1 our ability to achieve our goals regarding environmental, social, and governance practices, including those related to climate change and our human capital; our ability and the ability of our third-party service providers to secure our respective facilities and systems from, among other things, cybersecurity breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, ransomware, or similar Internet or email events; our efforts to successfully enhance, upgrade, and/or transition our global information technology systems and digital commerce platforms; the potential impact to our business if any of our distribution centers were to become inoperable or inaccessible; the potential impact on our operations and on our suppliers and customers resulting from man-made or natural disasters, including pandemic diseases such as COVID-19, severe weather, geological events, and other catastrophic events; our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and cost reductions from our restructuring plans, as well as the impact to our business resulting from restructuring-related charges, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term; the impact to our business resulting from potential costs and obligations related to the early or temporary closure of our stores or termination of our long-term, non-cancellable leases; our ability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity to provide for our cash needs, including our debt obligations, tax obligations, capital expenditures, and potential payment of dividends and repurchases of our Class A common stock, as well as the ability of our customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders to access sources of liquidity to provide for their own cash needs; the potential impact to our business resulting from the financial difficulties of certain of our large wholesale customers, which may result in consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, and other ownership changes in the retail industry, as well as other changes in the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors; our ability to access capital markets and maintain compliance with covenants associated with our existing debt instruments; a variety of legal, regulatory, tax, political, and economic risks, including risks related to the importation and exportation of products which our operations are currently subject to, or may become subject to as a result of potential changes in legislation, and other risks associated with our international operations, such as compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or violations of other anti-bribery and corruption laws prohibiting improper payments, and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including tax laws, trade and labor restrictions, and related laws that may reduce the flexibility of our business; the potential impact to our business resulting from the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges or barriers to trade, including those resulting from trade developments between the U.S. and China, and any related impact to global stock markets, as well as our ability to implement mitigating sourcing strategies; changes in our tax obligations and effective tax rate due to a variety of factors, including potential changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws and regulations, accounting rules, or the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction in future periods that are not currently known or anticipated; our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations from both a transactional and translational perspective; the impact to our business of events of unrest and instability that are currently taking place in certain parts of the world, as well as from any terrorist action, retaliation, and the threat of further action or retaliation; the potential impact to the trading prices of our securities if our operating results, Class A common stock share repurchase activity, and/or cash dividend payments differ from investors' expectations; our ability to maintain our credit profile and ratings within the financial community; our intention to introduce new products or brands, or enter into or renew alliances; changes in the business of, and our relationships with, major wholesale customers and licensing partners; and our ability to make strategic acquisitions and successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our existing operations. 2 These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and judgments and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are unforeseeable and beyond our control. A detailed discussion of significant risk factors that have the potential to cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations is described in Part I of this Form 10-K under the heading of "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. WEBSITE ACCESS TO COMPANY REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Our investor website is http://investor.ralphlauren.com. We were incorporated in June 1997 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge at our investor website under the caption "SEC Filings" promptly after we electronically file such materials with or furnish such materials to the SEC. All such filings are also available on the SEC's website at https://www.sec.gov. Information relating to corporate governance at Ralph Lauren Corporation, including our Corporate Governance Policies, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for all directors, officers, and employees, our Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officers and Senior Financial Officers, and information concerning our directors, Committees of the Board of Directors, including Committee charters, and transactions involving Ralph Lauren Corporation securities by directors and executive officers, are available at our website under the captions "Corporate Governance" and "SEC Filings." Paper copies of these filings and corporate governance documents are available to stockholders without charge by written request to Investor Relations, Ralph Lauren Corporation, 650 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022. In this Form 10-K, references to "Ralph Lauren," "ourselves," "we," "our," "us," and the "Company" refer to Ralph Lauren Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Due to the collaborative and ongoing nature of our relationships with our licensees, such licensees are sometimes referred to in this Form 10-K as "licensing alliances." Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday immediately before or after March 31. All references to "Fiscal 2023" represent the 52-week fiscal year ending April 1, 2023. All references to "Fiscal 2022" represent the 53-week fiscal year ended April 2, 2022. All references to "Fiscal 2021" represent the 52-week fiscal year ended March 27, 2021. All references to "Fiscal 2020" represent the 52-week fiscal year ended March 28, 2020. PART I Item 1. Business. General Founded in 1967 by Mr. Ralph Lauren, we are a global leader in the design, marketing, and distribution of premium lifestyle products, including apparel, footwear, accessories, home furnishings, fragrances, and hospitality. For more than 50 years, Ralph Lauren has sought to inspire the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive image have been developed across a wide range of products, brands, distribution channels, and international markets. We believe that our global reach, breadth of lifestyle product offerings, and multi-channel distribution are unique among luxury and apparel companies. We diversify our business by geography (North America, Europe, and Asia, among other regions) and channel of distribution (retail, wholesale, and licensing). This allows us to maintain a dynamic balance as our operating results do not depend solely on the performance of any single geographic area or channel of distribution. We sell directly to consumers through our integrated retail channel, which includes our retail stores, concession-based shop-within-shops, and digital commerce operations around the world. Our wholesale sales are made principally to major department stores, specialty stores, and third-party digital partners around the world, as well as to certain third-party-owned stores to which we have licensed the right to operate in defined geographic territories using our trademarks. In addition, we license to third parties for specified periods the right to access our various trademarks in connection with the licensees' manufacture and sale of designated products, such as certain apparel, eyewear, fragrances, and home furnishings. We organize our business into the following three reportable segments: North America, Europe, and Asia. In addition to these reportable segments, we also have other non-reportable segments. See " Our Segments " for further discussion of our segment reporting structure. Our global reach is extensive, as we sell directly to customers throughout the world via our 504 retail stores and 684 concession-based shop-within-shops, as well as through our own digital commerce sites and those of various third-party digital partners. Merchandise is also available through our wholesale distribution channels at approximately 9,000 doors worldwide, 3 the majority in specialty stores, as well as through the digital commerce sites of many of our wholesale customers. In addition to our directly-operated stores and shops, our international licensing partners operate 148 stores and shops. We have been controlled by the Lauren family since the founding of our Company. As of April 2, 2022, Mr. R. Lauren, or entities controlled by the Lauren family, held approximately 85% of the voting power of the Company's outstanding common stock. Objectives and Opportunities Our purpose is to inspire the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style. We believe that our size and the global scope of our operations provide us with design, sourcing, and distribution synergies across our business. Our core strengths include a portfolio of global premium lifestyle brands, a well-diversified global multi-channel distribution network, an investment philosophy supported by a strong balance sheet, and an experienced management team. Despite the various risks and uncertainties associated with the current global economic environment, as discussed further in Item 7 " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Global Economic Conditions and Industry Trends, " we believe our core strengths will allow us to execute our long-term growth strategy. An overview of our long-term growth strategy is presented below: 4 Global Citizenship and Sustainability Global citizenship and sustainability at Ralph Lauren is rooted in the heritage of our brand and our purpose to inspire the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style. We believe that delivering the next 50 years for Ralph Lauren means rethinking our impact on the environment and society and utilizing creativity, the power of design, and innovative technologies to drive meaningful change. We call our citizenship and sustainability plan "Design the Change," and through this strategy, we re creating a more sustainable future in three key areas: 1. Create Timeless Style Responsible Design We commit to embedding sustainability, inclusivity, intention, and celebration into the products and services we design. Circularity We are committed to a comprehensive circular strategy, whereby we will inform our product development and support more circular systems in our industry by designing out waste and pollution, keeping products and materials in use, and regenerating natural systems. Sustainable Materials We commit to using more materials in a way that results in positive social and environmental outcomes, protects biodiversity, advances animal welfare, and continuously improves traceability of our raw materials. Sustainable Spaces We are committed to designing and building Ralph Lauren stores with materials that minimize environmental impact and maximize occupant health. Chemical Management We commit to monitor and reduce hazardous chemical use and discharge and we are working to eliminate all hazardous chemicals from our product manufacturing. 2. Protect the Environment Carbon and Energy We are committed to playing our part to address the climate crisis by reducing greenhouse gas emissions across our value chain and investing in credible emission removals. Water Stewardship We commit to reducing water consumption across our value chain and to safeguarding and preserving water resources in our communities. Waste Management We commit to integrating zero-waste principles across our business, focusing on reducing waste at its source and diverting waste from landfill through increased recycling and upcycling. Sustainable Packaging We commit to our packaging material being recyclable, reusable, or sustainably sourced. 3. Champion Better Lives Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We unite and inspire the communities within our Company, as well as those we serve, by amplifying voices and perspectives to create a culture of belonging, equality, inclusion, and fairness for all. Community Engagement and Philanthropy We commit to making a meaningful difference in our communities through our global employee volunteerism and our dedication to social and environmental causes. Worker Empowerment and Well-being We are committed to conducting our global operations ethically and with respect for the dignity of all people who make our products. We aim to enrich the quality of work and life for everyone in our supply chain, ensuring they all have the opportunity to reach their full potential in a safe and inclusive environment. Additional information relating to Design the Change can be found in our annual sustainability reports, which is available at our website at http://investor.ralphlauren.com under the caption "Global Citizenship Sustainability Report." Our 2022 Global Citizenship Sustainability Report is expected to be published in June 2022. The content of our sustainability 5 reports is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. See Item 1A "Risk Factors Risks Related to Environmental, Social, and Governance Issues." Recent Developments COVID-19 Pandemic Beginning in the fourth quarter of our Fiscal 2020, a novel strain of coronavirus commonly referred to as COVID-19 emerged and spread rapidly across the globe, including throughout all major geographies in which we operate, resulting in adverse economic conditions and business disruptions, as well as significant volatility in global financial markets. Since then, governments worldwide have periodically imposed varying degrees of preventative and protective actions, such as temporary travel bans, forced business closures, and stay-at-home orders, all in an effort to reduce the spread of the virus. Such factors, among others, have resulted in a significant decline in retail traffic, tourism, and consumer spending on discretionary items. Additionally, companies across a wide array of industries have implemented various initiatives to reduce operating expenses and preserve cash balances during the pandemic, including work furloughs, reduced pay, and severance actions, which could lower consumers' disposable income levels or willingness to purchase discretionary items. Such government restrictions, company initiatives, and other macroeconomic impacts resulting from the pandemic could continue to adversely affect consumer behavior, spending levels, and/or shopping preferences, such as willingness to congregate in indoor shopping centers or other populated locations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced varying degrees of business disruptions and periods of closure of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities, as have our wholesale customers, licensing partners, suppliers, and vendors. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2021 at the peak of the pandemic, the majority of our stores in key markets were closed for an average of 8 to 10 weeks due to government-mandated lockdowns and other restrictions, resulting in significant adverse impacts to our operating results. Resurgences and outbreaks in certain parts of the world resulted in further business disruptions periodically throughout Fiscal 2021, most notably in Europe where a significant number of our stores were closed for approximately two to three months during the second half of Fiscal 2021, including during the holiday period, due to government-mandated lockdowns and other restrictions. Such disruptions continued throughout Fiscal 2022 in certain regions, although to a lesser extent than the comparable prior year fiscal period. Further, throughout the course of the pandemic, the majority of our stores that were able to remain open have periodically been subject to limited operating hours and/or customer capacity levels in accordance with local health guidelines, with traffic remaining challenged. However, our digital commerce operations have grown significantly from pre-pandemic levels, due in part to our investments and enhanced capabilities, as well as changes in consumer shopping preferences. Our wholesale and licensing businesses have experienced similar impacts, particularly in North America and Europe. The COVID-19 pandemic also continues to adversely impact our distribution, logistic, and sourcing partners, including temporary factory closures, labor shortages, vessel, container and other transportation shortages, and port congestion. Such disruptions have reduced the availability of inventory, delayed timing of inventory receipts, and resulted in increased costs for the both the purchase and transportation of such inventory. Throughout the course of the pandemic, our priority has been to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees, customers, and the communities in which we operate around the world. We continue to consider the guidance of local governments and global health organizations and have implemented new health and safety protocols in our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities. We also took various preemptive actions in the prior fiscal year to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position, as described in the Fiscal 2021 10-K. Such actions included, but were not limited to, issuing $1.250 billion of unsecured senior notes, temporarily suspending our quarterly cash dividend and common stock repurchase programs, temporarily reducing the base compensation of our executives and senior management team, and temporarily furloughing or reducing work hours for a significant portion of our employees. Despite the introduction of COVID-19 vaccines and improvements in the global economy as a whole during Fiscal 2022, the pandemic remains volatile and continues to evolve, including the emergence of variants of the virus, such as the Delta and Omicron variants, which has and could continue to adversely affect consumer sentiment and confidence. Accordingly, we cannot predict for how long and to what extent the pandemic will continue to impact our business operations or the overall global economy. We will continue to assess our operations location-by-location, considering the guidance of local governments and global health organizations. See Item 1A " Risk Factors Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions Infectious disease outbreaks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on our business " for additional discussion regarding risks to our business associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. 6 Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan We have undertaken efforts to realign our resources to support future growth and profitability, and to create a sustainable, enhanced cost structure. The key initiatives underlying these efforts involve evaluation of our: (i) team organizational structures and ways of working; (ii) real estate footprint and related costs across our corporate offices, distribution centers, and direct-to-consumer retail and wholesale doors; and (iii) brand portfolio. In connection with the first initiative, on September 17, 2020, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the "Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan") to reduce our global workforce. Additionally, during a preliminary review of our store portfolio during the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, we made the decision to close our Polo store on Regent Street in London. Shortly thereafter, on October 29, 2020, we announced the planned transition of our Chaps brand to a fully licensed business model, consistent with our long-term brand elevation strategy and in connection with our third initiative. Specifically, we have entered into a multi-year licensing partnership, which took effect on August 1, 2021 following a transition period, with an affiliate of 5 Star Apparel LLC, a division of the OVED Group, to manufacture, market, and distribute Chaps menswear and womenswear. The products are being sold at existing channels of distribution with opportunities for expansion into additional channels and markets globally. This agreement has created incremental value for the Company by enabling an even greater focus on elevating our core brands in the marketplace, reducing our direct exposure to the North America department store channel, and setting up Chaps to deliver on its potential with an experienced partner that is focused on nurturing the brand. Later, on February 3, 2021, our Board of Directors approved additional actions related to our real estate initiative. Specifically, we are in the process of further rightsizing and consolidating our global corporate offices to better align with our organizational profile and new ways of working. We also have closed, and may continue to close, certain of our stores to improve overall profitability. Additionally, we further consolidated our North America distribution centers in order to drive greater efficiencies, improve sustainability, and deliver a better consumer experience. Finally, on June 26, 2021, in connection with our brand portfolio initiative, we sold our former Club Monaco business to Regent, L.P. ("Regent"), a global private equity firm, with no resulting gain or loss on sale realized during the first quarter of Fiscal 2022. Regent acquired Club Monaco's assets and liabilities in exchange for potential future cash consideration payable to us, including earn-out payments based on Club Monaco meeting certain defined revenue thresholds over a five-year period. Accordingly, we may realize amounts in the future related to the receipt of such contingent consideration. Additionally, in connection with this divestiture, we are providing Regent with certain operational support for a transitional period of approximately one year, varying by functional area. In connection with the Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan, we have recorded cumulative pre-tax charges of $262.1 million, of which $25.3 million and $236.8 million were recorded during Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021, respectively. Actions associated with the Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan were substantially completed by the end of Fiscal 2022, with certain remaining actions expected to be completed during Fiscal 2023. We now expect total charges of up to $300 million to be incurred in connection with this plan, consisting of cash-related charges of approximately $180 million and non-cash charge