Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 1 C . Cybersecu rity 39 Item 2. Properties 41 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 42 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6. Reserved 43 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 74 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 74 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 74 Item 9B. Other Information 75 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 76 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 77 Item 11. Executive Compensation 77 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 77 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 78 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 78 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 78 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 81 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Various statements in this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, in future filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), in our press releases, and in oral statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company, may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding our current expectations about the Company's future operating results and financial condition, the implementation and results of our strategic plans and initiatives, store openings and closings, capital expenses, our plans regarding our quarterly cash dividend and Class A common stock repurchase programs, our ability to meet citizenship and sustainability goals, and the senior management of the Company. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are indicated by words or phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "outlook," "estimate," "ensure," "commit," "expect," "project," "believe," "envision," "goal," "target," "can," "will," and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance, or achievements expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties, and other factors include, among others: the loss of key personnel, including Mr. Ralph Lauren, or other changes in our executive and senior management team or to our operating structure, including any potential changes resulting from the execution of our long-term growth strategy, and our ability to effectively transfer knowledge and maintain adequate controls and procedures during periods of transition; the potential impact to our business resulting from inflationary pressures, including increases in the costs of raw materials, transportation, wages, healthcare, and other benefit-related costs; the impact of economic, political, and other conditions on us, our customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, including potential business disruptions related to the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars, militant attacks on cargo vessels in the Red Sea, civil and political unrest, diplomatic tensions between the U.S. and other countries, rising interest rates, and bank failures, among other factors described herein; the potential impact to our business resulting from supply chain disruptions, including those caused by capacity constraints, closed factories and/or labor shortages (stemming from pandemic diseases, labor disputes, strikes, or otherwise), scarcity of raw materials, port congestion, and scrutiny or detention of goods produced in certain territories resulting from laws, regulations, or trade restrictions, such as those imposed by the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act ("UFLPA") or the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act ("CAATSA"), which could result in shipment approval delays leading to inventory shortages and lost sales, as well as potential shipping delays, inventory shortages, and/or higher freight costs resulting from the recent Red Sea crisis and/or disruptions to major waterways such as the Suez and Panama canals; our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and the increasing pressure on our margins in a highly promotional retail environment; our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations from both a transactional and translational perspective; our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees to operate our retail stores, distribution centers, and various corporate functions; the impact to our business resulting from a recession or changes in consumers' ability, willingness, or preferences to purchase discretionary items and luxury retail products, which tends to decline during recessionary periods, and our ability to accurately forecast consumer demand, the failure of which could result in either a build-up or shortage of inventory; our ability to successfully implement our long-term growth strategy; our ability to continue to expand and grow our business internationally and the impact of related changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix as a result, as well as our ability to accelerate growth in certain product categories; our ability to open new retail stores and concession shops, as well as enhance and expand our digital footprint and capabilities, all in an effort to expand our direct-to-consumer presence; our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner, develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and execute marketing and advertising programs that appeal to consumers; 1 our ability to competitively price our products and create an acceptable value proposition for consumers; our ability to continue to maintain our brand image and reputation and protect our trademarks; our ability to achieve our goals regarding citizenship and sustainability practices, including those related to climate change and our human capital and supply chain; our ability and the ability of our third-party service providers to secure our respective facilities and systems from, among other things, cybersecurity breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, ransomware, or similar Internet or email events; our efforts to successfully enhance, upgrade, and/or transition our global information technology systems and digital commerce platforms; the potential impact to our business if any of our distribution centers were to become inoperable or inaccessible; the potential impact to our business resulting from pandemic diseases such as COVID-19, including periods of reduced operating hours and capacity limits and/or temporary closure of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities, as well as those of our customers, suppliers, and vendors, and potential changes to consumer behavior, spending levels, and/or shopping preferences, such as willingness to congregate in shopping centers or other populated locations; the potential impact on our operations and on our suppliers and customers resulting from man-made or natural disasters, including pandemic diseases, severe weather, geological events, and other catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks, military conflicts, and other hostilities; our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and cost reductions from our restructuring plans, as well as the impact to our business resulting from restructuring-related charges, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term; the impact to our business resulting from potential costs and obligations related to the early or temporary closure of our stores or termination of our long-term, non-cancellable leases; our ability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity to provide for our cash needs, including our debt obligations, tax obligations, capital expenditures, and potential payment of dividends and repurchases of our Class A common stock, as well as the ability of our customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders to access sources of liquidity to provide for their own cash needs; the potential impact to our business resulting from the financial difficulties of certain of our large wholesale customers, which may result in consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, and other ownership changes in the retail industry, as well as other changes in the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors; our ability to access capital markets and maintain compliance with covenants associated with our existing debt instruments; a variety of legal, regulatory, tax, political, and economic risks, including risks related to the importation and exportation of products which our operations are currently subject to, or may become subject to as a result of potential changes in legislation, and other risks associated with our international operations, such as compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or violations of other anti-bribery and corruption laws prohibiting improper payments, and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including tax laws, trade and labor restrictions, and related laws that may reduce the flexibility of our business; the impact to our business resulting from the potential imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges or barriers to trade, including those resulting from trade developments between the U.S. and China or other countries, and any related impact to global stock markets, as well as our ability to implement mitigating sourcing strategies; changes in our tax obligations and effective tax rate due to a variety of factors, including potential changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws and regulations, accounting rules, or the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction in future periods that are not currently known or anticipated; the potential impact to the trading prices of our securities if our operating results, Class A common stock share repurchase activity, and/or cash dividend payments differ from investors' expectations; our ability to maintain our credit profile and ratings within the financial community; 2 our intention to introduce new products or brands, or enter into or renew alliances; changes in the business of, and our relationships with, major wholesale customers and licensing partners; and our ability to make strategic acquisitions and successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our existing operations. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and judgments and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are unforeseeable and beyond our control. A detailed discussion of significant risk factors that have the potential to cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations is described in Part I of this Form 10-K under the heading of "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. WEBSITE ACCESS TO COMPANY REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Our investor website is http://investor.ralphlauren.com. We were incorporated in June 1997 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge at our investor website under the caption "SEC Filings" promptly after we electronically file such materials with or furnish such materials to the SEC. All such filings are also available on the SEC's website at https://www.sec.gov. Information relating to corporate governance at Ralph Lauren Corporation, including our Corporate Governance Policies, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for all directors, officers, and employees, our Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officers and Senior Financial Officers, and information concerning our directors, Committees of the Board of Directors, including Committee charters, and transactions involving Ralph Lauren Corporation securities by directors and executive officers, are available at our website under the captions "Corporate Governance" and "SEC Filings." Paper copies of these filings and corporate governance documents are available to stockholders without charge by written request to Investor Relations, Ralph Lauren Corporation, 650 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022. In this Form 10-K, references to "Ralph Lauren," "ourselves," "we," "our," "us," and the "Company" refer to Ralph Lauren Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Due to the collaborative and ongoing nature of our relationships with our licensees, such licensees are sometimes referred to in this Form 10-K as "licensing alliances." Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to March 31. All references to "Fiscal 2025" represent the 52-week fiscal year ending March 29, 2025. All references to "Fiscal 2024" represent the 52-week fiscal year ended March 30, 2024. All references to "Fiscal 2023" represent the 52-week fiscal year ended April 1, 2023. All references to "Fiscal 2022" represent the 53-week fiscal year ended April 2, 2022. PART I Item 1. Business. General Founded in 1967 by Mr. Ralph Lauren, we are a global leader in the design, marketing, and distribution of luxury lifestyle products, including apparel, footwear accessories, home, fragrances, and hospitality. For more than 50 years, Ralph Lauren has sought to inspire the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive image have been developed across a wide range of products, brands, distribution channels, and international markets. We believe that our global reach, breadth of lifestyle product offerings, and multi-channel distribution network are unique among luxury and apparel companies. We diversify our business by geography (North America, Europe, and Asia, among other regions) and channel of distribution (retail, wholesale, and licensing). This allows us to maintain a dynamic balance as our operating results do not depend solely on the performance of any single geographic area or channel of distribution. We sell directly to consumers through our integrated retail channel, which includes our retail stores, concession-based shop-within-shops, and digital commerce operations around the world. Our wholesale sales are made principally to major department stores, specialty stores, and third-party digital partners around the world, as well as to certain third-party-owned stores to which we have licensed the right to operate in defined geographic territories using our trademarks. In addition, we license to third parties for specified periods the right to access our various trademarks in connection with the licensees' manufacture and sale of designated products, such as certain apparel, eyewear, fragrances, and home furnishings. 3 We organize our business into the following three reportable segments: North America, Europe, and Asia. In addition to these reportable segments, we also have other non-reportable segments. See " Our Segments " for further discussion of our segment reporting structure. Our global reach is extensive, as we sell directly to customers throughout the world via our 564 retail stores and 699 concession-based shop-within-shops, as well as through our own digital commerce sites and those of various third-party digital partners. Merchandise is also available through our wholesale distribution channels at over 9,600 doors worldwide, the majority in specialty stores, as well as through the digital commerce sites of many of our wholesale customers. In addition to our directly-operated stores and shops, our international licensing partners operate 195 stores and shops. We have been controlled by the Lauren family since the founding of our Company. As of March 30, 2024, Mr. R. Lauren, or entities controlled by the Lauren family, held approximately 84% of the voting power of the Company's outstanding common stock. Objectives and Opportunities Our purpose is to inspire the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style. We believe that our size and the global scope of our operations provide us with design, sourcing, and distribution synergies across our business. Our core strengths include a portfolio of luxury lifestyle products spanning five categories: apparel, footwear accessories, home, fragrances, and hospitality; a well-diversified global multi-channel distribution network; an investment philosophy supported by a strong balance sheet; and an experienced management team. Despite the various risks and uncertainties associated with the current global economic environment, as discussed further in Item 7 " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Global Economic Conditions and Industry Trends, " we believe our core strengths will allow us to effectively execute our long-term growth strategy. An overview of our long-term growth strategy is presented below: 4 Global Citizenship and Sustainability At Ralph Lauren, our purpose to inspire the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style guides everything we do. From creating iconic products to be worn, loved, and passed on through generations, to preserving the world's natural resources and supporting the people and communities that intersect our business, we continue to challenge ourselves when it comes to positively impacting our world. That is what we call Timeless by Design , our approach to Global Citizenship and Sustainability and our ambition for a better future. We weave our Company's purpose throughout our business through three key pillars: 1. Create with Intent Integrated Circularity Our ethos of timelessness has always guided our creative vision. Today, we continue to deepen this philosophy and apply it to how we are shifting from a linear to circular product economy. With our Live On Promise as our North Star, we are evolving the way our products are designed, made, used, and recirculated. From empowering our designers with circular principles, to using materials that are sustainably sourced or recycled, our approach is designed to lessen our environmental impact. Sustainable Materials Our products are designed to be timeless and worn for generations. With this in mind, we choose our materials thoughtfully to ensure high-quality and durability. We are committed to using materials in ways that not only help our products live on, but also help reduce environmental impact, protect biodiversity and animal welfare, support livelihoods, and improve the traceability of raw materials. Design with Intent Since our founding, Ralph Lauren's design has been inspired by beautiful and interconnected histories, arts, crafts, and cultures. Mindful of our efforts, we are on a journey to evolve from inspiration to collaboration with communities that inspire us. That includes taking meaningful steps to be more inclusive throughout our business, from how we design to how products go to market. At its core, our Design with Intent function is about making sure the products we create and the stories we tell are authentic expressions of heritage, which is foundational to our timeless brand. Value Chain for Impact To build a resilient and responsible supply chain, we are continuing to drive transparency and traceability of our full value chain, to strengthen our relationships with suppliers, and to identify areas for improvement. We work with our suppliers to increase transparency, respect human rights, and promote environmental sustainability. 2. Protect the Environment Climate Significant reductions to global greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions are collectively needed so we can protect and preserve our planet. That is why we have created an ambitious roadmap with bold near-term and long-term targets to reduce absolute GHG emissions across our operations and supply chain. Water Stewardship We are committed to reducing water consumption across our value chain, as it is critical for communities and ecosystems to thrive and is also an essential resource for our business. We strive to conserve water throughout our operations, support our suppliers to improve their water use efficiency and responsibly manage wastewater, and help improve community access to this resource. Waste Management We are committed to conserving natural resources by managing waste responsibly. We work to minimize waste in our operations and divert waste from landfills and incineration to donation, reuse, and recycling. Our goal is continued improvement as we incorporate "zero waste" principles throughout our business practices. Chemical Management We are committed to monitoring and reducing hazardous chemical use and discharge from our product manufacturing and supply chain. Biodiversity Our business depends on critical resources such as freshwater and essential raw materials, and climate change and biodiversity loss are closely intertwined. As ecosystems and species are increasingly threatened, we are committed to leveraging science to build an in-depth understanding of our current impacts on biodiversity. 5 3. Champion Better Lives Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We are committed to creating a culture of diversity, equity, and inclusion ("DE I") and belonging inside our Company and throughout the communities we serve. Our DE I strategy consists of five pillars Talent , Collaboration and Belonging , Learning , Communication and Messaging , and Celebration and Recognition and is designed to create a culture of belonging, attract and retain diverse talent, and offer opportunities that enable all people to thrive. Employee Well-being The contributions of our employees make Ralph Lauren a vibrant organization. Our people drive our success and we are dedicated to supporting the physical, emotional, social, and financial needs of our employees and their families to help them thrive. To do so, we are focused on employee wellness, engagement, learning and development, and compensation and benefits. Community Engagement and Philanthropy We seek to make the dream of a better life a reality in communities across the globe through contributions and actions that create positive social and environmental impact. The two main drivers of our giving efforts are through the Company's Social Partnerships and Philanthropy department and donations to The Ralph Lauren Corporate Foundation. Rights and Empowerment in the Supply Chain We are committed to conducting our global operations ethically with respect for the dignity of all people who make our products. To support this, we work with suppliers to build capacity, with workers to empower them and with industry partners to collaborate for positive change. Our comprehensive approach integrates risk assessment, monitoring, remediation, capability building, stakeholder engagement, life skills programs and empowerment opportunities for factory workers. Our most recently published Global Citizenship Sustainability Report covering Fiscal 2023 may be found on our corporate website at https://corporate.ralphlauren.com/citizenship-and-sustainability. Our Global Citizenship Sustainability Report covering Fiscal 2024 is expected to be released in September 2024. The content of our sustainability reports is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. See Item 1A "Risk Factors Risks Related to Citizenship and Sustainability Issues." Recent Developments Next Generation Transformation Project We are in the early stages of executing a large-scale multi-year global project that is expected to significantly transform the way in which we operate our business and further enable our long-term strategic pivot toward a global direct-to-consumer-oriented model (the "Next Generation Transformation project" or "NGT project"). The NGT project will be completed in phases and involves the redesigning of certain end-to-end processes and the implementation of a suite of information systems on a global scale. Such efforts are expected to result in significant process improvements and the creation of synergies across core areas of operations, including merchandise buying and planning, procurement, inventory management, retail and wholesale operations, and financial planning and reporting, better enabling us to optimize inventory levels and increase the speed to which we can react to changes in consumer demand across markets, among other benefits. In connection with the preliminary phase of the NGT project, we incurred other charges of $5.1 million during Fiscal 2024, which were recorded within restructuring and other charges, net in the consolidated statements of operations. Our Brands and Products Our products, which include apparel and footwear accessories for men, women, and children, as well as our fragrance and home collections, together with our hospitality portfolio, comprise one of the most widely recognized families of consumer brands. Reflecting a distinctive American perspective, we have been an innovator in aspirational lifestyle branding and believe that, under the direction of internationally renowned designer Mr. Ralph Lauren, we have had a considerable influence on the way people dress and the way that fashion is advertised throughout the world. We combine consumer insight with our design, marketing, and imaging skills to offer, along with our licensing alliances, broad lifestyle product collections with a unified vision: Apparel Our apparel products include extensive collections of men's, women's, and children's clothing, which are sold under various brand names, including Ralph Lauren Collection, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Double RL, 6 Polo Ralph Lauren, Lauren Ralph Lauren, Polo Golf Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Golf, RLX Ralph Lauren, Polo Ralph Lauren Children, and Chaps, among others. Footwear Accessories Our range of footwear accessories encompasses men's, women's, and children's, including casual shoes, dress shoes, boots, sneakers, sandals, eyewear, watches, fashion and fine jewelry, scarves, hats, gloves, umbrellas, and leather goods, including handbags, luggage, small leather goods, and belts, which are sold under our Ralph Lauren Collection, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Double RL, Polo Ralph Lauren, Lauren Ralph Lauren, Polo Ralph Lauren Children, and Chaps brands. Fragrance Our fragrance offerings capture the essence of Ralph Lauren's men's and women's brands with numerous labels, designed to appeal to a variety of audiences. Women's fragrance products are sold under our Ralph Lauren Collection, Woman by Ralph Lauren, Romance Collection, and Ralph Collection. Men's fragrance products are sold under our Ralph's Club, Purple Label, Polo Blue, Polo Red, Polo Green, Polo Black, Polo 67, Safari, Polo Sport, and Big Pony Men's brands. Our fragrance offerings also include Polo Earth, a gender-neutral fragrance designed with sustainability in mind, made of 97% natural-origin ingredients. Home Our home collections, which are sold primarily under our Ralph Lauren, Polo, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, and Chaps brands, reflect the spirit of the Ralph Lauren lifestyle. Our range of home products includes bed and bath lines, furniture, fabric and wall coverings, lighting, dining, floor coverings, and giftware, among others. Hospitality Continuing to engage our consumers with experiential and unique expressions of the brand, our hospitality portfolio is a natural extension of the World of Ralph Lauren as expressed through the culinary arts. Ralph Lauren's global hospitality collection is comprised of our restaurants including The Polo Bar in New York City, RL Restaurant located in Chicago, Ralph's located in Paris, The Bar at Ralph Lauren located in Milan, Ralph's Bar located in Chengdu, China, and our Ralph's Coffee concept in various cities around the world. Our lifestyle brand image is reinforced by our distribution through our stores and concession-based shop-within-shops, our wholesale channels of distribution, our global digital commerce sites, and our Ralph Lauren restaurants and caf s. We sell our products under the following key brand platforms: 1. Ralph Lauren Luxury Our Luxury group includes: Ralph Lauren Collection and Ralph Lauren Purple Label. Ralph Lauren Collection embodies the highest expression of chic, feminine glamour. Each piece is inspired by a vision of timeless luxury and modern elegance and is crafted with unparalleled passion and artistry. For men, Ralph Lauren Purple Label is the ultimate expression of luxury for the modern gentleman. Refined suitings are hand-tailored, including custom made-to-measure suits crafted in the time-honored traditions of Savile Row. Purple Label's sophisticated sportswear is designed with a meticulous attention to detail, capturing the elegance and ease of Ralph Lauren's signature, timeless style. Ralph Lauren Collection and Ralph Lauren Purple Label are made predominantly in Italy with the utmost attention to detail and quality and are available in select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, an exclusive selection of the finest specialty stores,