Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Item 2. Properties 12 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 12 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 13 Item 4A. Information about our Executive Officers 13 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters , and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6. Reserved 16 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 16 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 42 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 43 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 44 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 45 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS EQUITY 46 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B. Other Information 92 Item 9 C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 92 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers , and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 99 SIGNATURES Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements (including certain projections and business trends) that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as believe , estimate , project , plan , expect , anticipate , will , intend , and other similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: the availability and price of components and materials; macroeconomic factors, including inflation, global and regional business conditions (including adverse impacts in certain markets, such as Oil Gas), commodity prices, currency exchange rates, the cyclical nature of our customers capital spending, and sovereign debt concerns; the severity and duration of disruptions to our business due to pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), natural disasters (including those as a result of climate change), acts of war (including the Russia and Ukraine conflict), strikes, terrorism, social unrest or other causes, including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to manage it on the global economy, liquidity and financial markets, demand for our hardware and software products, solutions, and services, our supply chain, our work force, our liquidity and the value of the assets we own; the availability and cost of capital; our ability to attract, develop, and retain qualified personnel; the successful integration and management of strategic transactions and achievement of the expected benefits of these transactions; laws, regulations, and governmental policies affecting our activities in the countries where we do business, including those related to tariffs, taxation, trade controls (including sanctions placed on Russia), cybersecurity, and climate change; the availability, effectiveness, and security of our information technology systems; our ability to manage and mitigate the risk related to security vulnerabilities and breaches of our hardware and software products, solutions, and services; the successful development of advanced technologies and demand for and market acceptance of new and existing hardware and software products; our ability to manage and mitigate the risks associated with our solutions and services businesses; the successful execution of our cost productivity initiatives; competitive hardware and software products, solutions, and services, pricing pressures, and our ability to provide high quality products, solutions, and services; disruptions to our distribution channels or the failure of distributors to develop and maintain capabilities to sell our products; intellectual property infringement claims by others and the ability to protect our intellectual property; the uncertainty of claims by taxing authorities in the various jurisdictions where we do business; the uncertainties of litigation, including liabilities related to the safety and security of the hardware and software products, solutions, and services we sell; risks associated with our investment in common stock of PTC Inc., including the potential for volatility in our reported quarterly earnings associated with changes in the market value of such stock; our ability to manage costs related to employee retirement and health care benefits; and other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. These forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs as of the date of filing this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. See