Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Item 2. Properties 12 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 13 Item 4A. Information about our Executive Officers 13 PART II Item 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 16 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 46 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 47 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 48 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 49 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS EQUITY 50 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 95 Item 9B. Other Information 95 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 Item 11. Executive Compensation 96 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 97 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 97 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 98 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 101 SIGNATURES Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains statements (including certain projections and business trends) that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as believe , estimate , project , plan , expect , anticipate , will , intend and other similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: the severity and duration of disruptions to our business due to pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, natural disasters, acts of war, strikes, terrorism, social unrest or other causes, including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to manage it on the global economy, liquidity and financial markets, demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services, our supply chain, our work force, our liquidity and the value of the assets we own; macroeconomic factors, including global and regional business conditions (including adverse impacts in certain markets, such as Oil Gas), the availability and cost of capital, commodity prices, the cyclical nature of our customers capital spending, sovereign debt concerns and currency exchange rates; laws, regulations and governmental policies affecting our activities in the countries where we do business, including those related to tariffs, taxation, and trade controls; the availability and price of components and materials; the availability, effectiveness and security of our information technology systems; our ability to manage and mitigate the risk related to security vulnerabilities and breaches of our hardware and software products, solutions and services; the successful development of advanced technologies and demand for and market acceptance of new and existing hardware and software products; our ability to manage and mitigate the risks associated with our solutions and services businesses; the successful execution of our cost productivity initiatives; competitive hardware and software products, solutions and services and pricing pressures, and our ability to provide high quality products, solutions and services; our ability to attract, develop, and retain qualified personnel; disruptions to our distribution channels or the failure of distributors to develop and maintain capabilities to sell our products; the successful integration and management of strategic transactions and achievement of the expected benefits of these transactions; intellectual property infringement claims by others and the ability to protect our intellectual property; the uncertainty of claims by taxing authorities in the various jurisdictions where we do business; the uncertainties of litigation, including liabilities related to the safety and security of the hardware and software products, solutions and services we sell; risks associated with our investment in common stock of PTC Inc., including the potential for volatility in our reported quarterly earnings associated with changes in the market value of such stock; our ability to manage costs related to employee retirement and health care benefits; and other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. These forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs as of the date of filing this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See