Item 1. Business. 3 Item 1.A. Risk Factors. 12 Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 19 Item 1.C. Cybersecurity 19 Item 2. Properties. 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 20 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 21 Item 6 [Reserved] 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 22 Item 7.A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures. 71 Item 9.A. Controls and Procedures. 71 Item 9.B. Other Information. 72 Item 9.C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 73 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 73 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 73 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 73 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence. 73 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 73 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 74 Signatures. 77 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Overview Rollins, Inc. ( Rollins, we, us, our, or the Company ), is an international services company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Through our family of leading brands, we provide essential pest and wildlife control services and protection against termite damage, rodents and insects to more than two million residential and commercial customers from more than 800 Company-owned and franchised locations in approximately 70 countries. Over the course of our lengthy operating history, we have garnered a reputation for providing great customer service. The contracted and recurring nature of our services provide us with visibility into a significant portion of our future revenue. In 1964, brothers O. Wayne and John Rollins acquired Orkin Exterminating Company and in 1965 we changed our name from Rollins Broadcasting, Inc to Rollins, Inc. In 1968, Rollins began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ROL. Since then, we have grown into a premier consumer and commercial services business with numerous industry leading brands including the world renowned Orkin, as well as HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control, Western Pest Services, Critter Control Wildlife, Northwest Exterminating, and Fox Pest Control, among others. Pest control generally consists of assessing a customer's property for conditions that invite pests, tackling current infestations, and stopping the life cycle to prevent future invaders. Termite protection programs include liquid treatments, wet and dry foam applications, termite baiting and wood treatments. We operate under one reportable segment which contains our three service offerings: Residential : Pest control services protecting residential properties from common pests, including rodents, insects and wildlife; Commercial : Workplace pest control solutions for customers across diverse end markets such as healthcare, food service, logistics; and Termite : Termite protection services and ancillary services for both residential and commercial customers. Risk factors associated with our business are discussed in Item 1.A. "Risk Factors." Our Strategic Objectives We regularly assess the business environment, as well as our own strengths and opportunities, and have aligned around key strategic objectives that will help us to drive continued success for Rollins. People First We promote a people first mindset that prioritizes the well-being and development of the individual, as well as our collective team, in all aspects of our business. To provide our customers with the best customer experience, we must focus on cultivating our position as the employer of choice in our industry. This means not only investing in competitive wages and benefits, but also providing tools, training and development opportunities that drive a high level of employee engagement. Customer Loyalty We focus on creating the best customer experience that will enable a loyal customer base and in turn reduce the amount of churn across our customer base. This starts with our people and the interactions they have with our customers. By focusing on this key objective, we expect it to enable growth that will outpace our market growth. Growth Mindset A growth mindset helps us consider ways to improve and best position our business. Our focus here is to identify changes that may present both risks and opportunities to our business. We focus on evaluating changes in the markets we compete 3 Table of Contents in but also across other industries to continue to identify changing dynamics that may impact our people and our customers that may impact our position in the markets we compete. Operational Efficiency As a complement to our growth mindset, our dedication to continuous improvement and operational efficiency is another key tenet of our strategy and culture. We approach our operations from the perspective that everything we do can be improved upon. We are constantly striving to improve our service levels by optimizing our business model and modernizing our business. We believe that our alignment around the key strategic areas will enable us to grow faster than our market, position our business for the future, and deliver value for all stakeholders, including our customers, our employees, our communities and our shareholders. Our Competitive Strengths Rollins is a leader in the global pest control market. We have established a portfolio of premier brands with extensive service capabilities across a deep operating network with a focus on our core pest control market. Our scale enables delivery of great service and provides a significant and reinforcing competitive advantage through (i) comprehensive capabilities to win new residential and commercial accounts, (ii) technology investments for operations optimization and enhanced customer experience, (iii) route density to manage variable costs, and (iv) financial flexibility to generate organic growth and pursue M A. Robust Operating Platform with Proprietary Technology Our extensive footprint creates an efficient and scalable operating platform to facilitate exceptional customer service delivery, increased cross-selling opportunities, and cost efficiencies. We have strategically invested in proprietary routing and scheduling technologies to increase our competitive advantage, which includes real-time service tracking and customer internet communication to personalize the customer experience. The majority of our business runs our proprietary Branch Operating Support System ( BOSS ), which offers a back-end interface to facilitate service tracking and payment processing for technicians. BOSS also provides virtual route management tools to increase route efficiency across our network, reducing miles driven and associated costs while increasing customer retention through on-time and rapid response service. Differentiated Employee Base and Service Delivery Our employees are critical to delivering an outstanding customer experience, and we are highly focused on providing our team with best-in-class training and development opportunities. We operate the 27,000 square foot Rollins Learning Center training facility located in Atlanta, GA, which is a distance-learning and global broadcast facility with simulated environments and classrooms for training. In addition to in-person training, the Rollins Learning Center offers on-demand training sessions that employees can access from anywhere in the world that are produced at our on-site, state-of-the-art broadcast studio. Our unique programs contribute to our position as an employer of choice and have earned us recognition from Training magazine among the Top 125 U.S. Training Companies 17 times in the past 21 years. We were also recognized by the Top Workplaces program as a top workplace on both a national and local level. This marks the seventh consecutive year to be recognized in Atlanta. We continuously monitor co-worker engagement and customer loyalty. Experienced Management Team Our management team combines extensive business and consumer services experience with robust local pest control leadership. Consistent with our culture of attracting, developing and progressing talented individuals, our senior leadership team consists of a combination of long-term internal leaders and strategic hires from well-respected external platforms. Our Chairman, Gary Rollins, is the son of Rollins, Inc. co-founder O. Wayne Rollins and has spent his entire career with the Company, serving as Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) from 2001 to 2022. John Wilson, having served in various roles of increasing responsibility at the Company for over 26 years, serves as Vice Chairman of the Company. Effective January 1, 2023, Jerry Gahlhoff, Jr. assumed the role of CEO and now serves as President and CEO. Mr. Gahlhoff joined the Company as part of the HomeTeam acquisition in 2008. Mr. Gahlhoff has extensive knowledge of the 4 Table of Contents Company s business and industry, having served in various roles of increasing responsibility at HomeTeam and the Company, collectively, for over 22 years. He is also a trained Entomologist. Kenneth Krause has served as the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company since September 2022. Mr. Krause brings over eight years of public company Chief Financial Officer experience and over 20 years of global finance and strategy experience. Elizabeth Chandler has served as the Vice President, General Counsel since she joined the Company in 2013 and as Corporate Secretary since 2018. Ms. Chandler brings over 35 years of legal experience. Pat Chrzanowski, President of Orkin US, joined the Company in 2007 and has over 21 years of pest control experience. Steve Leavitt, President of Rollins Brands, joined the Company in 1994 and has over 28 years of pest control experience. Thomas Tesh joined the Company in 2012 and served as the Vice President of Information Technology from 2012 to 2020, then as Chief Information Officer from 2020-2023. He has served as Chief Information and Administrative Officer beginning in 2023. Mr. Tesh brings over 23 years of pest control experience. International Business We continue to expand our international presence through organic growth, acquisitions, and our international franchise programs. In 2023, we saw revenue growth in our company-owned operations in Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom. We believe geographic diversity allows us to increase brand recognition, meet demands of global customers, and draw on business and technical expertise from teams in several countries, and offers us an opportunity to access new markets. Franchising Programs We have franchise programs through Orkin, Critter Control, Missquito, and our Australian subsidiaries. We had a total of 138, 137 and 135 domestic franchise agreements as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. International franchise agreements totaled 86, 89 and 103 as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Transactions with our franchises involve sales of territories and customer contracts to establish new franchises and the payment of initial franchise fees and royalties by franchisees. The territories, customer contracts and initial franchise fees are typically paid for by a combination of cash and notes. Acquisition Strategy We have extensive experience acquiring companies of all sizes. Over the last three years, we have completed approximately 90 acquisitions, including 24 acquisitions in 2023. Our acquisition strategy targets high quality, profitable businesses with strong leadership, a healthy level of brand awareness, and customer loyalty in the markets they serve that would benefit from incremental growth capital and have the potential to achieve organic growth and margin expansion. Seasonality Our business is affected by weather conditions, including climate change and the seasonal nature of our pest and termite control services. The increase in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue of our pest and termite control operations during such periods as evidenced by the following chart. Consolidated Net Revenues (in thousands) 2023 2022 2021 First Quarter $ 658,015 $ 590,680 $ 535,554 Second Quarter 820,750 714,049 638,204 Third Quarter 840,427 729,704 650,199 Fourth Quarter 754,086 661,390 600,343 Year to date $ 3,073,278 $ 2,695,823 $ 2,424,300 Our quarterly profitability correlates with our revenue due to seasonality, as profit is lower in the first and fourth quarters and higher in the second and third quarters. 5 Table of Contents Materials and Supplies Our Company has relationships with a vast network of national pest control product distributors, manufacturers and other suppliers for pest and termite treatment products. We maintain a sufficient level of products, materials, and other supplies to fulfill our immediate servicing needs and to mitigate any potential short-term shortage in availability from our national network of suppliers. We also have qualified comparable products and materials for key categories to have alternatives ready as needed. However, at any time supply chain disruptions that are more than short-term in nature could impact our levels of products, materials and other supplies. We proactively work with our supplier base and in 2023, we hosted our first ever Supplier Summit, with over 30 of our top suppliers in attendance at our corporate headquarters, to enhance collaboration and strategic relationships. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment with fragmented markets and low barriers to entry. The principal factors of competition in our pest and termite control markets are quality and speed of service, customer proximity, customer satisfaction, brand awareness and reputation, terms of guarantees, safety, technical proficiency and price. Due to our strong direct partnerships with product manufacturers, distributors, and visibility into the inventories, ordering and distribution of materials and supplies, we are able to foresee potential supply disruptions and to quickly adapt. The use of an innovative and industry changing distribution model and technology enables us to maintain adequate supplies for our field operations without a significant investment in warehousing and inventory . We believe that, through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we compete effectively and favorably with our competitors as one of the world s largest pest and termite control companies. Our major competitors include Rentokil, Ecolab, Anticimex, and numerous other regional companies. Research and Development Our expenditures on research activities relating to the development of new products or services are not significant. We utilize the relationships with our manufacturers and materials suppliers to provide new and innovative products and services, coupled with in-depth reviews by our tenured Entomology Department to ensure they meet our strict requirements. We also conduct tests of new products with the specific manufacturers of such products and we rely on research performed by leading universities. We maintain close relationships with several universities for research and validation of treatment procedures and material selection. Some of the new and improved service methods and products are also researched, developed and produced by unaffiliated universities and companies with a portion of these methods and products being produced to the specifications provided by us. Human Capital We believe one of the largest contributors to our Company s success is the quality of our people. Attracting, developing and retaining high-quality talent is the primary objective of our human capital management strategy. The development and retention of high-quality talent enables a better customer experience and improved customer retention. We develop and engage our people through our training at all levels of our organization. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had 19,031 employees. Approximately 17,100 of our employees were located in the United States, with approximately 15,420 employees at U.S. branch offices. Of the U.S. employees, less than 2% are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. At December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Employees 19,031 17,515 16,482 Leadership Development Each Rollins brand cultivates its own leadership development programs that support its own values and culture while considering the best practices of all Rollins brands. Our leaders are trained on the fundamentals of people leadership, business acumen, sales excellence, and technical expertise. Having the right leaders at all levels of our organization is critical to our current and future success. This includes establishing effective succession planning to support our business 6 Table of Contents growth plans. While each of our brands is focused on developing operational leadership capabilities that are brand-specific, Rollins is focused on developing overall leadership capabilities through our Region Manager Development Program (RMDP). The RMDP is a comprehensive leadership development program for mid-level leaders across the organization who lead multiple business units or departments and those preparing to lead at that level. The 12-month program offers a blended learning approach that includes facilitator-led training, executive and peer mentoring, immersive field learning experiences, 360-degree assessments, a 6-month executive coaching engagement, and supported individualized development plans. Since the program was established in 2018, we have graduated a total of 85 senior leaders in five different RMDP classes with continued successes. Workplace Inclusion We make it a priority to promote and create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace that results in higher levels of satisfaction and engagement, stronger staff retention, higher productivity, and a heightened sense of belonging. Our mission is to have a culture of inclusion, where all individuals feel respected, are treated fairly, with an equitable opportunity to excel. Our Workplace Inclusion (WPI) mission to build an inclusive workplace has continued since 2020 under the guidance of our Executive Sponsor and Inclusion Advisory Council which is made up of employees from Rollins brands across the United States. In January 2022, we hired a Director of WPI. The Director s primary role is to implement the WPI Strategic Plan (the Plan ) which was approved by the Executive Leadership team in April of 2022. The Plan includes 5 Strategic Focus Areas which will be implemented across all brands. The 5 Strategic Focus areas are Training Education, Talent Acquisition Career Development, Policies Programs, Communication and Employee Resource Groups. Additionally, we changed various policies, practices and programs to be more inclusive, we recognized cultural holidays and events that are celebrated by our employees throughout the year, and we launched our first Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Our ERGs are led by Rollins employees, are inclusive to all and represent our employee population. Each ERG provides a platform for employees to connect, collaborate, and advocate for their shared interests and experiences. These groups promote inclusivity, provide networking opportunities, and contribute to a sense of belonging among employees. Thus far, we have established the following ERGs: R-Collective: Strives to improve company culture and employee engagement and retention through multigenerational networking. Women+ Resource Community: Provides a resource for women+ at any career level to achieve their goals and celebrate their accomplishments resulting in an enhanced work experience at Rollins. Women of Orkin Pest (WOOP): Increases communication between the women of Orkin by providing opportunities for professional development, mentoring, and networking. PRIDE: Provides a network that supports the professional development of LGBTQ+ employees and allies, promotes recruitment and retention, and builds community. P.E.A.C.E.: To build community for People who Embrace and Advocate for Cultural Equity through networking, team building, and allyship to foster a racially inclusive workplace so that all people can have thriving careers at Rollins. We are excited about the accomplishments on our journey to create a workplace of inclusion and will continue to execute on the strategic plan. Health and Safety We are committed to the health and safety of our employees, customers and communities where we work, live and play. Rollins undertakes a variety of efforts to support the health and well-being of our team members, including their physical and mental health. This includes investing in competitive compensation and benefits while also providing the culture, tools, training and development opportunities to make working at Rollins an enjoyable and rewarding experience. Our employees can take advantage of a range of benefits, including healthcare and wellness programs, vacation and leave of absence benefits including paid sick/personal time off, a 401(k) match, our Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP), personal 7 Table of Contents finance education and advisory services, assistance programs to help with managing personal and work-life challenges, family support programs, and educational assistance. In 2022, we formed a partnership with Everside Health to build an on-site medical clinic at our Rollins Support Center in Atlanta. That clinic provides no-cost primary care to Rollins team members who participate in one of our medical plans in the state of Georgia. Everside provides these services either virtually or through the existing nationwide network of Everside Health clinics for all our team members participating in one of our insurance plans in the U.S. This is an enhanced medical benefit, provided at no cost to team members. We motivate our team members to be leaders in safety by continuously evaluating and improving our safety performance, implementing best practices and regulations, and maintaining safety excellence in everything we do. We have set measurable safety goals and are expanding our tracking mechanisms to ensure compliance. Additionally, we are constantly reviewing and refining safety policies and procedures to ensure they remain efficient and relevant. For example, throughout 2023 we made considerable progress with respect to the implementation and adoption of our driver safety application. The application monitors driving behaviors once a vehicle is in motion, detecting unsafe driving maneuvers related to acceleration, braking, distractions, and speed. We are pleased that in 2023, our average driver safety score for drivers that we monitor showed improvement. We continue our work to increase safety awareness and training, while recognizing and rewarding those that are the safest. We have an established safety governance structure that helps our company prioritize measures to progressively reduce motor vehicle collision and injury-related risk. We have established an ongoing process that requires commitment, communication, and collaboration at all levels of the organization. Our structure is designed to ensure it remains effective and aligned with our organization s goals and objectives. We review and refine our health and safety policies and procedures on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain efficient and relevant for our business. Community Involvement We are a family of brands that has always upheld service to our employees, customers, and communities as a cornerstone. While each of our diverse brands has their own culture of service, we are firmly united in our commitment to engaging with our local communities. We offer employees the opportunity to participate in various community outreach programs. We created Rollins United in 2019 to unify our brands philanthropic visions and consolidate our community outreach efforts. Our overarching goal is to create a significant impact in local communities over an extended period of time. The core mission of Rollins United is that everyone deserves a safe place to live, work, and play. Since 1985, we have partnered with the United Way of Greater Atlanta through employee and company-matching funds, helping make Rollins a community leader for many years. Rollins ranked #7 in the top 25 corporate contributors in 2022 compared to ranking #9 and #11 in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Along with personal contributions from employees, the company hosts rallies, contests, and a silent auction to raise funds. Rollins has contributed approximately $1 million annually for each of the past 4 years. We have a partnership with the Grove Park Foundation (the Foundation ) to help serve our Atlanta community. The partnership allows our employees to volunteer and support the Foundation, which is committed to neighborhood revitalization to improve the quality of life in the Grove Park neighborhood. Representatives from our Atlanta family of brands participate in volunteer opportunities in the Grove Park neighborhood throughout the year. Additionally, many of our operations engage regularly with their local community efforts throughout the year. Our Orkin brand demonstrates its culture of service through its OrkinServes program, which is designed to help take care of communities through employee volunteer opportunities. In 2022, OrkinServes introduced 5 new Division Advocates to serve as a voice for volunteering within their divisions across the United States and Canada. Similarly, our Northwest Exterminating brand developed the Northwest Good Deed Team ("GDT") in 2011 with the focus of being active and involved in the communities where they serve. Led by 2 full-time teammates, the GDT works with local organizations across 6 states and is supported by our team across Northwest. 8 Table of Contents Regulatory Considerations Our business is subject to various local and national legislative and regulatory enactments including, but not limited to, environmental laws, antitrust laws, employment and benefit laws (including wage and hour laws, payroll taxes, anti-discrimination laws, pension laws and regulations, and ERISA), immigration laws, motor vehicle laws and regulations, human health and safety laws, securities laws including, but not limited to, SEC regulations, and federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker safety and the pest and termite control industry. If we were to fail to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities, suffer losses to our reputation and our business or suffer the loss of licenses or penalties that may affect how the business is operated. Consumer Protection, Privacy and Solicitation Matters We are subject to international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers generally, including laws governing lending, debt collection and consumer finance; consumer privacy and fraud; collection and use of consumer data; telemarketing; and other forms of solicitation. Specifically, rules adopted by the Federal Communications Commission and Federal Trade Commission, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Telemarketing Sales Rule, along with state laws and other legal authorities, govern our telephone and texting sales practices. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates our email solicitations, and the Consumer Review Fairness Act regulates consumer opinions on social media regarding our products and services. The California Consumer Privacy Act, including amendments under the California Privacy Rights Act, and laws in other states provide consumers and sometimes employees the right to know what personal data businesses collect, how the data is used, and give them the right to access, delete and opt out of the sale of their personal information to third parties. We are subject to some of these states laws depending on the number of customers or amount of revenue in the specific state. Similarly, we are bound by foreign laws and regulations governing data protection in the United Kingdom (UK General Data Protection Regulation and Data Protection Act 2018; Canada (Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act); Australia (Privacy Act and its Australian Privacy Principles); and Singapore (Personal Data Protection Act and Spam Control Act), when applicable. Environmental, Health and Safety Matters Specifically, our businesses are subject to various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters. Among other things, these laws regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal, transportation and management of hazardous substances and wastes and protect the health and safety of our employees. In addition, the use of certain pesticide products is also regulated by various federal, state, provincial and local environmental and public health agencies. These laws also impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating, and damages resulting from, present and past releases of hazardous substances, including releases by prior owners or operators of sites we currently own or operate. Compliance with environmental, health and safe