Item 1. Business. 3 Item 1.A. Risk Factors. 6 Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 9 Item 2. Properties. 10 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 10 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 10 Item 4.A. Information about our Executive Officers 11 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 12 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 14 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 14 Item 7.A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 22 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 27 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures. 63 Item 9.A. Controls and Procedures. 63 Item 9.B. Other Information. 63 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 64 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 64 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 64 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence. 65 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 65 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 66 Signatures. 69 Schedule II. 71 Exhibit Index. 72 2 PART I Item 1. Business General Rollins, Inc. (the Company ) was originally incorporated in 1948 under the laws of the state of Delaware as Rollins Broadcasting, Inc. The Company is an international service company with headquarters located in Atlanta, Georgia, providing pest and termite control services through its wholly-owned subsidiaries to both residential and commercial customers in the United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, and Asia with international franchises in Mexico, Canada, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Our pest and termite control services are performed through a contract that specifies the pricing arrangement with the customer. For a listing of the Company s Subsidiaries, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K). The Company has only one reportable segment, its pest and termite control business. Revenue, operating profit and identifiable assets for this segment, which includes the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia are included in Item 8 of this document, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on pages 27 and 28. The Company s results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any single customer or a few customers or the Company s foreign operations. Three-for-Two Stock Split All share and per share data presented have been adjusted to account for the three-for-two stock split effective December 10, 2018. Common Stock Repurchase Program At the July 24, 2012 Quarterly Board of Directors meeting, the Board authorized the purchase of 11.3 million shares of the Company s common stock. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company did not repurchase shares on the open market. In total, there are 7.6 million additional shares authorized to be repurchased under prior Board approval. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Backlog Backlog services and orders are usually provided within the month following the month of order receipt, except in the area of prepaid pest control and bait monitoring services, which are usually provided within twelve months of order receipt. The Company does not have a material portion of its business that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of a governmental entity. December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Backlog $ 7,137 $ 5,837 $ 4,875 3 Franchising Programs Orkin Franchises The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Orkin Systems, LLC, began its Orkin franchise program in the U.S. in 1994, and established its first international franchise in 2000. It has since expanded to Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. The Company continues to expand its growth through the franchise program of its Orkin brand. This program is primarily used in smaller markets where it is currently not economically efficient to locate a company-owned Orkin branch. Domestic franchisees are subject to a contractual buyback provision at Orkin s option with a pre-determined purchase price using a formula applied to revenues of the franchise; however, the franchisee has the prior right of renewal of the agreement. International franchise agreements also contain an optional buyback provision, subject to the franchisee s renewal option. At December 31, Orkin franchises 2019 2018 2017 Domestic franchises 50 47 47 International franchises 97 86 81 Total Orkin franchises 147 133 128 Critter Control Franchises The Company expands its animal control growth through the franchise program of its Critter Control brand. The Company has purchased several Critter Control locations from its franchise owners while renaming and converting several previous Trutech locations to Critter Control. The majority of Critter Control s locations are franchised. Critter Control has franchises in the United States and had two in Canada as of December 31, 2017, one of which was repurchased in 2018 to bring the international count to one at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. At December 31, Critter Control franchises 2019 2018 2017 Critter Control franchises 84 80 89 Orkin Australia Franchises The Company has Australian franchises through Orkin Australia s wholly-owned subsidiaries, Murray Pest Control and Scientific Pest Management. At December 31, Australia franchises 2019 2018 2017 Total Australia franchises 10 10 11 Seasonality The business of the Company is affected by the seasonal nature of the Company s pest and termite control services. The increase in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue of the Company s pest and termite control operations during such periods as evidenced by the following chart. Total Net Revenues (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 First quarter $ 429,069 $ 408,742 $ 375,247 Second quarter 523,957 480,461 433,555 Third quarter 556,466 487,739 450,442 Fourth quarter 505,985 444,623 414,713 Years ended December 31, $ 2,015,477 $ 1,821,565 $ 1,673,957 4 Inventories The Company has relationships with a national pest control product distributor and other suppliers for pest and termite control treatment products. The Company maintains a sufficient level of chemicals, materials and other supplies to fulfill its immediate servicing needs and to alleviate any potential short-term shortage in availability from its national network of suppliers. Competition The Company believes that Rollins, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries Orkin, Orkin Canada, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control of Stockton, Inc. ( Clark Pest Control ), Western Pest Services, The Industrial Fumigant Company, Crane Pest Control, Waltham Services, Trutech, PermaTreat, Orkin Australia, Critter Control, Safeguard Pest Control, Northwest Pest Control, OPC Services, and Aardwolf Pestkare competes favorably with competitors as the world s largest pest and termite control company. The Company s major competitors include Terminix, Ecolab, Rentokil and Anticimex. The principal methods of competition in the Company s pest and termite control markets are quality of service, customer proximity, guarantee terms, reputation for safety, technical proficiency, and price. Research and Development Expenditures by the Company on research activities relating to the development of new products or services are not significant. Some of the new and improved service methods and products are researched, developed and produced by unaffiliated universities and companies. Also, a portion of these methods and products are produced to the specifications provided by the Company. The Company maintains a close relationship with several universities for research and validation of treatment procedures and material selection. The Company conducts tests of new products with the specific manufacturers of such products. The Company also works closely with leading scientists, educators, industry consultants and suppliers to improve service protocols and materials. Environmental and Regulatory Considerations The Company s pest control business is subject to various legislative and regulatory enactments that are designed to protect the environment, public health and consumers. Compliance with these requirements has not had a material negative impact on the Company s financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Federal Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act ( FIFRA ) This federal law (as amended) grants to the states the responsibility to be the primary agent in enforcement and conditions under which pest control companies operate. Each state must meet certain guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency in regulating the following: licensing, record keeping, contracts, standards of application, training and registration of products. This allows each state to institute certain features that set their regulatory programs in keeping with special interests of the citizens wishes in each state. The pest control industry is impacted by these federal and state regulations. Food Quality Protection Act of 1996 ( FQPA ) The FQPA governs the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides and does not have a direct impact on how the Company conducts its business. Environmental Remediation The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), also known as Superfund, is the primary Federal statute regulating the cleanup of inactive hazardous substance sites and imposing liability for cleanup on the responsible parties. Responsibilities governed by this statute include the management of hazardous substances, reporting releases of hazardous substances, and establishing the necessary contracts and agreements to conduct cleanup. Customarily, the parties involved will work with the EPA and under the direction of the responsible state agency to agree and implement a plan for site remediation. Consistent with the Company s responsibilities under these regulations, the Company undertakes environmental assessments and remediation of hazardous substances from time to time as the Company determines its responsibilities for these purposes. As these situations arise, the Company accrues management s best estimate of future costs for these activities. Based on management s current estimates of these costs, management does not believe these costs are material to the Company s financial condition or operating results. 5 Employees The number of persons employed by the Company as of January 31, 2020 was approximately 15,000. December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Employees 14,952 13,734 13,126 Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, are available free of charge on our website at www.rollins.com , under the heading Investor Relations Filings and Reports SEC Filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1.A. Risk Factors Our business depends on our strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands and develop a positive client reputation could hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of customers. Our strong brands, Rollins, Orkin, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control, Western Pest Services, Northwest Pest Control, The Industrial Fumigant Company, Crane Pest Control, Waltham Services, Trutech, PermaTreat, Critter Control, Safeguard Pest Control, Aardwolf Pestkare, OPC Services, and other strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing our brands increases our ability to enter new markets and launch new and innovative services that better serve the needs of our customers. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues and product/technical failures. Further, if our brands are significantly damaged, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We continue to develop strategies and innovative tools to gain a deeper understanding of customer acquisition, retention and client replacement in order to more effectively expand and retain our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to remain a service leader and continue to provide high-quality pest control services that are truly beneficial and play a meaningful role in people s lives. Economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Pest and termite services represent discretionary expenditures to many of our residential customers. If consumers restrict their discretionary expenditures, we may suffer a decline in revenues from our residential service lines. Economic downturns can also adversely affect our commercial customers, including food service, hospitality and food processing industries whose business levels are particularly sensitive to adverse economies. For example, we may lose commercial customers and related revenues because of consolidation or cessation of commercial businesses or because these businesses switch to a lower cost provider. Expanding into international markets presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations may not be successful. An element of our strategy includes further expansion into international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations, of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an adverse effect on the financial results of our international operations. 6 Our inability to attract and retain skilled workers may impair growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain skilled workers. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for skilled employees is high, and the supply is very limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in wage rates paid by us, or both. If either of these events occurred, our capacity and profitability could be diminished, and our growth potential could be impaired. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position in the pest control industry in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our revenues and earnings may be affected by changes in competitors prices, and general economic issues. We compete with other large pest control companies, as well as numerous smaller pest control companies, for a finite number of customers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are service quality, product availability, terms of guarantees, reputation for safety, technical proficiency and price. Although we believe that our experience and reputation for safety and quality service are excellent, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain our competitive position. Our operations could be affected by pending and ongoing litigation. In the normal course of business, we and some of our subsidiaries are defendants in a number of lawsuits or arbitrations, which allege that plaintiffs have been damaged. The Company does not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position; however, it is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters, however unlikely, could result in a charge that might be material to the results of an individual year. Our operations could be affected if there is unauthorized access of personal, financial, or other data or information about our customers, employees, third parties, or of the Company s proprietary of confidential information. We could be subject to interruption of our business operations, private litigation, reputational damage and costly penalties. Our information technology systems, as well as the information technology systems of our third-party business partners and service providers, can contain personal, financial, health, or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Our information technology systems also contain the Company s and its wholly-owned subsidiaries proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans and product development initiatives. We rely on, among other things, commercially available vendors, cyber protection systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of this information and data. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, meet standards set by the payment card industry ( PCI ). We have also implemented policies and procedures to comply with consumer privacy laws in the areas in which we operate. We continue to evaluate and modify our systems and protocols for data security compliance purposes, and such standards may change from time to time. Activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our systems. Any compromises, breaches or errors in applications related to our systems or failures to comply with applicable standards could cause damage to our reputation and interruptions in our operations, including our customers ability to pay for our services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products and could result in a violation of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Also, a breach of data security or failure to comply with rigorous consumer privacy requirements could expose us to customer litigation, regulatory actions and costs related to the reporting and handling of such a violation or breach. 7 Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with regulatory and environmental laws. Our business is significantly affected by environmental laws and other regulations relating to the pest control industry and by changes in such laws and the level of enforcement of such laws. We are unable to predict the level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations, how such laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, or whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted. We believe our present operations substantially comply with applicable federal and state environmental laws and regulations. We also believe that compliance with such laws has had no material adverse effect on our operations to date. However, such environmental laws are changed frequently. We are unable to predict whether environmental laws will, in the future, materially affect our operations and financial condition. Penalties for noncompliance with these laws may include cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective actions, which would negatively affect our future financial results. We may not be able to identify, complete or successfully integrate acquisitions. Acquisitions have been and may continue to be an important element of our business strategy. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us in the future. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to integrate successfully the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own business. Any inability on our part to integrate and manage the growth from acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are affected by adverse weather conditions. Our operations are directly impacted by the weather conditions worldwide. The business of the Company is affected by the seasonal nature of the Company s pest and termite control services. The increase in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue and income of the Company s pest and termite control operations during such periods. The business of the Company is also affected by extreme weather such as drought which can greatly reduce the pest population for extended periods. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them and applicable laws and regulations. Each franchising brand also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are independent third parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses. As a result, the ultimate success of any franchise operation rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments to us will be adversely affected and our brands image and reputation could be harmed. This could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, if subcontractors, vendors and franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third-party distributors, subcontractors, vendors and franchisees. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards. These strains in our relationships or claims could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we receive communications from our franchisees regarding complaints, disputes or questions about our practices and standards in relation to our franchised operations and certain economic terms of our franchise arrangements. If franchisees or groups representing franchisees were to bring legal proceedings against us, we would vigorously defend against the claims in any such proceeding. Our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted, and the price of our common stock could decline. 8 Our brand recognition could be impacted if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names and service marks, Orkin , Orkin Canada , HomeTeam Pest Defense , TAEXX , Clark Pest Control , Western Pest Services , Northwest Exterminating , Critter Control , IFC , Trutech , Waltham Pest Services , OPC Services , Perma Treat Pest and Termite Control , Crane Pest Control , Safeguard the Pest Control People , Aardwolf Pest Control and others. We have not sought to register or protect every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which they are or may be used. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or activities infringe their intellectual property rights. The Company s management has a substantial ownership interest; public stockholders may have no effective voice in the Company s management. The Company has elected the Controlled Company exemption under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) Listed Company Manual. The Company is a Controlled Company because a group that includes the Company s Chairman of the Board, R. Randall Rollins, and his brother, Gary W. Rollins, who is the Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and a director of the Company, and certain companies under their control, controls in excess of fifty percent of the Company s voting power. As a Controlled Company, the Company need not comply with certain NYSE rules. Rollins, Inc. s executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold directly, or through indirect beneficial ownership, in the aggregate, approximately 57 percent of the Company s outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these persons will effectively control the operations of the Company, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as acquisitions and approval of matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company at a premium. Our management has a substantial ownership interest, and the availability of the Company s common stock to the investing public may be limited. The availability of Rollins common stock to the investing public would be limited to those shares not held by the executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which could negatively impact Rollins stock trading prices and affect the ability of minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by executive officers, directors and their affiliates of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in Rollins, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a takeover of the Company. Rollins, Inc. s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other documents contain provisions including advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and staggered terms for the Board of Directors. These provisions may make a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company s Board of Directors more difficult or expensive. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Item 2. Properties. The Company s administrative headquarters are owned by the Company, and are located at 2170 Piedmont Road, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30324. The Company owns or leases over 550 branch offices and operating facilities used in its business as well as the Rollins Training Center located in Atlanta, Georgia, the Rollins Customer Service Center located in Covington, Georgia, and the Pacific Division Administration and Training Center in Riverside, California. None of the branch offices, individually considered, represents a materially important physical property of the Company. The facilities are suitable and adequate to meet the current and reasonably anticipated future needs of the Company. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In the normal course of business, certain of the Company s subsidiaries are defendants in a number of lawsuits, claims or arbitrations which allege that the subsidiaries services caused damage. In addition, the Company defends employment related cases and claims from time to time, which may include claims on a representative or class action basis alleging wage and hour law violations. We are involved in certain environmental matters primarily arising in the normal course of business. We are actively contesting each of these matters. Management does not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company