Item 1. Business. 3 Item 1.A. Risk Factors. 9 Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 16 Item 2. Properties. 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 16 Part II 17 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 17 Item 6 [Reserved] 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 19 Item 7.A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 25 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 26 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures. 60 Item 9.A. Controls and Procedures. 61 Item 9.B. Other Information. 61 Item 9.C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 62 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 62 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 62 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 62 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence. 62 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 62 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 63 Signatures. 65 Schedule II. 67 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Overview Rollins, Inc. ( Rollins, we, us, our, or the Company ), is an international services company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Through our family of leading brands, we provide essential pest and wildlife control services and protection against termite damage, rodents and insects to more than two million residential and commercial customers from more than 800 Company-owned and franchised locations in over 70 countries. Over the course of our lengthy operating history, we have garnered a reputation for providing great customer service. The contracted and recurring nature of our services provide us with visibility into a significant portion of our future earnings. In 1964, brothers O. Wayne and John Rollins acquired Orkin Exterminating Company and in 1965 we changed our name from Rollins Broadcasting, Inc to Rollins, Inc. In 1968, Rollins began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ROL . Since then, we have grown into a premier consumer and commercial services business with numerous industry leading brands including the world renowned Orkin, as well as HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control, Western Pest Services, Critter Control Wildlife, and Northwest Pest Control, among others. We operate under one reportable segment which contains our three business lines: Residential : Pest control services protecting residential properties from common pests, including rodents, insects and wildlife; Commercial : Workplace pest control solutions for customers across diverse end markets such as healthcare, foodservice, logistics; and Termite : Traditional and baiting termite protection services and ancillary services for both residential and commercial customers. Our Competitive Strengths Rollins is a global leader in pest control. We have established a portfolio of premier brands with extensive service capabilities across a deep operating network. Our scale enables delivery of great service and provides a significant and reinforcing competitive advantage through (i) comprehensive capabilities to win new residential and commercial accounts, (ii) technology investments for operations optimization and enhanced customer experience, (iii) route density to manage variable costs, and (iv) financial flexibility to generate organic growth and pursue M A. Robust Operating Platform with Proprietary Technology Our extensive footprint creates an efficient and scalable operating platform to facilitate exceptional customer service delivery, increased cross-selling opportunities, and cost efficiencies. We have strategically invested in proprietary routing and scheduling technologies to increase our competitive advantage, which includes real-time service tracking and customer Internet communication to personalize the customer experience. We also developed and launched our proprietary Branch Operating Support System ( BOSS ), which offers a back-end interface to facilitate service tracking and payment processing for technicians. BOSS also provides virtual route management tools to increase route efficiency across our network, reducing miles driven and associated costs while increasing customer retention through on-time and rapid response service. Differentiated Employee Base and Service Delivery Our employees are critical to delivering an outstanding customer experience, and we are highly focused on providing our team with best-in-class training and development opportunities. We operate the 27,000 square foot Rollins Learning Center training facility located in Atlanta, GA, which is a distance-learning and global broadcast facility with simulated environments and classrooms for training. In addition to in-person training, the Rollins Learning Center offers on-demand training sessions that employees can access from anywhere 3 Table of Contents in the world that are produced at our on-site, state-of-the-art broadcast studio. Our unique programs contribute to our position as an employer of choice and have earned us recognition from Training magazine among the Top 125 U.S. Training Companies 16 times in the past 19 years. We continuously monitor co-worker engagement and customer loyalty. Experienced Management Team Our management team combines extensive business and consumer services experience with robust local pest control leadership. Consistent with our culture of attracting, developing and progressing talented individuals, our senior leadership team consists of a combination of long-term internal leaders and strategic hires from well-respected external platforms. Our Chairman and CEO, Gary Rollins, is the son of Rollins, Inc. co-founder O. Wayne Rollins and has spent his entire career with the Company, serving as CEO since 2001. International Business We continue to expand our international presence through organic growth, international acquisitions, and our international franchise programs. In 2021, we saw revenue growth in our operations in Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Singapore. We believe geographic diversity allows us to increase brand recognition, meet demands of global customers, and draw on business and technical expertise from teams in several countries, and offers us an opportunity to access new markets. Franchising Programs We have franchise programs through Orkin, Critter Control and our Australian subsidiaries. We had a total of 135, 128 and 134 domestic franchise agreements as of December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. International franchise agreements totaled 103, 101 and 104 as of December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Transactions with our franchises involve sales of territories and customer contracts to establish new franchises and the payment of initial franchise fees and royalties by franchisees. The territories, customer contracts and initial franchise fees are typically paid for by a combination of cash and notes. Acquisition Strategy We have extensive experience acquiring companies of all sizes. Over the last three years, we have completed approximately 100 acquisitions, including 39 acquisitions in 2021. Our acquisition strategy targets high quality, profitable businesses with strong leadership that would benefit from incremental growth capital and have the potential to achieve margin expansion through cost and revenue synergies. Seasonality Our business is somewhat affected by weather conditions, including climate change and the seasonal nature of our pest and termite control services. The increase in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue of our pest and termite control operations during such periods as evidenced by the following chart. Consolidated Net Revenues (in thousands) 2021 2020 2019 First Quarter $ 535,554 $ 487,901 $ 429,069 Second Quarter 638,204 553,329 523,957 Third Quarter 650,199 583,698 556,466 Fourth Quarter 600,343 536,292 505,985 Year to date $ 2,424,300 $ 2,161,220 $ 2,015,477 Materials and Supplies Our Company has relationships with a vast network of national pest control product distributors, manufacturers and other suppliers for pest and termite control treatment products. We maintain a sufficient level of products, materials, and other supplies to fulfill our immediate servicing needs and to mitigate any potential short-term shortage in availability from our national network of suppliers. We 4 Table of Contents also have qualified comparable products and materials for key categories to have alternatives ready as needed. However, at any time supply chain disruptions that are more than short-term in nature could impact our levels of products, materials and other supplies. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. The principal factors of competition in our pest and termite control markets are the delivery of high quality of service, customer proximity, guarantee terms, reputation for safety, technical proficiency, and price. Due to our strong direct partnerships with product manufacturers, distributors, and visibility into the inventories, ordering and distribution of materials and supplies, we are able to foresee potential supply disruptions and to quickly adapt. The use of an innovative and industry changing distribution model and technology enables us to maintain adequate supplies for our field operations without a significant investment in warehousing and inventory. We believe that, through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we compete effectively and favorably with our competitors as one of the world s largest pest and termite control companies. Our major competitors include Terminix, Ecolab, Rentokil and Anticimex. Research and Development Our expenditures on research activities relating to the development of new products or services are not significant. We utilize the relationships with our manufacturer and materials suppliers to provide new and innovative products and services, coupled with in-depth reviews by our tenured Technical Services department to ensure they meet our strict requirements. We also conduct tests of new products with the specific manufacturers of such products and we rely on research performed by leading universities. In addition, we also work closely with leading scientists, educators, industry consultants and suppliers to improve service protocols and materials. We maintain close relationships with several universities for research and validation of treatment procedures and material selection. Some of the new and improved service methods and products are also researched, developed and produced by unaffiliated universities and companies with a portion of these methods and products being produced to the specifications provided by us. Environmental and Regulatory Considerations Our business is subject to various local and national legislative and regulatory enactments including, but not limited to, environmental laws, antitrust laws, employment laws (including wage and hour laws, payroll taxes and anti-discrimination laws), immigration laws, motor vehicle laws and regulations, human health and safety laws, securities laws including, but not limited to, SEC regulations, and federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker safety and the pest and termite control industry. If we were to fail to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities, suffer losses to our reputation and our business or suffer the loss of licenses or penalties that may affect how the business is operated, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental, Health and Safety Matters Specifically, our businesses are subject to various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters. Among other things, these laws regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal, transportation and management of hazardous substances and wastes and protect the health and safety of our employees. These laws also impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating, and damages resulting from, present and past releases of hazardous substances, including releases by prior owners or operators of sites we currently own or operate. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws increases our operating costs, limits or restricts the services we provide and subjects us to the possibility of regulatory or private actions or proceedings. Consumer Protection, Privacy and Solicitation Matters Additionally, we are subject to international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers generally, including laws governing lending, debt collection and consumer finance, consumer privacy and fraud, the collection and use 5 Table of Contents of consumer data, telemarketing and other forms of solicitation. The telemarketing rules adopted by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 and the Federal Telemarketing Sales Rule issued by the Federal Trade Commission, along with other legal authorities, govern our telephone sales practices. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates our email solicitations and the Consumer Review Fairness Act regulates consumer opinions on social media regarding our products and services. The California Consumer Privacy Act provides consumers the right to know what personal data we collect, how it is used, and the right to access, delete and opt out of the sale of their personal information to third parties. Franchise Matters Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations governing franchise sales, marketing and licensing and franchise trade practices generally, including applicable rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission. These laws and regulations generally require disclosure of business information in connection with the sale and licensing of our franchises. Certain state regulations also affect our ability as a franchisor, to revoke or refuse to renew a franchise. From time to time, we and one or more franchisees have been, and may in the future become, involved in a dispute regarding the franchise relationship, including payment of royalties or fees, location of branches, advertising, purchase of products by franchisees, non-competition covenants, compliance with our standards or franchise renewal criteria. Any such franchise dispute could possibly have an adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. Our worldwide intellectual property portfolio is strengthened through innovation and brand recognition, and a comprehensive approach for protection and enforcement. Risk factors associated with our intellectual property are discussed in Item 1.A. Risk Factors . We protect and promote our intellectual property portfolio and take those actions we deem appropriate to enforce our intellectual property rights and to defend our rights both domestically and internationally. Although in the aggregate, our global portfolio of more than 450 trademarks is a valuable asset that is important to our operations, we believe that our competitive advantage is also largely attributable to the technical, marketing, and sales competence and capabilities of our employees, rather than on any individual trademark. Therefore, we do not consider the expiration or loss of any single trademark or intellectual property right, to be material to our business as a whole. Human Capital We believe one of the largest contributors to our Company s success is the quality of our people. Attracting, developing and retaining high-quality talent is the primary objective of our human capital management. The development and retention of high-quality talent leads to a better customer experience and better customer retention. We develop and engage our people through our training at all levels of our organization. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had 16,482 employees. Approximately 14,800 of our employees were located in the United States, with approximately 13,700 employees at U.S. branch offices. Of the U.S. employees, less than 2% are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. At December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Employees 16,482 15,616 14,952 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We make it a priority to promote and create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace that results in higher levels of satisfaction and engagement, stronger staff retention, higher productivity, and a heightened sense of belonging. Our mission is to have a culture of inclusion, where all individuals feel respected, are treated fairly, with an equitable opportunity to excel. To reinforce our mission, we launched a new global Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiative in 2020. We created an Inclusion Advisory Council made up of employees from several different brands across the United States and Canada as a component of this initiative. In 2021 the Executive Leadership team approved a full-time management level position that will spearhead the Workplace Inclusion Strategic Plan. With the 6 Table of Contents continued input from the Advisory Council, the Director s focus is on implementing the plan, monitoring, evaluating and measuring our efforts. Additionally, towards the end of 2020, we launched MissQuito, which is our first US based company that is led by a black woman. MissQuito began servicing customers in early 2021. Our goal is to create organizational change focusing on inclusion for all employees and connection with all customers. Health and Safety during COVID-19 We are committed to the health and safety of our employees, customers and communities where we work, live and play. During fiscal 2021, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we continued to execute our pre-established business continuity plans including our pandemic SAFE Workplace procedures to maintain compliance with state and local jurisdictions. We continue to limit traffic in and out of our locations. Management also regularly updates our employees and customers on COVID-19 developments in a consistent and timely manner which includes contact information for our Employee Assistance Program. Community Involvement We offer employees the opportunity to participate in various community outreach programs and believe that this commitment helps the Company to meet its goals of attracting, developing and retaining high-quality employees. We created Rollins United in 2019 to unify our brands philanthropic visions and consolidate our community outreach efforts. Our overarching goal is to create a significant impact in local communities over an extended period of time. The core mission of Rollins United is that everyone deserves a safe place to live, work, and play. Over the last 40 years, we have partnered with the United Way of Greater Atlanta through employee and company-matching funds, helping make Rollins a community leader for many years. Rollins ranked #11 in the top 25 corporate contributors in 2020 compared to ranking #14 in 2019. Along with personal contributions from employees, the company hosts rallies, contests, and a silent auction to raise funds. Rollins has continued to increase its contributions from a 2020 total of $1.1 million to a 2021 total of $1.2 million. We also have a partnership with the Grove Park Foundation (the Foundation ) to help serve our Atlanta community. The partnership allows our employees to volunteer and support the Foundation, which is committed to neighborhood revitalization to improve the quality of life in Northwest Atlanta. Representatives from our Atlanta family of brands participate in volunteer opportunities in the Grove Park neighborhood throughout the year. Additionally, many of our operations engage regularly with their local community efforts throughout the year. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, are available free of charge on our website at www.rollins.com , under the heading SEC Filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: (1) our visibility into our future earnings because of the contracted and recurring nature of our services; (2) our investments in proprietary routing and scheduling technologies to increase our competitive advantage; (3) our belief that international expansion and geographic diversity allow us to increase brand recognition, meet demands of global customers and draw on business and technical expertise from teams in several countries, as well as access new markets; (4) our ability to quickly adapt to potential supply disruptions because of our strong direct partnerships with product manufacturers, distributors, and visibility into the inventories, ordering and distribution of materials and supplies; (5) our ability to maintain adequate supplies for our field operations without a significant investment in warehousing and inventory because of the use of an innovative and industry changing distribution model and technology; (6) our belief that the expiration or loss of any single trademark or intellectual property right would not be material to our business as a whole; (7) our belief that we compete effectively and favorably with our competitors as one of the world s largest pest and termite control companies; (8) our belief that we maintain a sufficient level of products, materials and other supplies to fulfill our immediate servicing needs and to alleviate any potential short-term shortage in availability from our national network of suppliers; (9) the suitability and adequacy of our 7 Table of Contents facilities to meet our current and reasonably anticipated future needs; (10) our belief that the development and retention of high-quality talent leads to a better customer experience and better customer retention; (11) our belief that if we make it a priority to promote and create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace, it will result in higher levels of satisfaction and engagement, stronger staff retention, higher productivity, and a heightened sense of belonging; (12) our goals to create organizational change focusing on inclusion for all employees; (13) our belief that our commitment to offer employees the opportunity to participate in various community outreach programs will help us meet our goals of attracting, developing and retaining high-quality employees and create a significant impact in local communities over time; (14) our belief that no pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow or prospects; (15) our belief that we establish sufficient loss contingency reserves based upon outcomes of such pending claims, proceedings or litigation that we currently believe to be probable and reasonably estimable; (16) our belief that the SEC Investigation is primarily focused on how the Company established accruals and reserves at period-ends for periods beginning January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2018 and the impact of those accruals and reserves on reported earnings per share, specifically, in the first quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2017 and the Company s inability to predict the outcome of the SEC investigation, or the possibility that the ultimate amount of potential liability could be different from the amount accrued under ASC 450; (17) our belief that no restatement of our prior period financial statements will be required as a result of the SEC Investigation or matters related thereto; (18) our belief that our current cash and cash equivalents balances, future cash flows expected to be generated from operating activities, and available borrowings under our $175.0 million revolving credit facility and $300.0 million term loan facility (as amended January 27, 2022) will be sufficient to finance our current operations and obligations, and fund expansion of our business for the foreseeable future; (19) our expectation to continue our payment of cash dividends, subject to our earnings and financial condition and other relevant factors; (20) our belief that we maintain adequate liquidity and capital resources, without regard to its foreign deposits, to finance domestic operations and obligations and to fund expansion of our domestic business; (21) our projected 2022 capital expenditures; (22) our plans to seek new acquisitions; (23) the plans to grow the business in foreign markets through reinvestment of foreign deposits and future earnings and through acquisitions of unrelated companies with no expectation of repatriation of cash from our foreign subsidiaries; (24) our belief that we have adequate liquid assets, funding sources and insurance accruals to accommodate certain insurance claims; (25) our expectation that we will maintain compliance with the covenants contained in our Revolving Credit Agreement throughout 2022; (26) the expected impact and amount of our contractual obligations; (27) our expectations regarding termite claims and factors that impact future costs from those claims; (28) the expected collectability of accounts receivable; (29) our belief that our tax positions are fully supportable; (30) our beliefs about our accounting policies and the impact of recent accounting pronouncements; (31) our belief that our exposure to market risks arising from changes in foreign exchange rates will not have a material impact upon our results of operations going forward; (32) our ability to utilize all of our foreign net operating losses; (33) our reasonable certainty that we will exercise the renewal options on our vehicle leases; (34) expectations regarding the recognition of compensation costs related to time-lapse restricted shares; (35) our ability to be proactive in safety and risk management to develop and maintain ongoing programs to reduce and prevent incidents and claims under our insurance programs and arrangements; (36) our potential suspension of future services for customers with past due balances; and (37) management s intention that our floating-to-fixed interest rate swap for an aggregate notional amount of $100.0 million will hedge a portion of the Company s floating rate indebtedness under the Credit Facility. Our actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements because of various risks, timing and uncertainties including, without limitation, the failure to maintain and enhance our brands and develop a positive client reputation; our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business and our brand recognition; actions taken by our franchisees, subcontractors or vendors that may harm our business; general economic conditions; the impact of the extent and duration of economic contraction related to COVID-19 on general economic activity for the remainder of 2022 and beyond; the impact of future developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company s business, results of operations, accounting assumptions and estimates and financial condition, including, without limitation, restrictions in customer discretionary expenditures, disruptions in credit or financial markets, increases in fuel prices, raw material costs or other operating costs; potential increases in labor costs; labor shortages and/or our inability to attract and retain skilled workers; competitive factors and pricing practices; changes in industry practices or technologies; the degree of success of our termite process reforms and pest control selling and treatment methods; our ability to identify, complete and successfully integrate potential acquisitions; unsuccessful expansion into international markets; climate change and unfavorable weather conditions; a breach of data security resulting in the unauthorized access of personal, financial, proprietary, confidential or other personal data or information about our customers, employees, third parties, or of our proprietary confidential information; damage to our brands or reputation; possibility of an adverse ruling against us in pending litigation, regulatory action or investigation; the ongoing SEC investigation and any potential related risks and uncertainties; changes in various government laws and regulations, including environmental regulations; the adequacy of our insurance coverage to cover all significant risk exposures; the effectiveness of our risk management and safety program; general market risk; management s substantial ownership interest and its impact on public stock