Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 Information About Our Executive Officers 16 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. [Reserved] 18 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 29 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 Item 9B. Other Information 66 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 66 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 67 Item 11. Executive Compensation 67 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 68 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 68 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 68 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 69 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 69 Signatures 70 2 Information About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Annual Report ) includes and incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. In addition, we, or our executive officers on our behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) or in connection with oral statements made to the press, potential investors or others. All statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, estimate, plans, expects, projects, should, will, believes or intends and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management s current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include any ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations, financial results and liquidity, which will depend on numerous evolving factors that we cannot accurately predict or assess, including: the duration and scope of the pandemic, new variants of the virus and the distribution and efficacy of vaccines; the impact of vaccine mandates on our workforce in certain jurisdictions; any negative impact on global and regional markets, economies and economic activity; actions governments, businesses and individuals take in response to the pandemic; the effects of the pandemic, including all of the foregoing, on our employees, customers, suppliers, and business partners, and how quickly economies and demand for our products and services recover following the pandemic. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include but are not limited to statements regarding operating results, the success of our operating plans, our expectations regarding our ability to generate cash and reduce debt and associated interest expense, profit and cash flow expectations, the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth, our expectations regarding growth through acquisitions and the ability to complete the announced divestiture of our TransCore business, including obtaining any required regulatory approvals with respect thereto. Important assumptions relating to the forward-looking statements include, among others, demand for our products, the cost, timing and success of product upgrades and new product introductions, raw material costs, expected pricing levels, expected outcomes of pending litigation, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. These assumptions could prove inaccurate. Although we believe that the estimates and projections reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, our expectations may prove to be incorrect. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: general economic conditions; difficulty making acquisitions and successfully integrating acquired businesses; any unforeseen liabilities associated with future acquisitions; limitations on our business imposed by our indebtedness; unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates; failure to effectively mitigate cybersecurity threats, including any litigation arising therefrom; failure to comply with new data privacy laws and regulations, including any litigation arising therefrom; difficulties associated with exports/imports and risks of changes to tariff rates; risks and costs associated with our international sales and operations; rising interest rates; product liability and insurance risks; increased warranty exposure; future competition; the cyclical nature of some of our markets; reduction of business with large customers; risks associated with government contracts; changes in the supply of, or price for, labor, energy, raw materials, parts and components, including as a result of impacts from the current inflationary environment, ongoing supply chain constraints or COVID-19; environmental compliance costs and liabilities; risks and costs associated with asbestos-related litigation; potential write-offs of our goodwill and other intangible assets; our ability to successfully develop new products; failure to protect our intellectual property; the effect of, or change in, government regulations (including tax); economic disruption caused by terrorist attacks, health crises (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) or other unforeseen geopolitical events; and the factors discussed in Item 1A to this Annual Report under the heading Risk Factors. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of these statements in light of new information or future events. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS All currency amounts are in millions unless specified Our Business Roper Technologies, Inc. ( Roper, the Company, we, our or us ) is a diversified technology company. We operate businesses that design and develop software (both license and Software-as-a-Service ( SaaS )) and engineered products and solutions for a variety of niche end markets. We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in earnings and cash flow by emphasizing continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses and by acquiring other businesses that offer high value-added software, services, engineered products and solutions that we believe are capable of achieving growth and maintaining high margins. We compete in many niche markets and believe we are the market leader or a competitive alternative to the market leader in most of these markets. In the last three years, we have deployed nearly $8.6 billion of capital toward acquisitions, including approximately $5.4 billion in 2020 for the acquisition of Vertafore, Inc., a leading provider of SaaS solutions for the property and casualty insurance industry. During 2021, Roper signed definitive agreements to divest its TransCore, Zetec and CIVCO Radiotherapy businesses for an aggregate of approximately $3.2 billion in cash. Roper has completed the divestitures of Zetec and CIVCO Radiotherapy, in the first quarter of 2022 and fourth quarter of 2021, respectively, and expects the TransCore transaction to close in the first quarter of 2022 for approximately $2.7 billion. The financial results for these businesses are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Information regarding discontinued operations is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We were incorporated on December 17, 1981 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Market Share, Market Expansion, and Product Development Leadership with Engineered Content for Niche Markets - We maintain a leading position in many of our markets. We believe our market positions are attributable to the technical sophistication of our products and software, the applications expertise used to create our advanced products and systems, and our distribution and service capabilities. Our businesses realize growth from new and existing customers in their niche markets through successfully executing go-to-market strategies, developing new products and applications, and delivering professional services. Diversified End Markets and Geographic Reach - We have a global presence, with sales to customers outside the U.S. totaling $1,342.2 in 2021. Information regarding our international operations is set forth in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Our Reportable Segments Our operations are reported in four segments based upon business models and capital deployment strategy and objectives. The segments are: Application Software, Network Software Systems, Measurement Analytical Solutions and Process Technologies. Financial information about our reportable segments is presented in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Application Software Our Application Software segment had net revenues of $2,380.6 for the year ended December 31, 2021, representing 41.2% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Application Software segment. Aderant - provides comprehensive management software solutions for law and other professional services firms, including business development, calendar/docket matter management, time and billing and case management. CBORD - provides campus solutions software including access and cashless systems and food and nutrition service management serving primarily higher education and healthcare markets. 4 CliniSys - provides diagnostic and laboratory information management software solutions. Data Innovations - provides software solutions that enable enterprise management of hospitals and independent laboratories. Deltek - provides enterprise software and information solutions for government contractors, professional services firms and other project-based businesses. Horizon - provides software, services, and technologies for foodservice operations specializing in K-12. IntelliTrans - provides transportation management software and services to bulk and break-bulk commodity producers. PowerPlan - provides financial and compliance management software and solutions to large complex companies in asset-intensive industries. Strata - provides cloud-based financial analytics and performance management software that is used by healthcare providers for financial planning, decision support and continuous cost improvement. Vertafore - provides cloud-based software to the property and casualty insurance industry, including agency management, compliance, workflow, and data solutions. Network Software Systems Our Network Software Systems segment had net revenues of $1,338.4 for the year ended December 31, 2021, representing 23.2% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Network Software Systems segment. ConstructConnect - provides cloud-based data, collaboration and estimating automation software solutions to a network of pre-construction contractors. DAT - provides electronic marketplaces that connect available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight throughout North America. Foundry - provides software technologies used to deliver visual effects and 3D content for the entertainment and digital design industries. Inovonics - provides high performance wireless sensor network and solutions for a variety of applications. iPipeline - provides cloud-based software solutions for the life insurance and financial services industries. iTradeNetwork - provides electronic marketplaces and supply chain software that connect food suppliers, distributors and vendors, primarily in the perishable food sector. Link Logistics - provides electronic marketplaces that connect available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight throughout Canada. MHA - provides health care service and software solutions to alternate site health care markets. RF IDeas - provides RFID card readers used in numerous identity access management applications across a variety of vertical markets. SHP - provides data analytics and benchmarking information for the post-acute healthcare provider marketplace. SoftWriters - provides software solutions to pharmacies that primarily serve the long term care marketplace. 5 Measurement Analytical Solutions Our Measurement Analytical Solutions segment had net revenues of $1,559.6 for the year ended December 31, 2021, representing 27.0% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Measurement Analytical Solutions segment. Alpha - provides precision rubber and polymer testing instruments, and data analysis software. CIVCO Medical Solutions - provides accessories focused on guidance and infection control for ultrasound procedures. Dynisco - provides solutions for testing and analyzing plastics used in a variety of end markets. FMI - provides dispensers and metering pumps which are utilized in a broad range of applications requiring precision fluid control. Hansen - provides control valves for large industrial refrigeration systems. Hardy - provides precision weighing equipment for process and packaging for a variety of industries including food processing, automated manufacturing, chemical, plastics, and rubber. IPA - provides automated surgical scrub and linen dispensing equipment for healthcare providers. Logitech - provides equipment and consumables used for sample preparation and material analysis used primarily in the semiconductor and geological science industries. Neptune - provides water meters, enabling water utilities to remotely monitor their customers utilizing Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) and Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) technologies. Northern Digital - provides optical and electromagnetic precision measurement systems for medical and industrial applications. Struers - provides equipment and consumables for sample preparation and testing of solid materials used across a variety of end markets. Technolog - provides products and services to water and gas utilities, used for network monitoring, pressure control, and remote meter reading. Uson - provides automated leak detection equipment for a variety of end markets, including automotive, medical device, pharmaceutical, and general industrial. Verathon - provides medical devices that enable airway management and bladder volume measurement solutions for healthcare providers. Process Technologies Our Process Technologies segment had net revenues of $499.2 for the year ended December 31, 2021, representing 8.6% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Process Technologies segment. AMOT - provides temperature control and emergency shutoff valves used by customers in the energy and general industrial end markets. CCC - provides turbomachinery control hardware, software, and services for customers across the upstream, midstream, and downstream energy markets. Cornell - provides specialized pumps used across a variety of end markets, including agriculture, energy, food processing, mining, waste water processing, and general industrial. FTI - provides flow meter calibrators, and controllers used primarily in the aerospace, automotive, energy, and general industrial end markets. 6 Metrix - provides vibration monitoring systems and controls across a variety of end markets. PAC - provides analytical instruments used by energy refineries and laboratories. Roper Pump - provides specialty pumps and drilling power sections used by customers in the energy, general industrial, and transportation end markets. Viatran - provides pressure and level sensors for energy and general industrial end markets. Materials and Suppliers We believe most materials and supplies we use are readily available from numerous sources and suppliers throughout the world. However, some components and sub-assemblies are currently available from only a limited number of suppliers. We regularly investigate and identify alternative sources where possible, and we believe these conditions equally affect our competitors. Although supply shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our revenues, we expect to continue to be impacted by supply chain challenges including increased material costs, component shortages and transportation disruptions and delays, all of which could escalate in the future. Remaining Performance Obligations and Backlog Remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price of firm orders for which work has not been performed and excludes unexercised contract options. As of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $3,790.4 and $2,958.8, respectively. Backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations expected to be recognized as revenue within the next 12 months. Backlog was $2,560.8 at December 31, 2021, and $2,061.8 at December 31, 2020. Distribution and Sales Distribution and sales occur primarily through direct sales offices, manufacturers representatives, resellers and distributors. Governmental Regulations We face extensive government regulation around the world relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of our products, software, and services. The following sections describe certain significant regulations to which we are subject, but these are not the only regulations to which our businesses must comply. For a description of the risks related to the regulations that our businesses are subject to, please refer to