Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 13 Item 2. Properties 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 13 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 16 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 26 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 28 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 62 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 62 Item 9B. Other Information 62 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 63 Item 11. Executive Compensation 63 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 63 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 64 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 64 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 65 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 65 Signatures 66 2 Information About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Annual Report ) includes and incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. In addition, we, or our executive officers on our behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) or in connection with oral statements made to the press, potential investors or others. All statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, estimate, plans, expects, projects, should, will, believes or intends and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management s current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include but are not limited to statements regarding operating results, the success of our operating plans, our expectations regarding our ability to generate cash and reduce debt and associated interest expense, profit and cash flow expectations, the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and our expectations regarding growth through acquisitions. Important assumptions relating to the forward-looking statements include, among others, demand for our products, the cost, timing and success of product upgrades and new product introductions, raw material costs, expected pricing levels, expected outcomes of pending litigation, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. These assumptions could prove inaccurate. Although we believe that the estimates and projections reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, our expectations may prove to be incorrect. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions; difficulty making acquisitions and successfully integrating acquired businesses; any unforeseen liabilities associated with future acquisitions; limitations on our business imposed by our indebtedness; unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates; failure to effectively mitigate cybersecurity threats; failure to comply with new data privacy laws and regulations; difficulties associated with exports/imports and risks of changes to tariff rates; risks and costs associated with our international sales and operations; rising interest rates; product liability and insurance risks; increased warranty exposure; future competition; the cyclical nature of some of our markets; reduction of business with large customers; risks associated with government contracts; changes in the supply of, or price for, raw materials, parts and components; environmental compliance costs and liabilities; risks and costs associated with asbestos-related litigation; potential write-offs of our goodwill and other intangible assets; our ability to successfully develop new products; failure to protect our intellectual property; the effect of, or change in, government regulations (including tax); economic disruption caused by terrorist attacks, health crises or other unforeseen events; and the factors discussed in Item 1A to this Annual Report under the heading Risk Factors. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable. However, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of them in light of new information or future events. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS All currency amounts are in millions unless specified Our Business Roper Technologies, Inc. ( Roper, the Company, we, our or us ) is a diversified technology company. We operate businesses that design and develop software (both license and Software-as-a-Service ( SaaS )) and engineered products and solutions for a variety of niche end markets. We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in earnings and cash flow by emphasizing continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses and by acquiring other businesses that offer high value-added software, services, engineered products and solutions that we believe are capable of achieving growth and maintaining high margins. We compete in many niche markets and believe we are the market leader or a competitive alternative to the market leader in most of these markets. We were incorporated on December 17, 1981 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Market Share, Market Expansion, and Product Development Leadership with Engineered Content for Niche Markets - We maintain a leading position in many of our markets. We believe our market positions are attributable to the technical sophistication of our products and software, the applications expertise used to create our advanced products and systems, and our distribution and service capabilities. Our operating units grow their businesses through new product development and development of new applications and services to satisfy customer needs. In addition, our operating units grow our customer base by expanding our access to customers and entering adjacent markets. Diversified End Markets and Geographic Reach - We have a global presence, with sales to customers outside the U.S. totaling $1.4 billion in 2019 . Information regarding our international operations is set forth in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Our Business Segments During the first quarter of 2019, we implemented a realignment of our reportable segment structure. The new reportable segments continue to provide a transparent view into Roper s operations and capital deployment strategy and objectives. The Company s new reporting segment structure reinforces Roper s diversified, niche market strategy by reporting based upon business models instead of end markets. The four new reportable segments (and businesses within each; including changes due to acquisitions and divestitures since the realignment) are as follows: Application Software - Aderant, CBORD, CliniSys, Data Innovations, Deltek, Horizon, IntelliTrans, PowerPlan, Strata, Sunquest Network Software Systems - ConstructConnect, DAT, Foundry, Inovonics, iPipeline, iTradeNetwork, Link Logistics, MHA, RF IDeas, SHP, SoftWriters, TransCore Measurement Analytical Solutions (1) - Alpha, CIVCO Medical Solutions, CIVCO Radiotherapy, Dynisco, FMI, Hansen, Hardy, IPA, Logitech, Neptune, Northern Digital, Struers, Technolog, Uson, Verathon Process Technologies - AMOT, CCC, Cornell, FTI, Metrix, PAC, Roper Pump, Viatran, Zetec (1) The Measurement Analytical Solutions segment includes the results of the divestitures completed in 2019 through the transaction date for (i) Princeton Instruments, Photometrics, Lumenera, and other brands (collectively, the Imaging businesses), sold to Teledyne Technologies Inc. ( Teledyne ) on February 5, 2019 and (ii) Gatan, Inc. ( Gatan ) sold to AMETEK, Inc. ( AMETEK ) on October 29, 2019. The Company s strategy, organizational structure, and day-to-day operations of our businesses remain unchanged. All prior periods have been recast to reflect the changes noted above. Information regarding our business segments is set forth in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 4 Application Software Our Application Software segment had net revenues of $1.59 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 , representing 29.6% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Application Software segment. Aderant - provides comprehensive management software solutions for law and other professional services firms, including business development, calendar/docket matter management, time and billing and case management. CBORD - provides campus solutions software including access and cashless systems and food and nutrition service management serving primarily higher education and healthcare markets. CliniSys - provides laboratory information management software solutions. Data Innovations - provides software solutions that enable enterprise management of hospitals and independent laboratories. Deltek - provides enterprise software and information solutions for government contractors, professional services firms and other project-based businesses. Horizon - provides software, services, and technologies for foodservice operations specializing in K-12. IntelliTrans - provides transportation management software and services to bulk and break-bulk commodity producers. PowerPlan - provides financial and compliance management software and solutions to large complex companies in asset-intensive industries. Strata - provides cloud-based financial analytics and performance management software that is used by healthcare providers for financial planning, decision support and continuous cost improvement. Sunquest - provides diagnostic and laboratory information systems to health care providers worldwide. Network Software Systems Our Network Software Systems segment had net revenues of $1.53 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 , representing 28.5% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Network Software Systems segment. ConstructConnect - provides cloud-based data, collaboration and estimating automation software solutions to a network of pre-construction contractors. DAT - provides electronic marketplaces that connect available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight throughout North America. Foundry - provides software technologies used to deliver visual effects and 3D content for the entertainment and digital design industries. Inovonics - provides high performance wireless sensor network and solutions for a variety of applications. iPipeline - provides cloud-based software solutions for the life insurance and financial services industries. iTradeNetwork - provides electronic marketplaces and supply chain software that connect food suppliers, distributors and vendors, primarily in the perishable food sector. Link Logistics - provides electronic marketplaces that connect available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight throughout Canada. MHA - provides health care service and software solutions to alternate site health care markets. RF IDeas - provides RFID card readers used in numerous identity access management applications across a variety of vertical markets. 5 SHP - provides data analytics and benchmarking information for the post-acute healthcare provider marketplace. SoftWriters - provides software solutions to pharmacies that primarily serve the long term care marketplace. TransCore - provides toll systems and toll products, transaction and violation processing services, and intelligent traffic systems to governmental and private sector entities. Measurement Analytical Solutions Our Measurement Analytical Solutions segment had net revenues of $1.60 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 , representing 29.7% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Measurement Analytical Solutions segment. Alpha - provides precision rubber and polymer testing instruments, and data analysis software. CIVCO Medical Solutions - provides accessories focused on guidance and infection control for ultrasound procedures. CIVCO Radiotherapy - provides radiotherapy solutions, including patient positioning and immobilization devices, and patient care products. Dynisco - provides solutions for testing and analyzing plastics used in a variety of end markets. FMI - provides dispensers and metering pumps which are utilized in a broad range of applications requiring precision fluid control. Hansen - provides control valves for large industrial refrigeration systems. Hardy - provides precision weighing equipment for process and packaging for a variety of industries including food processing, automated manufacturing, chemical, plastics, and rubber. IPA - provides automated surgical scrub and linen dispensing equipment for healthcare providers. Logitech - provides equipment and consumables used for sample preparation and material analysis used primarily in the semiconductor geological science industries. Neptune - provides water meters, enabling water utilities to remotely monitor their customers utilizing Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) and Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) technologies. Northern Digital - provides optical and electromagnetic precision measurement systems for medical and industrial applications. Struers - provides equipment and consumables for sample preparation and testing of solid materials used across a variety of end markets. Technolog - provides products and services to water and gas utilities, used for network monitoring, pressure control, and remote meter reading. Uson - provides automated leak detection equipment for a variety of end markets, including automotive, medical device, pharmaceutical, and general industrial. Verathon - provides medical devices that enable airway management and bladder volume measurement solutions for healthcare providers. 6 Process Technologies Our Process Technologies segment had net revenues of $0.65 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 , representing 12.2% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by business that comprise the Process Technologies segment. AMOT - provides temperature control and emergency shutoff valves used by customers in the energy and general industrial end markets. CCC - provides turbomachinery control hardware, software, and services for customers across the upstream, midstream, and downstream energy markets. Cornell - provides specialized pumps used across a variety of end markets, including agriculture, energy, food processing, mining, waste water processing, and general industrial. FTI - provides flow meter calibrators, and controllers used primarily in the aerospace, automotive, energy, and general industrial end markets. Metrix - provides vibration monitoring systems and controls across a variety of end markets. PAC - provides analytical instruments used by energy refineries and laboratories. Roper Pump - provides specialty pumps and drilling power sections used by customers in the energy, general industrial, and transportation end markets. Viatran - provides pressure and level sensors for energy and general industrial end markets. Zetec - provides non-destructive testing equipment and solutions used primarily in the power generation and other industrial end markets. Materials and Suppliers We believe most materials and supplies we use are readily available from numerous sources and suppliers throughout the world. However, some components and sub-assemblies are currently available from only a limited number of suppliers. We regularly investigate and identify alternative sources where possible, and we believe these conditions equally affect our competitors. Supply shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our revenues although delays in shipments have occurred following such supply interruptions. Backlog Our backlog includes only firm unfilled orders expected to be recognized as revenue within twelve months. Backlog was $1.99 billion at December 31, 2019 , and $1.69 billion at December 31, 2018 . Distribution and Sales Distribution and sales occur primarily through direct sales offices, manufacturers representatives, resellers and distributors. Environmental Matters and Other Governmental Regulation Our operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. We use, generate and dispose of hazardous substances and waste in our operations and could be subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties and related claims. We are required to conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. In connection with our acquisitions, we may assume significant environmental liabilities, some of which we may not be aware of, or may not be quantifiable, at the time of acquisition. In addition, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new requirements could increase our costs or subject us to new or increased liabilities. 7 Customers No customer accounted for 10% or more of net revenues for 2019 for any of our segments or for our Company as a whole. Competition Generally, our products and solutions face significant competition, usually from a limited number of competitors. We believe that we are a leader in most of our markets, and no single company competes with us over a significant number of product lines. Competitors might be large or small in size, often depending on the size of the niche market we serve. We compete primarily on product quality, performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise, system and service flexibility, distribution channel access and customer service capabilities. Patents and Trademarks In addition to trade secrets, unpatented know-how, and other intellectual property rights, we own or license the rights under a number of patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to certain of our products and businesses. We also employ various methods, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with individuals and companies we do business with, employees, distributors, representatives and customers to protect our trade secrets and know-how. We believe none of our operating units are substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark, copyright, or other item of intellectual property or group of patents, trademarks or copyrights. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had 16,460 employees, with 10,621 located in the United States. We have 167 employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information All reports we file electronically with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our annual proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no cost on our website at www.ropertech.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. These filings are also accessible on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines; the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee; and our Business Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct are also available on our website. Any amendment to the Business Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct and any waiver applicable to our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers will be posted on our website within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE ). The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report.