Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 16 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 Information About Our Executive Officers 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. [Reserved] 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures A bout Market Risk 29 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9B. Other Information 67 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 67 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation 68 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 70 Signatures 71 2 Information About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Annual Report ) includes and incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. In addition, we, or our executive officers on our behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) or in connection with oral statements made to the press, potential investors, or others. All statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, estimate, plans, expects, projects, should, will, believes, intends, and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management s current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include but are not limited to statements regarding operating results, the success of our operating plans, our expectations regarding our ability to generate cash and reduce debt and associated interest expense, profit and cash flow expectations, the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth, and our expectations regarding growth through acquisitions. Important assumptions relating to the forward-looking statements include, among others, demand for our products, the cost, timing, and success of product upgrades and new product introductions, raw material costs, expected pricing levels, expected outcomes of pending litigation, competitive conditions, and general economic conditions. These assumptions could prove inaccurate. Although we believe that the estimates and projections reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, our expectations may prove to be incorrect. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: general economic conditions; difficulty making acquisitions and successfully integrating acquired businesses; any unforeseen liabilities associated with future acquisitions; failure to effectively mitigate cybersecurity threats, including any litigation arising therefrom; failure to comply with new data privacy laws and regulations, including any litigation arising therefrom; risks and costs associated with our international sales and operations; rising interest rates; limitations on our business imposed by our indebtedness; product liability, litigation, and insurance risks; future competition; reduction of business with large customers; risks associated with government contracts; changes in the supply of, or price for, labor, energy, raw materials, parts, and components, including as a result of impacts from the current inflationary environment, or supply chain constraints; potential write-offs of our goodwill and other intangible assets; our ability to successfully develop new products; failure to protect our intellectual property; unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates; difficulties associated with exports/imports and risks of changes to tariff rates; increased warranty exposure; environmental compliance costs and liabilities; the effect of, or change in, government regulations (including tax); risks associated with the use of artificial intelligence; economic disruption caused by armed conflicts (such as the war in Ukraine and the conflict in the Middle East), terrorist attacks, health crises (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), or other unforeseen geopolitical events; and the factors discussed in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the heading Risk Factors. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of these statements in light of new information or future events. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS All currency amounts are in millions unless specified Our Business Roper Technologies, Inc. ( Roper, the Company, we, our, or us ) is a diversified technology company. Roper has a proven, long-term, successful track record of compounding cash flow and shareholder value. We operate market leading businesses that design and develop vertical software and technology enabled products for a variety of defensible niche markets. We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in revenue, earnings, and cash flow by enabling continuous improvement in the operating performance of our businesses and by acquiring other businesses that offer high value-added software, services, technology-enabled products, and solutions that we believe are capable of achieving growth and maintaining high margins. We compete in many defensible niche markets and believe we are the market leader or a competitive alternative to the market leader in most of these markets. In the last three years, we have deployed approximately $6,550 of capital toward acquisitions, including approximately $1,380 in 2023 for the acquisition of Syntellis Performance Solutions, a leading provider of Software-as-a-Service ( SaaS ) solutions for healthcare, financial institution, and higher education providers and approximately $3,750 in 2022 for the acquisition of Frontline, a leading provider of SaaS solutions for school administration. Additionally, we deployed approximately $1,420 toward other acquisitions, primarily bolt-on acquisitions to help build on the strategic position of several of our businesses. In January 2024, we announced that we reached a definitive agreement to acquire Procare Solutions, a leading provider of cloud-based software for the childcare market, for a purchase price of approximately $1,860. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2024, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. On November 22, 2022, the Company completed the divestiture of a majority 51% equity stake in its industrial businesses, including its entire historical Process Technologies reportable segment and the industrial businesses within its historical Measurement Analytical Solutions reportable segment, to Clayton, Dubilier Rice, LLC. The businesses included in this transaction were Alpha, AMOT, CCC, Cornell, Dynisco, FTI, Hansen, Hardy, Logitech, Metrix, PAC, Roper Pump, Struers, Technolog, Uson, and Viatran (collectively Indicor ). Following the sale of the majority stake, the Company retained a minority equity interest in Indicor. This transaction is referred to herein as the Indicor Transaction. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company held a 47.3% and 49.0% minority equity interest in Indicor, respectively. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on this minority equity interest. During 2021, Roper entered into definitive agreements to divest our TransCore, Zetec, and CIVCO Radiotherapy businesses ( 2021 Divestitures ). Roper completed the 2021 Divestitures by the end of the first quarter of 2022. The aggregate of the 2021 Divestitures and the Indicor Transaction have greatly reduced the cyclicality and asset intensity of the Company. In addition, the Company has an increased mix of recurring revenue and a higher margin profile. The financial results for Indicor and the 2021 Divestitures are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Unless otherwise noted, discussion within Part I relates to continuing operations. Information regarding discontinued operations is described further in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. We were incorporated on December 17, 1981 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Market Share, Market Expansion, and Product Development Leadership with Technology and Products for Niche Markets We maintain a leading position in many of our markets. We believe our market positions are attributable to the applications expertise used to create high value products and solutions for our customers, the underlying critical nature of our offerings, and the inherent customer intimacy of our chosen niche markets. Our businesses realize growth from new and existing customers in their niche markets through successfully executing go-to-market strategies, developing new products and applications, and delivering professional services. Diversified End Markets and Geographic Reach We have a global presence, with sales to customers outside of the United States ( U.S. ) totaling $873.4 in 2023. Information regarding our international operations is set forth in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 4 Our Reportable Segments The Company s segment reporting structure is based on business model and delivery of performance obligations. The three reportable segments are as follows: Application Software - Aderant, CBORD, Clinisys, Data Innovations, Deltek, Frontline, IntelliTrans, PowerPlan, Strata, Vertafore Network Software - ConstructConnect, DAT, Foundry, iPipeline, iTradeNetwork, Loadlink, MHA, SHP, SoftWriters Technology Enabled Products - CIVCO Medical Solutions, FMI, Inovonics, IPA, Neptune, Northern Digital, rf IDEAS, Verathon Financial information about our reportable segments is presented in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Application Software Our Application Software segment had net revenues of $3,186.9 for the year ended December 31, 2023, representing 51.6% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by businesses that comprise the Application Software segment: Aderant comprehensive management software solutions for law and other professional services firms, including business development, calendar/docket matter management, time and billing, and case management. CBORD campus solutions software including access and cashless systems, and food and nutrition service management, serving primarily higher education and healthcare markets along with software, services, and technologies for foodservice operations specializing in K-12. Clinisys diagnostic and laboratory information management software solutions. Data Innovations software solutions that enable enterprise management of hospitals and independent laboratories. Deltek enterprise software and information solutions for government contractors, professional services firms, and other project-based businesses. Frontline K-12 school administration software, connecting solutions for human capital management, student and special programs, and business operations, with powerful analytics to empower educators. IntelliTrans transportation management software and services to bulk and break-bulk commodity producers. PowerPlan financial and compliance management software and solutions to large complex companies in asset-intensive industries. Strata cloud-based financial analytics, performance management software, and data solutions used by healthcare providers, higher education, and financial institutions for financial planning, decision support, and continuous cost improvement. Vertafore cloud-based software to the property and casualty insurance industry, including agency management, compliance, workflow, and data solutions. Network Software Our Network Software segment had net revenues of $1,439.4 for the year ended December 31, 2023, representing 23.3% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by businesses that comprise the Network Software segment: ConstructConnect cloud-based data, collaboration, and estimating automation software solutions to a network of pre-construction contractors. 5 DAT electronic marketplaces that connect available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight throughout North America. Foundry software technologies used to deliver visual effects and 3D content for the entertainment and digital design industries. iPipeline cloud-based software solutions for the life insurance and financial services industries. iTradeNetwork electronic marketplaces and supply chain software that connect food suppliers, distributors, and vendors, primarily in the perishable food sector. Loadlink electronic marketplaces that connect available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight throughout Canada. MHA health care service and software solutions to alternate site health care markets. SHP data analytics and benchmarking information for the post-acute healthcare provider marketplace. SoftWriters software solutions to pharmacies that primarily serve the long-term care marketplace. Technology Enabled Products Our Technology Enabled Products segment had net revenues of $1,551.5 for the year ended December 31, 2023, representing 25.1% of our total net revenues. Below is a description of the products offered by businesses that comprise the Technology Enabled Products segment: CIVCO Medical Solutions accessories focused on guidance and infection control for ultrasound procedures. FMI dispensers and metering pumps which are utilized in a broad range of applications requiring precision fluid control. Inovonics high-performance wireless sensor networks and solutions for a variety of applications. IPA automated surgical scrub and linen dispensing equipment for healthcare providers. Neptune water meters, enabling water utilities to remotely monitor their customers utilizing Automatic Meter Reading (AMR), Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) technologies, and cloud-based software supporting meter data management. Northern Digital optical and electromagnetic precision measurement systems for medical and industrial applications. rf IDEAS RFID card readers used in numerous identity access management applications across a variety of vertical markets. Verathon medical devices that enable airway management, including bronchoscopes and video laryngoscopes, and bladder volume measurement solutions for healthcare providers. Materials and Suppliers We believe most materials and supplies we use are readily available from numerous sources and suppliers throughout the world. However, some components and sub-assemblies are currently available from only a limited number of suppliers for which we regularly investigate and identify alternative sources where possible. We also believe these conditions affect our competitors. Remaining Performance Obligations and Backlog Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which work has not been performed, excluding unexercised contract options. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, total remaining performance obligations were $4,612.6 and $4,214.0, respectively. 6 Backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations expected to be recognized as revenue within the next 12 months. Backlog was $3,156.6 at December 31, 2023 and $2,912.6 at December 31, 2022. Distribution and Sales Distribution and sales occur primarily through direct sales offices, manufacturers representatives, resellers, and distributors. Governmental Regulations We face extensive government regulation around the world relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, and distribution of our software, services, and products. The following sections describe certain significant regulations to which we are subject, but these are not the only regulations with which our businesses must comply. For a description of risks related to the regulations that our businesses are subject to, please refer to