Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 110 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 111 Item 11. Executive Compensation 111 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 111 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 111 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 111 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 112 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 Signatures 117 Table of Contents Unless the context requires otherwise, all references in this Form 10-K to Republic, the Company, we, us and our refer to Republic Services, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Republic is one of the largest providers of environmental services in the United States, as measured by revenue. As of December 31, 2021, we operated facilities in 41 states through 356 collection operations, 239 transfer stations, 198 active landfills, 71 recycling processing centers, 3 treatment, recovery and disposal facilities, 3 treatment, storage and disposal facilities (TSDF), 6 salt water disposal wells, and 7 deep injection wells. We are engaged in 77 landfill gas-to-energy and other renewable energy projects and had post-closure responsibility for 124 closed landfills. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1996. We believe the total addressable environmental services market in which we operate generates approximately $91 billion of annual revenue, which includes the $67 billion U.S. recycling and solid waste industry and $24 billion of the broader environmental services industry. Within our recycling and solid waste business, we prioritize investments in market verticals with above average growth rates and higher return profiles. Environmental services remains fragmented which provides consolidation opportunities to drive scale. We believe we will be able to further expand our addressable market into other segments of the environmental services industry over time by leveraging our differentiated capabilities. Our operations are national in scope, but the physical collection and recycling or disposal of material is very much a local business and the dynamics and opportunities differ in each of our markets. By combining local operating management with standardized business practices, we drive greater overall operating efficiency across the Company while maintaining day-to-day operating decisions at the local level, closest to the customer. Our purpose-driven vision is to partner with customers to create a more sustainable world. We believe that our products and services are valuable to our customers and essential for long-term sustainability. We further believe our focus and commitment to sustainability allows us to attract and retain the best talent, win more customers, increase customer loyalty, and ultimately drive higher revenue and profits. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the global economy as well as certain aspects of our operations and performance. During this time, we continued to provide essential services to our customers while prioritizing the health and safety of our employees. In April 2020, we launched our Committed to Serve initiative to help our employees, customers and communities across the United States. The impact of COVID-19 on our business and associated costs are discussed in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Foundational Elements Our strategy is designed to generate profitable growth by sustainably managing our customers needs, and it is underpinned by three foundational elements (1) our market position, (2) our operating model, and (3) our people and talent agenda. Market Position Our goal is to develop the best vertically integrated market position to enable us to build density and improve returns. We strive to have a number one or number two market position in each of the markets we serve, or have a clear path on how we will achieve a leading market position over time. In situations where we cannot establish a leading market position, or where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we may decide to divest certain assets and reallocate resources to other markets. We have a robust market planning process to identify opportunities to grow internally through capital investments and infrastructure development, and externally through acquisitions and public-private partnerships. Additionally, our market planning process allows us to analyze market conditions and proactively adjust to trends as they emerge, including the effects of demographic shifts, and changes in the market and the competitive landscape. Internal Growth Volume Growth - We believe volumes are driven by population growth, household formation and new business formation. Volume growth through increases in our customer base and service offerings is the most capital efficient method to grow our business. We seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting recyclable and solid waste material under residential collection contracts with municipalities, exclusive franchise agreements, and small-container and 2 Table of Contents large-container contracts. We also look to enter into long-term disposal and recycling processing contracts with municipalities and other third parties. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we can grow our contracted revenue base at a rate consistent with the underlying economic growth in these markets. In addition, by securing long-term agreements, we are better able to help ensure we earn an appropriate return on the capital deployed. Price Increases - We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an appropriate return on our substantial investments in vehicles, equipment, landfills, transfer stations and recycling processing centers. Expansion of Recycling Capabilities - Based on the most recent U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data, we believe approximately 32% of municipal solid waste is recycled and/or composted. We expect that percentage to increase over the long-term as communities enhance and expand their recycling programs for their residents. As a key player in the circular economy, we are strategically focused on expanding recycling volume through innovative material handling processes and programs to help our customers achieve their goals related to sustainability and environmentally sound waste practices while also generating an appropriate return. We will continue to look for opportunities to expand or enhance our recycling capabilities in markets where customers are demanding these services and demonstrating a willingness to pay, and we can earn an appropriate return on our investment. Infrastructure Development - We seek to identify opportunities to further our position as a vertically integrated service provider in markets where we are not fully integrated. Our goal is to create market-specific, vertically integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations, landfills and recycling processing centers. Where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations, recycling processing centers and landfills that would vertically integrate our waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. Additionally, we seek opportunities to expand and permit new airspace at our existing landfills in order to replace airspace consumed. Development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquisitions, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. Through landfill and fleet innovation, recycling and circularity of key materials, and renewable energy production, we re committed to environmentally responsible operations that increase our efficiency as well as our ability to partner with customers to create a more sustainable world. External Growth Acquisitions and Public-Private Partnerships - Our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on acquiring privately held recycling and solid waste companies and environmental solutions businesses that complement our existing business platform. We believe our ability to successfully complete these acquisitions is enhanced by the challenges facing many privately-held companies, including increasing competition in the environmental services industry, increasing capital requirements due to changes in regulatory requirements and technology and the limited number of exit strategies for privately-held companies. We also evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly-owned companies. We continue to invest in value-enhancing acquisitions in existing markets. Given our free cash flow, availability under our credit facilities and our ability to access the public capital markets, we have the financial flexibility to make additional acquisitions that will complement our existing business platform, including larger acquisitions if the right opportunities present themselves. We also focus on growth through public-private partnerships, which include the recycling and waste operations and facilities of municipal and other local governments. We believe over time we have an opportunity to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities and other local governments, as they seek to raise capital and/or reduce risk. We realize synergies from consolidating businesses into our existing operations, whether through acquisitions or public-private partnerships, which allows us to reduce capital expenditures and expenses associated with truck routing, personnel, fleet maintenance, inventories and back-office administration. Operating Model Our operating model allows us to deliver a consistent, high-quality service to all our customers through the Republic Way: One Way. Everywhere. Every Day . This approach of developing standardized processes with rigorous controls and tracking allows us to leverage our scale and deliver durable operational excellence. The Republic Way is the key to harnessing the best of what we do as operators and translating that across all facets of our business. Key elements of our operating model are our organizational structure, safety, fleet automation, compressed natural gas vehicles, fleet electrification and standardized maintenance. 3 Table of Contents Organizational Structure A key enabler of the Republic Way operating model is our organizational structure that fosters a high performance culture by maintaining 360-degree accountability and full profit and loss responsibility with local management, supported by a functional structure to provide subject matter expertise. This structure allows us to take advantage of our scale by coordinating functionally across all of our markets, while empowering local management to respond to unique market dynamics. Through this operating model, we have rolled out several productivity and cost control initiatives designed to deliver the best service possible to our customers in an efficient and environmentally sound way. Safety Republic is dedicated to the safety of our employees, customers and the communities we serve. We have a dedicated team of safety professionals at our corporate headquarters and in our field operations, the leader of which reports directly to our Chief Operating Officer. Due to the nature of our industry, we make safety a top priority and we recognize and reward employees for outstanding safety records. Over the past 10 years, our safety performance (based on OSHA recordable rates) has been 38% better than the industry average. Our Think, Choose, Live slogan encapsulates our everyday safety messaging to our employees to: Think about what you are doing, Choose the safe answer, and Live to go home to your family. With the phrase printed on numerous items, including hard hats and the equipment our employees touch, there are constant reminders for employees to go home in the same condition in which they came to work. Our goal is to ensure every one of our employees returns home safely each night. Through our Safety Amplified program, we are providing even more tools and driving even greater awareness to help our teams better execute our safety standards. Regular training, multifaceted programs and strategic partnerships are key components to this program. It is simple by design and comprised of actions and activities that ensure safety is embedded in all we do. The program includes six initiatives to help us achieve our goal to have zero employee fatalities and reduce our OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate. Focus Together: This effort is the very core of our safety program and is designed to help frontline employees eliminate the six most common types of serious incidents. Lead Together: We provide best-in-class communication channels and advanced training techniques for all frontline supervisors and managers to help them guide their teams. Partner Together: Staying safe requires involvement by employees at all levels. We ve increased leadership visits with frontline employees and supervisors to support each divisions safety goals. Celebrate Together: We take pride in recognizing employees who demonstrate a relentless commitment to safety. Employees with the best driving records are eligible for the industry s most prestigious award, the National Waste Recycling Association s Driver of the Year. Republic drivers have won 72% of the Driver of the Year awards issued for the large truck category since 2009. In addition, our best drivers are recognized and rewarded with competing in our National Road-EO competition. Analyze Together: We analyze real-time data to make short- and long-term decisions and identify opportunities for improvement. Examples include analysis of roadway awareness training, data mapping and other employee protection and preparedness insights. Innovate Together: We employ the latest technologies in our fleet, including automation, rear cameras, in-cab backup alarms, and event recording systems and take a data-driven approach to support our employees. We re also working with equipment manufacturers to incorporate safety elements such as seat belt alarms, blind spot awareness, lane departure alarms and other potentially lifesaving equipment in our fleet. We believe our Safety Amplified program will provide additional benefits for our Company and stakeholders including: further strengthening relationships within the communities we service; enhancing customer trust; streamlining operational processes and increasing productivity; delivering a reputational advantage, including positioning our Company as an employer-of-choice; building and sustaining a safety culture in all areas of our business; and contributing to employee engagement. For more information regarding our safety performance, refer to our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) report, which can be found at republicservices.com/sustainability. The information contained on our website shall not be deemed 4 Table of Contents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other filing we make under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Fleet Automation Approximately 77% of our residential routes have been converted to automated single-driver trucks. By converting our residential routes to automated service, we reduce labor costs, improve driver productivity, decrease emissions and create a safer work environment for our employees. Additionally, communities using automated vehicles have higher participation rates in recycling programs, thereby complementing our initiative to expand our recycling capabilities. Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Vehicles Approximately 21% of our fleet operates on CNG. Approximately 13% of our replacement vehicle purchases during 2021 were CNG vehicles. We believe using CNG vehicles provides us a competitive advantage in communities with strict clean emission initiatives that focus on protecting the environment. Although upfront capital costs are higher, using CNG vehicles reduces our overall fleet operating costs through lower fuel expenses. As of December 31, 2021, we operated over 40 CNG fueling stations. Fleet Electrification We are taking a leadership position in electric technology innovation for our fleet. This is a critical step toward reducing our environmental impact through lower fleet emissions, and we believe it will also improve our total cost of ownership while providing a competitive advantage in certain communities. We are partnering with multiple manufacturers to pilot electric-powered recycling and solid waste trucks. As electric vehicle technology continues to develop, we will further deploy electrification to our fleet. Standardized Maintenance Based on an industry trade publication, we operate the fifth largest vocational fleet in the United States. As of December 31, 2021, our average fleet age in years, by line of business, was as follows: Approximate Number of Vehicles Approximate Average Age Residential 7,000 7.3 Small-container 4,900 6.7 Large-container 4,500 8.8 Total 16,400 7.6 OneFleet, our standardized vehicle maintenance program, enables us to use best practices for fleet management, truck care and maintenance. Through standardization of core functions, we believe we can minimize variability in our maintenance processes, resulting in higher vehicle quality and a lower environmental footprint, while extending the average service life of our fleet. Additionally, our focus on preventative maintenance is improving the reliability of our fleet and enabling us to provide superior service to our customers, differentiating us from our competition. People and Talent Agenda Being human-centered is at the core of our robust people and talent agenda. We strive to maintain an environment that attracts and retains the best talent. Our over 35,000 full-time employees are a critical component in successfully executing our strategy and running our operations. We aspire to always be a company where the best people, with exceptional talents and diverse backgrounds, can thrive, and we foster a culture of caring where people feel respected, supported, and encouraged to bring their best selves to work. We are dedicated to driving our people and talent agenda, which includes (1) representing the diversity of the communities we serve and sustaining a safe and inclusive culture, (2) maintaining a highly engaged workforce, (3) developing our talent through learning and development experiences, and (4) offering rewards that attract and retain the best workforce. We review key progress metrics such as representation, engagement and turnover and regularly report on these metrics to our Board of Directors. This level of reporting holds all of our leaders accountable for the continued growth and development of our people. Inclusion and Diversity We believe the composite strength of our employees ideas built on their unique experiences and backgrounds is essential to our ability to meet and anticipate our customers needs. We are proud of the diversity of our front-line workforce, as it closely represents the demographics of the communities we serve. We are relentless in our focus to improve representation of diverse groups across all levels of the Company. Our commitment to inclusion and diversity starts at the top of our organization, as outlined in our Mission of Supporting an Inclusive Culture (MOSAIC), established in 2013, and supported by the MOSAIC Council. The MOSAIC Council consists of leaders from across the Company who serve as ambassadors and thought partners 5 Table of Contents for inclusion and diversity. This enables us to continue to develop new strategies and activities that are tied to the needs of our employees, customers and business with the goal of creating an even more inclusive work environment and diverse workforce. We support inclusion and connectivity for our diverse populations through our business resource groups, including Women of Republic, VALOR (Veterans, Advocacy, Learning, Outreach and Recruiting), and the Black Employee Network (BEN). Given the representation of LatinX employees in our workforce and the desire to create community amongst this valued population, we launched Unidos in the summer of 2021. While business resource groups help to drive a more inclusive environment for our diverse populations, we remain committed to driving inclusion for all of our employees. As the nation continues to experience inflection points in race relations, we are well-positioned to address the call for social justice because it aligns with our human centered values and is reinforced by our existing commitment to advancing and supporting Black employees and Black communities. In 2021, we continued our focus on providing programs and virtual events to advance awareness, education and connectivity across our workforce. Our Let s Talk series, which has had over 10,000 virtual attendees, is aimed at furthering our employees' understanding and empathy related to the topic of inclusion and diversity. In conjunction with this series, we launched "Let's Connect" an opportunity for employees and diverse groups to share their unique experiences and perspectives directly with our CEO. We will continue to offer opportunities to help our employees conduct courageous and authentic conversations with one another, and we are committed to maintaining a work environment where people of all backgrounds feel valued and safe to share their perspectives. Employee Engagement We believe an engaged workforce is a key element of our success as engaged employees deliver better customer service and are more productive. We measure employee engagement through a third-party survey, assessing employee sentiment on a variety of topics such as pride for the Company, job satisfaction and intention to stay. Our data reinforces that business units with a highly engaged workforce experience less turnover. We also found that employees whose leaders are highly inclusive are more likely to speak up and share their perspective. Regularly hearing from our employees allows us to understand how to support and strengthen an exceptional employee experience. Our goal is to achieve and maintain employee engagement scores at or above 88% by 2030. Our employee engagement score was approximately 84% in 2021, which is above national benchmarks by almost eight points. Approximately 98% of our employees participated in the engagement survey process in October 2021 which represented an all-time high participation rate, compared to approximately 92% in April 2021. Employee engagement is a core part of our business strategy, which is why we compensate our General Managers on their employee engagement scores. This reinforces our commitment for leaders to listen and take action on employee feedback and helps to ensure that our leaders are held accountable and rewarded for their efforts to drive a more engaged workforce. Talent Development We are committed to providing our employees with opportunities to develop throughout their careers. Our programs, including new hire onboarding and new leader assimilation, reinforce our Company values, expectations, and business approach. Targeted development experiences support the growth of people in key roles, including Driver Training, Technician Training, Supervisor Training, Sales Acceleration, General Manager Onboarding, and more. We believe these programs provide the fundamental skills necessary to be successful across roles. In order to meet the specific needs of the business, in July 2021, we opened a comprehensive Technical Training Institute where we are able to train and develop technicians. In 2021, 20 technicians participated in the program. Our leadership programs are a critical part of growing our people. We remain focused on attracting, hiring and developing early career leaders. Our rotational training and development programs, including our General Manager Acceleration Program and Leadership Trainee Program, help us attract, develop and advance a diverse and talented pool of individuals from across our organization. Our Executive Leadership team sponsors these programs, providing visibility and support for the career advancement of our high-potential talent across the organization. Since the beginning of these programs in 2017, approximately 60 leaders have graduated into leadership positions. We have found that these programs and experiences help ensure that the next generation of leaders build the necessary skills and experiences to be successful in their roles today, and in the future. We continue to leverage innovative training methods using mixed mediums to deliver trainings and instruction to our employees across the country. We remain committed to expanding employee participation in learning programs that are relevant to our business strategy and contribute to career advancement for our employees. As we continue to grow as a Company, we are investing in new technology and tools so employees can do their jobs safely and effectively, while providing day-to-day stability and professional development. Rewards We offer compensation and benefits that help improve our employees' overall financial, physical, and emotional wellbeing, as well as recognize hard work with opportunities to grow. Our commitment to paying market competitive wages enables us to 6 Table of Contents attract and hire talent all across the country, including an expansion of many opportunities to work remotely. Our approach to paying for performance supports our focus on pay equity. Our compensation packages are designed to provide employees with a stable and livable wage and growth potential. Our focus on wellness also provides our employees with access to preventative care, advice on financial planning and support for mental health, contributing to our efforts to provide a total rewards package that improves and enhances the lives of our employees. Differentiating Capabilities To effectively execute our strategic plan, we prioritize the development and investment in capabilities that will differentiate us in the marketplace. These capabilities include (1) customer zeal, (2) digital, and (3) sustainability. Customer Zeal The goal of customer zeal is to drive customer loyalty by offering differentiated products and services specifically designed to meet our customers needs. We believe this increases customer satisfaction and willingness to pay for a higher value service. Customer Zeal is a cultural commitment to enable and empower our employees to own their role in the customer experience. To help our sales team identify specific customer needs and configure the right offering, we use a Priority Based Selling (PBS) technique and our Capture pricing tool nationwide. PBS enables us to identify and segment customers buying priorities, and attract customers that are willing to pay for enhanced offerings. Capture is a cloud-based pricing tool that creates a more professional sales experience, helps realize better pricing levels at the point of sale and provides enhanced controls over the price quoting process. In response to our customers requests, we expanded our suite of products to include electronics recycling and universal recycling. For those services that we don t provide, we fulfill demand through our alliance partnerships while maintaining the customer facing relationship. To help ensure a consistent customer experience, we invested in our customer service capabilities and our centralized Customer Resource Center. This state-of-the-art center and the technology it employs provide our customer service employees with the tools and capabilities they need to provide better levels of service though a variety of communication channels. These centers enhance the customer experience and provide us a platform to reduce the cost to service our customers. To help ensure our efforts are making an impact and building customer loyalty, we solicit feedback from our customers, including Net Promoter Score , so that every General Manager receives recent, relevant feedback that allows him or her the ability to reach out to customers directly and address issues immediately. Digital The goal of our digital priority is to allow us to provide a consistent experience across our business while enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information. By increasing the ease of use and functionality of our web-based market presence, we believe we enhance customer satisfaction, interaction, and connectivity while lowering our costs. These tools reinforce to our customers that they can rely on us to handle their recycling and waste service needs in a way that is easy and 