Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 112 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 112 Item 9B. Other Information 113 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 Item 11. Executive Compensation 114 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 114 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 115 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 119 Signatures 120 Table of Contents Unless the context requires otherwise, all references in this Form 10-K to Republic, the Company, we, us and our refer to Republic Services, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Republic is the second largest provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, disposal, recycling, and environmental services in the United States, as measured by revenue. As of December 31, 2019, we operated facilities in 41 states and Puerto Rico through 340 collection operations, 212 transfer stations, 189 active landfills, 79 recycling processing centers, 7 treatment, recovery and disposal facilities, 15 salt water disposal wells, and 4 deep injection wells. We are engaged in 75 landfill gas-to-energy and renewable energy projects and had post-closure responsibility for 130 closed landfills. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1996. Our operations are national in scope, but the physical collection and recycling or disposal of waste is very much a local business and the dynamics and opportunities differ in each of our markets. By combining local operating management with standardized business practices, we drive greater overall operating efficiency across the Company while maintaining day-to-day operating decisions at the local level, closest to the customer. The Five Pillars of Our Strategy - Profitable Growth through Differentiation We believe that our products and services are valuable, and that by developing a superior team and delivering superior products, we can differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Differentiation allows us to attract and retain the best talent, win more customers, increase customer loyalty, and ultimately drive higher revenue and profits. Our strategy of Profitable Growth through Differentiation is built on five key pillars, including (1) market position, (2) operating model, (3) people and talent agenda, (4) customer zeal, and (5) digital platform. Market Position The goal of our market position pillar is to develop the best vertically integrated market position to enable us to build density and improve returns. We strive to have a number one or number two market position in each of the markets we serve, or have a clear path on how we will achieve a leading market position over time. In situations where we cannot establish a leading market position, or where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we may decide to divest certain assets and reallocate resources to other markets. We have a robust market planning process to identify opportunities to grow internally through capital investments and infrastructure development, and externally through acquisitions and public-private partnerships. Additionally, our market planning process allows us to analyze market conditions and proactively adjust to trends as they emerge, including the effects of demographic shifts, and changes in the market and the competitive landscape. Internal Growth Volume Growth - We believe waste volumes are driven by population growth, household formation and new business formation. Volume growth through increases in our customer base and service offerings is the most capital efficient method to grow our business. We seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste and recyclable materials under residential collection contracts with municipalities, exclusive franchise agreements, and small-container and large-container contracts. We also look to enter into long-term disposal and recycling processing contracts with municipalities and other third parties. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we can grow our contracted revenue base at a rate consistent with the underlying economic growth in these markets. In addition, by securing long-term agreements, we are better able to help ensure we earn an appropriate return on the capital deployed. Price Increases - We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an appropriate return on our substantial investments in vehicles, equipment, landfills, transfer stations and recycling processing centers. Expansion of Recycling Capabilities - Based on the most recent U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data, we believe approximately 35% of municipal solid waste is recycled, and we expect that percentage to increase over the long-term. While there are examples of communities cancelling their recycling programs, many more have committed to enhance and expand their recycling programs for their residents. We continue to focus on innovative material handling processes and programs to help our customers achieve their goals related to sustainability and environmentally sound waste practices while also generating an appropriate return. We will continue to look for 2 Table of Contents opportunities to expand or enhance our recycling capabilities in markets where customers are demanding these services and demonstrating a willingness to pay, and we can earn an appropriate return on our investment. Infrastructure Development - We seek to identify opportunities to further our position as a vertically integrated service provider in markets where we are not fully integrated. Our goal is to create market-specific, vertically integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations, landfills and recycling processing centers. Where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations, recycling processing centers and landfills that would vertically integrate our waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. Additionally, we seek opportunities to expand and permit new airspace at our existing landfills in order to replace airspace consumed. Development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquisitions, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. External Growth Acquisitions and Public-Private Partnerships - Our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on acquiring privately held solid waste and recycling companies that complement our existing business platform. We believe our ability to successfully complete these acquisitions is enhanced by the challenges facing many privately-held companies, including increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements due to changes in solid waste regulatory requirements and technology and the limited number of exit strategies for privately-held companies. We also evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly-owned waste companies. We continue to invest in value-enhancing acquisitions in existing markets. Generally, we expect to maintain a steady pace of tuck-in acquisition investment of approximately $200 million annually. Given our free cash flow, availability under our credit facilities and our ability to access the public capital markets, we have the financial flexibility to make additional acquisitions that will complement our existing business platform, including larger acquisitions if the right opportunities present themselves. We also focus on growth through public-private partnerships, which include the waste and recycling operations and facilities of municipal and other local governments. We believe over time we have an opportunity to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities and other local governments, as they seek to raise capital and/or reduce risk. We realize synergies from consolidating businesses into our existing operations, whether through acquisitions or public-private partnerships, which allows us to reduce capital expenditures and expenses associated with truck routing, personnel, fleet maintenance, inventories and back-office administration. Operating Model The goal of our operating model pillar is to deliver a consistent, high-quality service to all of our customers through the Republic Way: One Way. Everywhere. Every day . This approach of developing standardized processes with rigorous controls and tracking allows us to leverage our scale and deliver durable operational excellence. The Republic Way is the key to harnessing the best of what we do as operators and translating that across all facets of our business. Organizational Structure A key enabler of the Republic Way operating model is our organizational structure that fosters a high performance culture by maintaining 360-degree accountability and full profit and loss responsibility with local management, supported by a functional structure to provide subject matter expertise. This structure allows us to take advantage of our scale by coordinating functionally across all of our markets, while empowering local management to respond to unique market dynamics. Through this operating model, we have rolled out several productivity and cost control initiatives designed to deliver the best service possible to our customers in an efficient and environmentally sound way. Fleet Automation Approximately 76% of our residential routes have been converted to automated single-driver trucks. By converting our residential routes to automated service, we reduce labor costs, improve driver productivity, decrease emissions and create a safer work environment for our employees. Additionally, communities using automated vehicles have higher participation rates in recycling programs, thereby complementing our initiative to expand our recycling capabilities. 3 Table of Contents Fleet Conversion to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Approximately 20% of our fleet operates on natural gas. We expect to continue our gradual fleet conversion to CNG as part of our ordinary annual fleet replacement process. We believe a gradual fleet conversion is the most prudent approach to realizing the full value of our previous fleet investments. Approximately 13% of our replacement vehicle purchases during 2019 were CNG vehicles. We believe using CNG vehicles provides us a competitive advantage in communities with strict clean emission initiatives that focus on protecting the environment. Although upfront capital costs are higher, using CNG reduces our overall fleet operating costs through lower fuel expenses. As of December 31, 2019, we operated 39 CNG fueling stations. We are also monitoring and influencing a number of alternative fuel technologies, such as electrification, to improve the total cost of ownership of our fleet and reduce our environmental impact through lower fleet emissions. Standardized Maintenance Based on an industry trade publication, we operate the eighth largest vocational fleet in the United States. As of December 31, 2019, our average fleet age in years, by line of business, was as follows: Approximate Number of Vehicles Approximate Average Age Residential 6,900 7.4 Small-container 4,700 6.8 Large-container 4,400 8.6 Total 16,000 7.6 OneFleet, our standardized vehicle maintenance program, enables us to use best practices for fleet management, truck care and maintenance. Through standardization of core functions, we believe we can minimize variability in our maintenance processes, resulting in higher vehicle quality and a lower environmental footprint, while extending the average service life of our fleet. We believe operating a more reliable, greener, safer and more efficient fleet will lower our operating costs. Additionally, our focus on preventative maintenance is improving the reliability of our fleet and enabling us to provide superior service to our customers, differentiating us from our competition. The entire fleet was certified under OneFleet by the second quarter of 2017. People and Talent Agenda The goal of our people and talent agenda pillar is to create an environment to attract and retain the best talent. Our people continue to be the most critical component in successfully executing our strategy. We strive to make Republic a desirable place to work for our approximately 36,000 full-time employees by creating learning experiences and programs that develop, train, engage and motivate, as well as compensation and benefits that attract and retain the best workforce. With a focus on safety, employee engagement, learning and talent development, and inclusion and diversity, we aspire to be a company where the best people want to work and are engaged every day. Safety Republic is dedicated to the safety of our employees, customers and the communities we serve. We have a dedicated team of safety professionals at our corporate headquarters and in our field operations, the leader of which reports directly to our Chief Operating Officer. Due to the nature of our industry, we prioritize safety above all else and we recognize and reward employees for outstanding safety records. Over the past 10 years, our safety performance (based on OSHA recordable rates) has been 39% better than the industry average. Our Think, Choose, Live slogan encapsulates our everyday safety messaging to our employees to: Think about what you are doing, Choose the safe answer, and Live to go home to your family. With the phrase printed on numerous items, including hard hats and the equipment our employees touch, there are constant reminders for employees to go home in the same condition in which they came to work. Our goal is to ensure every one of our employees returns home safely each night. Through our Safety Amplified program, we are providing even more tools and driving even greater awareness to help our teams better execute our safety standards. Continual training, multifaceted programs and strategic partnerships are key components of our platform. It s simple by design and comprised of actions and activities that ensure safety is embedded in all we do. The program includes six initiatives to help us achieve our goal to have zero employee fatalities and reduce our OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate. Focus Together: This is our core safety program created for our frontline employees and designed to help eliminate six types of serious incidents. We recently extended the scope and reach of the program to include all employees across the company. Lead Together: This focus area brings best-in-class communication channels to our employees and includes advanced training techniques for all supervisors and managers. 4 Table of Contents Partner Together: We're initiating more frequent and higher quality leadership visits and interaction with frontline employees. These visits are designed to pull together leaders from a variety of departments to support the divisions' safety goals. Celebrate Together: We take pride in recognizing employees who demonstrate a relentless commitment to safety. Employees with the best driving records are eligible for the industry s most prestigious award, the National Waste Recycling Association s Driver of the Year. Republic drivers have won 70% of the Driver of the Year awards issued for the large truck category since 2009. In addition, our best drivers are recognized and rewarded with competing in our National Road-EO competition. Analyze Together: We analyze real-time data to make short- and long-term decisions and identify opportunities for improvement. Examples include analysis of roadway awareness training, data mapping and other employee protection and preparedness insights. With these analytics we will be able to make proactive safety decisions to generate better results. Innovate Together: We leverage the latest technologies, including automation, and take a data-driven approach to support our employees. These innovations include rear cameras, in-cab backing alarm systems and event recording systems throughout our fleet. We re also working with equipment manufacturers to incorporate safety elements such as seat belt alarms, blind spot awareness, lane departure alarms and other potentially lifesaving equipment in our fleet. We believe our Safety Amplified program will deliver additional positive impacts for our Company and stakeholders including: 1. Further strengthen relationships within the communities we service 2. Enhance customer trust 3. Streamline operational processes and increase productivity 4. Deliver a reputational advantage, including positioning our Company as an employer-of-choice 5. Build and sustain a safety culture in all areas of our business 6. Contribute to employee engagement Employee Engagement We believe an engaged and diverse workforce is the greatest indicator of our success. We have found that business units with a highly engaged workforce experience approximately 59% less turnover. Additionally, we know that engaged employees deliver better customer service and are more productive and safe drivers. We measure employee engagement annually through a third party survey and compensate our General Managers on their employee engagement scores. We improved our employee engagement score from 85% in 2018 to 86% in 2019 and continued to outperform industry benchmarks. Learning and Talent Development We are committed to developing our employees throughout their careers. Targeted onboarding experiences, including our Driver Training Center, Sales Acceleration, General Manager and Operations Onboarding programs, focus on providing the fundamental skills each employee needs to succeed in his or her role. Our Leadership Trainee program, an 18-month rotational experience for recent college graduates, is another example of our commitment to providing opportunities for growth. Developing our leaders is also a critical part of our people and talent agenda. From our Leadership Fundamentals program, a program for all leaders of people, to our Leadership Trainee and General Manager Acceleration programs for early career leaders, we have developed programs and experiences to help ensure that as our leaders progress, they are accumulating the skills necessary to be successful at each level. Our Leadership Fundamentals program was awarded the 2018 Brandon Hall Group Excellence award for best advance in leadership development. Our Leadership Trainee program has enabled us to place new leaders in key positions in the field and at our Phoenix headquarters. The General Manager Acceleration program is designed to enable its participants to become the next generation of General Managers with a deep knowledge of the business and the skills necessary to build and lead successful teams. Ongoing support for leaders is provided by way of a bi-weekly leadership video-cast that reinforces the concepts from our leadership trainings, challenges employees to continue to apply the key learnings, and offers ongoing tools for addressing the more seasonal aspects of leading throughout the year. Over the last five years, more than 5,200 leaders have completed our Leadership Fundamentals program, creating a common language and toolkit for how we coach and develop employees. Our leadership programs are the driving force behind our talent engine and are critical to our business strategy. We are developing leaders that are strategically minded and foster an inclusive culture. 5 Table of Contents Inclusion and Diversity We strive to create an inclusive and diverse culture where all employees can thrive and feel welcomed and valued. Our Mission of Supporting an Inclusive Culture (M.O.S.A.I.C.) is driven by our office of inclusion and diversity and supported by the M.O.S.A.I.C. Council. Our approach enables us to continue to develop new strategies and activities to create a more inclusive work environment and diverse workforce. Through these efforts, we can leverage our best thinking to improve our culture and better serve our customers. In 2017, the M.O.S.A.I.C. Council launched the Women of Republic business resource group, which was developed to provide a platform to empower members and enrich a diverse culture that values, develops and advances women in leadership. Advancing women in leadership roles will provide greater diversity of thought and perspective which has been proven to drive better decision making. In 2019, we launched our Veterans, Advocacy, Learning, Outreach and Recruiting (V.A.L.O.R.) business resource group, which is focused on creating an inclusive culture that attracts, retains, develops and values veterans and their families throughout the organization and in our communities. We believe there is no better way to protect our planet than to recruit and hire the heroes who have protected our country. We actively recruit and hire veterans - those transitioning from military life as well as those long discharged from active duty. We value the skills, experience and operational excellence they bring to our organization, as well as their commitment to a better tomorrow. Historically, we have had great success hiring veterans. In 2019, approximately 2,500 veterans served in a variety of roles, ranging from drivers to senior leaders. In 2020 and beyond, we expect to launch additional business resource groups. Customer Zeal The goal of our customer zeal pillar is to drive customer loyalty by offering differentiated products and services specifically designed to meet our customers needs. We believe this increases customer loyalty and willingness to pay for a higher value service. To help our sales team identify specific customer needs and configure the right offering, we use a Priority Based Selling (PBS) technique and our Capture pricing tool nationwide. PBS enables us to identify and segment customers buying priorities, and attract customers that are willing to pay for enhanced offerings. Capture is a cloud-based pricing tool that creates a more professional sales experience, helps realize better pricing levels at the point of sale and provides enhanced controls over the price quoting process. In response to our customers requests, we expanded our suite of products to include electronics recycling with BlueGuard , universal recycling and All-in-One Office . For those services that we don t provide, we fulfill demand through our alliance partnerships while maintaining the customer facing relationship. To help ensure a consistent customer experience, we invested in our customer service capabilities and consolidated over 100 customer service locations into three Customer Resource Centers. These state-of-the-art facilities and the technology deployed provide our customer service employees with the tools and capabilities they need to provide better levels of service though a variety of communication channels. The state-of-the-art centers enhance the customer experience and provide us a platform to reduce the cost to service our customers. To help ensure our efforts are making an impact and building customer loyalty, we solicit feedback from our customers, including net promoter score, so that every General Manager receives recent, relevant feedback that allows him or her the ability to reach out to customers directly and address issues immediately. Digital Platform The goal of our digital platform pillar is to allow us to provide a consistent experience across our business while enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information. We are responding to our customers' requests for options to do business with us digitally. By increasing the ease of use and functionality of our web-based market presence, we believe we enhance customer satisfaction, interaction, and connectivity while lowering our costs. These tools reinforce to our customers that they can rely on us to handle their recycling and waste service needs in a way that is easy and convenient for them. Our website and mobile app are online account management tools, allowing customers access to their accounts and our services. Our e-commerce sales channel allows customers to secure services on a real-time basis, provides capabilities to meet our customer's evolving buying preferences, and provides a lower cost sales channel. 6 Table of Contents We are also leveraging technology to digitally connect our customers, drivers, dispatchers, supervisors and trucks via our "RISE" dispatch platform and in-cab technology. We are utilizing an agile iterative approach to the development and multi-year roll-out of this technology to ensure durable adoption and an appropriate return on our investment. With the roll-out of this technology we will improve productivity through more real-time routing information and data visualization tools; increase customer connectivity and enable automated service verification communications; and enhance the employee experience by providing better tools and technology designed around how our employees will interact with it. Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability At Republic, we believe in the preservation of our Blue Planet - to support a cleaner, safer and healthier world. We re passionate about our role as responsible stewards of our nation s waste. In 2014, we identified five sustainability elements that remain deeply engrained within our business: Safety, People, Operations, Materials Management and Communities. These elements continue to guide our short- and long-term sustainability and business goals. It was at this time that we also launched our sustainability platform and original sustainability goals. We achieved the three time-bound sustainability goals set in 2014, which included developing two landfill gas-to-energy projects per year by 2018; adding an additional 150,000 tons or more per year of recycling capability by 2018; and reducing absolute fleet emissions by 3% from our direct operational impacts by 2018. As we grow, so does our opportunity to make a meaningful positive impact on the environment and society. Over the past year the Company undertook a comprehensive approach to the development of additional sustainability goals that build on these past achievements. This included an analysis of global trends, identification of our business model dependencies and engagement with key stakeholders. In 2019 we unveiled additional, long-term goals that are ambitious by design and address critical global macro-trends as well as our greatest opportunities to create value at scale. Each of them is aligned with one of the Company s five sustainability elements, and together they are designed to significantly benefit the environment and society while enhancing the foundation and profitability of our business for the long-term. Our Blue Planet: 2030 Goals Safety Amplified: Zero annual employee fatalities and reduce OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) to 2.0 or less by 2030 Engaged Workforce: Achieve and maintain employee engagement scores at or above 88 percent by 2030 Climate Leadership: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 35 percent by 2030 (1) , aligned with SBTi (1) Circular Economy: Increase recovery of key materials by 40 percent on a combined basis by 2030 (1) Regenerative Landfills: Increase biogas sent to beneficial reuse by 50 percent by 2030 (1) Charitable Giving: Positively impact 20 million people by 2030 Republic is the first U.S. recycling and solid waste services provider to have its emissions reduction target approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (2) . We also aligned our new sustainability goals with the United Nations General Assembly s Sustainable Development Goals. These include the following United Nations initiatives: (8) Growth, (11) Sustainable Cities and Communities, (12) Responsible Consumption and Production and (13) Climate Action. In addition to setting new goals in 2019, we increased our level of sustainability disclosure and transparency. Our Board of Directors Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee was created in 2015. This committee has oversight responsibility with respect to our sustainability performance, our corporate responsibilities, our role as a socially responsible organization and our enterprise risks, including cyber security, environmental and climate related risks and opportunities, and reputational risks. The entire Board conducts a formal comprehensive review of the Company s performance in these areas on an annual basis. (1) Data points used 2017 as the baseline year. (2) SBTi, or Science Based Targets initiative, is a collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). 7 Table of Contents Cash Utilization Strategy We take a consistent and balanced approach to capital allocation to drive long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders. The predictability