Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 27 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. Reserved 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 114 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 114 Item 9B. Other Information 114 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 114 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 116 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 116 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 116 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 116 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 117 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 SIGNATURES 125 RTX Corporation and its subsidiaries names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and products and services designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of RTX Corporation and its subsidiaries. Names, abbreviations of names, logos, and products and services designators of other companies are either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of their respective owners. References to internet web sites in this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only. Information available through these web sites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General RTX Corporation is an aerospace and defense company that provides advanced systems and services for commercial, military, and government customers worldwide. The terms we, us, our, the Company , and RTX mean RTX Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates another meaning. We serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services segments of the aerospace industry. Our defense business serves both domestic and international customers as a prime contractor or subcontractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for military and government customers. RTX Corporation, formerly known as Raytheon Technologies, was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within Item 7 of this Form 10-K, including the information contained therein under the heading Business Overview. Business Segments As previously announced, effective July 1, 2023, we streamlined the structure of our core businesses to three principal business segments: Collins Aerospace (Collins), Pratt Whitney, and Raytheon, with each segment comprised of groups of similar operations. All segment information included in this Form 10-K is reflective of this new structure and prior period information has been recast to conform to our current period presentation. Collins Aerospace is a leading global provider of technologically advanced aerospace and defense products and aftermarket service solutions for civil and military aircraft manufacturers, commercial airlines, and regional, business and general aviation, as well as for defense and commercial space operations. Collins designs, manufactures and supplies electric power generation, management and distribution systems, environmental control systems, flight control systems, air data and aircraft sensing systems, engine control systems, engine components, engine nacelle systems, including thrust reversers and mounting pylons, interior and exterior aircraft lighting, aircraft cargo systems, evacuation systems, landing systems (including landing gear, wheels and braking systems), communication, navigation, surveillance systems, fire and ice detection and protection systems, actuation systems, integrated avionics, and propeller systems. Collins also designs, manufactures, and supports complete cabin interiors, including seating, oxygen systems, food and beverage preparation, storage and galley systems, lavatory, and wastewater management systems. Collins solutions support human space exploration with environmental control and power systems and extravehicular activity suits. Collins also provides connected aviation solutions and services through worldwide voice and data communication networks, airport systems and integrations, and air traffic management solutions. Collins supports government and defense customer missions by providing systems solutions for connected battlespace, test and training range systems, crew escape systems, and simulation and training. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support, training and fleet management solutions, asset management services, and information management services. Collins sells aerospace and defense products and services to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, the U.S. and foreign governments, defense contractors, maintenance, repair and overhaul providers, and independent distributors around the world. Collins largest commercial customers are Boeing and Airbus with combined sales, prior to discounts and incentives, of 19%, 18%, and 15% of total Collins segment sales in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. In 2023, Boeing selected Collins for key positions on their X-66A sustainable flight demonstrator aircraft. Collins also achieved long-term agreements with global airlines valued at $3.5 billion in the aggregate. Collins continued to receive numerous commercial air transport contract awards for airline selected buyer-furnished equipment installation for interiors, avionics, and wheels and brakes, and long-term FlightSense airline maintenance agreements. Collins was selected to serve as a key supplier of Command and Control (C2) capabilities as part of the Australian Air6500 effort. In addition, Collins continued its significant product development activities, including for major systems on the Airbus A321XLR, the Boeing 777X and 737 MAX 10, the Dassault Falcon 6X, and systems in support of the Boeing T-7A trainer and the Boeing VC-25B. Collins achievements also include an order milestone of 6,000 routers enabling digital transformation for global airlines. Collins also received a contract for a multi-system mobile Air Traffic Navigation Integration and Coordination System (ATNAVICS). Collins also continues to invest in sustainable technologies, such as opening an electric airborne power research center in Rockford, IL, where a prototype 1-megawatt motor was run at its design target limit in a ground test. Collins aircraft power and thermal management team demonstrated a full scale prototype cooling system which can deliver 2.5 times the current cooling capacity to enable potential F-35 block upgrades. 4 Table of Contents Pratt Whitney is among the world s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for commercial, military, business jet, and general aviation customers. Pratt Whitney s Commercial Engines and Military Engines businesses design, develop, produce, and maintain families of large engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft for commercial customers and for fighter, bomber, tanker, and transport aircraft for military customers. Pratt Whitney s small engine business, Pratt Whitney Canada, is among the world s leading suppliers of engines powering regional airlines, general and business aviation, as well as helicopters. Pratt Whitney also produces, sells, and services military and commercial auxiliary power units. Pratt Whitney provides fleet management services and aftermarket maintenance, repair, and overhaul services in all of these segments. Pratt Whitney sells products and services principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies, and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt Whitney s largest commercial customer by sales is Airbus, with sales, prior to discounts and incentives, of 48%, 33%, and 31% of total Pratt Whitney segment sales in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Segment sales in 2023 includes the reduction in sales associated with the Powder Metal Matter discussed below. Pratt Whitney produces the PW1000G Geared Turbofan (GTF) engine family, the first of which, the PW1100G-JM which powers the Airbus A320neo family of aircraft, entered into service in January 2016. The PW1000G GTF engine has demonstrated a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels and lower environmental emissions compared to prior-generation engines. GTF engine models also power the Airbus A220 and Embraer E-Jets E2 aircraft families. In addition, Pratt Whitney Canada s PW800 engine has been selected to exclusively power Gulfstream s G400, G500, and G600 business jets. Moreover, Dassault s Falcon 6X business jet entered into service in December 2023. Pratt Whitney produces and sustains the F135 engine for the U.S. government s F-35 Joint Program Office to power the single-engine F-35 Lightning II aircraft (commonly known as the Joint Strike Fighter) produced by Lockheed Martin. F135 propulsion system configurations are used for the U.S Air Force s F-35A, the U.S. Marine Corps F-35B, and the U.S. Navy s F-35C jets. F135 engines are also used on F-35 aircraft purchased by Joint Strike Fighter partner countries and other countries through foreign military sales arrangements. Pratt Whitney is also under contract to build engines for the U.S. Air Force s B-21 long-range strike bomber. The development of new engines and improvements to current production engines present important growth opportunities for Pratt Whitney. In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which revenues, costs, and risks are shared with third parties. At December 31, 2023, the interests of third-party collaboration participants in Pratt Whitney-directed jet engine programs ranged, in the aggregate per program, from 13% to 49%. See Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a description of our accounting for collaboration arrangements. Pratt Whitney also continues to enhance its programs through performance improvement measures and product base expansion, utilizing similar collaboration arrangements. In 2023, Pratt Whitney continued to reach significant milestones on the GTF engine program, including surpassing 1.4 billion gallons of fuel saved and 14 million metric tons of carbon emissions avoided since entry into service. The GTF Advantage configuration currently under testing is expected to extend the benefits of today s GTF engine, increasing takeoff thrust up to 8 percent and reducing fuel consumption by up to an additional 1 percent, maintaining the engine s lead as the most efficient powerplant for the A320neo family. The GTF family now powers more than 1,700 aircraft for 70 operators across three aircraft platforms: Airbus A320neo family, Airbus A220, and Embraer E-Jets E2. The GTF Advantage engine continues Federal Aviation Regulations Part 33 (FAR33) certification testing to operate with, and has successfully run on, 100% sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). In 2023, Pratt Whitney announced it will supply two GTF engines to power the Boeing X-66A sustainable flight demonstrator aircraft. As previously disclosed, Pratt Whitney determined this year that a rare condition in powder metal used to manufacture certain engine parts requires accelerated inspection of the PW1100G-JM fleet (herein referred to as Powder Metal Matter) as described further in Note 17: Commitments and Contingencies within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The year also saw the certification of the PW127XT-L engine for the ATR short takeoff and landing regional turboprop, marking the 200th engine certification for Pratt Whitney Canada. The Hybrid Electric Flight Demonstrator program, targeting a 30% fuel efficiency improvement and CO2 emissions reduction compared to existing advanced regional turboprops, successfully completed a rated power test of the demonstrator's 1 megawatt electric motor, developed by Collins. Textron Aviation announced that the PW545D engine was selected to power the new Cessna Citation Ascend business jet. In addition, Pratt Whitney received a significant number of contract awards for the F135 program, including a supplemental contract for Lots 15-17 and funding to continue work on an F135 engine core upgrade. The F135 program also added the Czech Republic as a new customer. In addition, significant activity continued on development programs including the Next Generation Adaptive Propulsion Program, as well as the first flight of the B-21 Raider, which is powered by Pratt Whitney engines. Pratt Whitney also secured substantial awards for sustainment of the F117, F119, and F100 engine fleets. 5 Table of Contents Raytheon is a leading provider of defensive and offensive threat detection, tracking and mitigation capabilities for U.S. and foreign government and commercial customers. Raytheon designs, develops, and provides advanced capabilities in integrated air and missile defense, smart weapons, missiles, advanced sensors and radars, interceptors, space-based systems, hypersonics, and missile defense across land, air, sea, and space. Raytheon provides air-to-air and air-to-ground sensors, command and control and weapons including the Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM), StormBreaker smart weapon, Long Range Stand Off Weapon (LRSO), and the Early Warning Radar. Raytheon also provides advanced naval sensors, command and control and weapons including classified naval radars, the Next Generation Jammer (NGJ), shipboard missiles including the Tomahawk and Standard Missile 6 (SM-6), air-to-air missiles such as the AIM-9X SIDEWINDER missile, and integrated systems such as the SPY-6 radar. In addition, Raytheon provides advanced systems and products that span layered land and integrated air and missile defense, including the proven Patriot air and missile defense system, the Lower Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor (LTAMDS), the National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System (NASAMS), Javelin, Excalibur, Stinger, and High-Energy Lasers. Raytheon also provides technologically advanced sensors, satellites and interceptors, including the AN/TPY-2 radar, and Standard Missile 3 (SM-3). Raytheon delivers integrated space solutions including sensors, mission orchestration, satellite control, and software. Raytheon also focuses on the development and early introduction of next-generation technologies and systems, including hypersonics, counter-hypersonics, next-generation radars, sensor experimentation and electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) advancements, and aligns products that use shared technologies, including fire control radars, surveillance radars, EO/IR, space-qualified satellite components, and electronics. Raytheon serves as a prime contractor or major subcontractor on numerous programs with the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), including the U.S. Navy, U.S. Army, Missile Defense Agency (MDA), U.S. Air Force, and U.S. Space Force, as well as programs with U.S federal civil customers, and other international and classified customers. In 2023, Raytheon achieved key advancements in, or received contract awards for, the following programs: Naval Strike Missile (NSM), the StormBreaker smart weapon, AIM-9X and the AMRAAM program, and certain advanced technologies, including classified programs and an advanced development program. Major new awards in 2023 include a NATO contract to provide Guidance Enhanced Missiles (GEM-T) for the NATO Support and Procurement Agency (NSPA), AMRAAM for the U.S. Air Force and Navy and international customers; a contract to provide Patriot Air Defense systems to Switzerland, a contract to provide StormBreaker for the U.S. Air Force and Navy, a contract to provide Next Generation Jammer Mid-Band (NGJ-MB) for the U.S. Navy and the government of Australia, a contract for the SPY-6 Hardware Production and Sustainment base for the U.S. Navy, a contract to provide Excalibur guided munitions for the U.S. Army and international customers, a contract to provide the Next Generation Short Range Interceptor (NGSRI) for the U.S. Army, and a contract to develop and produce Hypersonic Attack Cruise Missiles (HACM) for the U.S. Air Force. Sales and Customers We have substantial U.S. government sales, which we conduct through all three of our business segments. In addition, as a global company, all three of our business segments have substantial international sales. See Note 20: Segment Financial Data within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. U.S. Government Sales. Our U.S. government sales were as follows: (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Sales to the U.S. government (1) $ 31,628 $ 30,317 $ 31,177 Sales to the U.S. government as a percentage of total net sales (1) (2) 46 % 45 % 48 % (1) Excludes foreign military sales through the U.S. government. (2) 2023 total net sales includes the reduction in sales from the Powder Metal Matter. International Sales. Our sales to international customers, based on customer end use location, where known, were as follows: (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Total international sales $ 29,440 $ 25,884 $ 24,377 Total international sales as a percentage of total net sales (1) 43 % 39 % 38 % (1) 2023 total net sales includes the reduction in sales from the Powder Metal Matter. Backlog. Backlog, which is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations (RPO) for our sales contracts, represents the aggregate dollar value of firm orders for which products have not been provided or service has not been performed and 6 Table of Contents excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) type contracts). Total backlog was $196 billion and $175 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Of the total RPO as of December 31, 2023, we expect approximately 25% will be recognized as sales over the next 12 months. Competition All of our businesses are subject to significant competition. Our businesses compete on a variety of factors such as price, delivery schedule, past performance, reliability, customer service, product development, innovation, and technology. Many of our competitors have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. Further, some non-U.S. competitors receive government research and development assistance, marketing subsidies, and other assistance for their products beyond the assistance that may be available to us as a U.S. company. Our aerospace businesses compete with numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers, customers, and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. Customer selections of aircraft engines, components, and systems can also have a significant impact on future sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. government s and other governments policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Some competitors may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, and participation in financing arrangements in an effort to compete for the aftermarket associated with these products. Our defense businesses compete with numerous U.S. and foreign companies in most defense and government electronics, space, effectors, communications, command and control, technical services and support, and other segments. We frequently partner on defense programs with our major suppliers, some of whom are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. In addition, the competitive landscape in the defense industry continues to evolve with trends such as the continued increase in commercial competitors and increased government, particularly foreign, sponsorship of competitors on defense development programs. People As a global technology and innovation-driven company, we depend on a highly skilled workforce. Attracting, developing, advancing, and retaining the best talent is critical for us to execute our strategy and grow our business. Individuals with technical, engineering, and science backgrounds, experience, or interests are particularly important for us to succeed in the industries in which we compete. In addition, our defense business in particular requires qualified personnel with security clearances due to our classified programs. Shifts in macroeconomic, industry and labor market conditions may affect the environment for hiring and retaining employees with relevant qualifications and experience, and we have experienced, and continue to experience, challenges hiring highly qualified personnel. We continuously monitor labor market conditions and trends to mitigate hiring and retention issues. Governance. The Human Capital Compensation Committee of the RTX Board of Directors oversees the Company s human capital management. Workforce Demographics. As of December 31, 2023, our global employee population consisted of a total of approximately 185,000 employees, including approximately 57,000 engineering professionals and approximately 32,000 employees represented by labor unions and other employee representative bodies. Our employees are located in 51 countries, with 70% of our employees located in the U.S. As of December 31, 2023, women represented 25% of our global workforce and 33% of our global executives, and people of color represented 33% of our U.S. employee population and 17% of our U.S. executives. In addition, we had over 2,200 U.S. new hires who self-identified as veterans in 2023. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE I). We strive to advance a diverse, equitable, and inclusive work environment. We believe a work environment where all individuals are respected, valued, and supported enables them to focus on developing the most innovative solutions to our industry s greatest challenges. Our RTX DE I Pillars for Action framework is focused on workforce diversity, supplier diversity, community engagement, and DE I public policy. We have a DE I advisory board of senior leaders. We review diversity in talent development and promotion, employee compensation practices and succession planning, and embed DE I training into our leadership development programs. We have published our U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity EEO-1 report data as part of our Environmental Social Governance (ESG) Report. We have nine global employee resource groups (ERGs), which are volunteer-run organizations that are open to all employees and are intended to foster an inclusive culture. Approximately 16% of our workforce across 25 of the countries in which we operate are members of one or more of these ERGs. We also support science, technology, engineering, and mathematics initiatives for women and people of color, and provide opportunities to attract, develop and engage military veterans, people with disabilities, and the LGBTQ+ community. 7 Table of Contents Talent Acquisition, Development, and Retention; Employee Health and Safety. We continuously monitor the hiring, retention, and management of our employees by business and function with a focus to attract, develop, engage, advance, and retain the best talent in the industry. We aim to identify and hire quality, diverse external talent with skills matched to our Company s business needs. We invest in our workforce through internal and external education, training and development programs, and tuition assistance benefits. We also provide market competitive compensation and benefits. We recognize and reward performance during our annual review process. We regularly conduct succession planning to ensure that we continue to cultivate the leadership pipeline of talent needed to execute our business strategy. We solicit employee feedback on RTX s performance as an employer via confidential surveys in the pre-hire, active, and exit stages of employment, and use those results to improve our workplace and employee experience. These surveys cover various topics related to employee engagement, inclusion, and belonging. We have industry-leading health and safety programs to help maintain a safe work environment for all employees and mitigate workplace incidents, risks, and hazards. We review and monitor our performance and encourage employee input to identify opportunities to reduce incidents. Moreover, we have industry-leading ethics and compliance programs to help mitigate associated employee risks. We also provide health and wellness benefits and support flexible work arrangements for our employees. Additional information regarding our human capital strategy is available in our People section of our ESG Report that can be found on our company website. Information on our website, including our ESG Report, is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. For information on the risks related to our human capital resources, see