Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Reserved 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 121 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 121 Item 9B. Other Information 121 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 121 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 122 Item 11. Executive Compensation 123 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 123 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 124 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 124 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 125 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 131 SIGNATURES Raytheon Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and products and services designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of Raytheon Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. Names, abbreviations of names, logos, and products and services designators of other companies are either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of their respective owners. References to internet web sites in this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only. Information available through these web sites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Raytheon Technologies Corporation is an aerospace and defense company that provides advanced systems and services for commercial, military and government customers worldwide. The terms we, us, our, Raytheon Technologies, RTC and the Company mean Raytheon Technologies Corporation, unless the context indicates another meaning. We serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services segments of the aerospace industry. Our defense business serves both domestic and international customers as a prime contractor or subcontractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for military and government customers. Raytheon Technologies, formerly known as United Technologies Corporation (UTC), was incorporated in Delaware in 1934 and represents the combination of UTC s aerospace businesses and Raytheon Company through the Separation Transactions and Distributions and Raytheon Merger completed in April 2020, as described in more detail below. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within Item 7 of this Form 10-K, including the information contained therein under the heading Business Overview. Separation Transactions and Distributions; Raytheon Merger. On April 3, 2020, UTC completed the separation of its business into three independent, publicly traded companies UTC, Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier) and Otis Worldwide Corporation (Otis) (such separations, the Separation Transactions ). UTC distributed all of the outstanding shares of Carrier common stock and all of the outstanding shares of Otis common stock to UTC shareowners who held shares of UTC common stock as of the close of business on March 19, 2020, the record date for the distributions (the Distributions ) effective at 12:01 a.m., Eastern Time, on April 3, 2020. The historical results of Carrier and Otis are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Immediately following the completion of the Separation Transactions and the Distributions, on April 3, 2020, UTC and Raytheon Company completed their all-stock merger of equals transaction (the Raytheon Merger ), pursuant to which Raytheon Company became a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC and UTC was renamed Raytheon Technologies Corporation. Business Segments Our operations are classified into four principal business segments: Collins Aerospace Systems, Pratt Whitney, Raytheon Intelligence Space and Raytheon Missiles Defense, with each segment comprised of groups of similar operations. Collins Aerospace Systems. Collins Aerospace Systems (Collins Aerospace) is a leading global provider of technologically advanced aerospace and defense products and aftermarket service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, and regional, business and general aviation, as well as for defense and commercial space operations. Collins Aerospace s product lines include integrated avionics systems, aviation systems, communications systems, navigation systems, electric power generation, management and distribution systems, environmental control systems, flight control systems, air data and aircraft sensing systems, engine control systems, engine components, engine nacelle systems, including thrust reversers and mounting pylons, interior and exterior aircraft lighting, aircraft seating and cargo systems, evacuation systems, landing systems, including landing gear, wheels and braking systems, hoists and winches, fire and ice detection and protection systems, actuation systems, and propeller systems. Collins Aerospace also designs, manufactures, and supports cabin interior, oxygen systems, food and beverage preparation, storage and galley systems, lavatory and wastewater management systems. Collins Aerospace solutions support human space exploration with environmental control and power systems and extravehicular activity suits and support government and defense customer missions by providing airborne intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, test and training range systems, crew escape systems, and simulation and training solutions. Collins Aerospace also provides connected aviation solutions and services through worldwide voice and data communication networks and solutions. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support, training and fleet management solutions, asset management services and information management services. Collins Aerospace sells aerospace and defense products and services to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, the U.S. and foreign governments, defense contractors, maintenance, repair and overhaul providers, and independent distributors around the world. Collins Aerospace s largest commercial customers are Boeing and Airbus with combined sales, prior to discounts and incentives, of 18%, 21% and 27% of total Collins Aerospace segment sales in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In 2021, Collins Aerospace was awarded significant contracts for Airbus A320 Enhanced Vision Systems, Bombardier fleetwide connectivity solutions, and aircraft data access hardware for an undisclosed airline. In the defense area, Collins Aerospace was awarded significant contracts for wheel and carbon brake systems for the B-52 modernization program, NP2000 4 Table of Contents propeller systems for 26 C-130H aircraft for the U.S. Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve, and AN/PCR-162 ground radios for the Handheld, Manpack and Small Form Fit (HMS) program. Collins Aerospace continued its significant product development activities, including for major systems on the A321XLR, the Boeing 777X, the Irkut MC-21, the Dassault 6X Falcon, and the Xian MA700, as well as systems in support of the Boeing T-7A trainer and the Boeing VC-25B. Collins Aerospace also received numerous contract awards for buyer-furnished equipment installation for interiors, avionics, and wheels and brakes, and strategically important contract awards for its FlightSense full life-cycle support services. In November 2021, Collins Aerospace completed its previously announced acquisition of FlightAware, a digital aviation company that operates flight tracking and data platforms. In 2021, Collins Aerospace s F-16 Performance Base Logistics (PBL) program won the Secretary of Defense PBL-of-the-year award. Pratt Whitney. Pratt Whitney is among the world s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for commercial, military, business jet and general aviation customers. Pratt Whitney s Commercial Engines and Military Engines businesses design, develop, produce and maintain families of large engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft for commercial customers and for fighter, bomber, tanker and transport aircraft for military customers. Pratt Whitney s small engine business, Pratt Whitney Canada (P WC), is among the world s leading suppliers of engines powering regional airlines, general and business aviation, as well as helicopters. Pratt Whitney also produces, sells and services military and commercial auxiliary power units. Pratt Whitney provides fleet management services and aftermarket maintenance, repair and overhaul services in all of these segments. Pratt Whitney sells products and services principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt Whitney s largest commercial customer by sales is Airbus, with sales, prior to discounts and incentives, of 31%, 30% and 31% of total Pratt Whitney segment sales in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Pratt Whitney produces the PW1000G Geared Turbofan (GTF) engine family, the first of which, the PW1100G-JM, entered into service in January 2016. The PW1000G GTF engine has demonstrated a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels and lower environmental emissions when compared to legacy engines. The PW1100G-JM engine is offered on the Airbus A320neo family of aircraft. PW1000G GTF engine models also power the Airbus A220 passenger aircraft and Embraer s E-Jet E2 family of aircraft and have been certified by the Russian civil aviation authority to power the Irkut MC-21 passenger aircraft. In addition, P WC s PW800 engine has been selected to exclusively power Gulfstream s G400, G500 and G600 business jets, as well as to power Dassault s Falcon 6X business jet, which is scheduled to enter into service in 2022. Pratt Whitney is under contract to produce and sustain the F135 engine for the U.S. government s F-35 Joint Program Office to power the single-engine F-35 Lightning II aircraft (commonly known as the Joint Strike Fighter) produced by Lockheed Martin. F135 propulsion system configurations are used for the U.S Air Force s F-35A, the U.S. Marine Corps F-35B and the U.S. Navy s F-35C jets. F135 engines are also used on F-35 aircraft purchased by Joint Strike Fighter partner countries and other countries through foreign military sales arrangements. Pratt Whitney is also under contract to build engines for the U.S. Air Force s B-21 long-range strike bomber and to develop next-generation adaptive engines for the U.S. Air Force. The development of new engines and improvements to current production engines present important growth opportunities for Pratt Whitney. In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which revenues, costs and risks are shared with third parties. At December 31, 2021, the interests of third-party collaboration participants in Pratt Whitney-directed jet engine programs ranged, in the aggregate per program, from 13% to 49%. See Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a description of our accounting for collaboration arrangements. Pratt Whitney also continues to enhance its programs through performance improvement measures and product base expansion, utilizing similar collaboration arrangements. In 2021, Pratt Whitney reached significant milestones on the GTF engine program, including the first flight of the GTF Advantage engine for the A320neo family. The GTF Advantage configuration further extends the economic and environmental benefits of the existing GTF engine, as it reduces fuel consumption by an additional 1 percent, extending the engine's lead as the most efficient powerplant for the A320neo family. The GTF family now powers more than 1,100 aircraft across 58 airlines and three aircraft platforms: Airbus A320neo family, Airbus A220 and Embraer E-Jets E2. Also in 2021, Pratt Whitney s V2500 program achieved 250 million flight hours. Pratt Whitney was announced as the engine provider on the Dassault Falcon 6X and Gulfstream G400, representing two new platforms for its PW800 engine. In addition, Pratt Whitney received a significant number of contract awards for the F135 program, which powers all three variants of the F-35 Lightning II fighter aircraft and achieved several F135 production milestones, including the delivery of the 800th production engine and continuing to add more F135 engine maintenance, repair, overhaul and upgrade (MRO U) global capacity by activating MRO U facilities, or depots, in the Netherlands and Australia. Significant activity continued on development programs, including testing the first XA101 engine as part of the Adaptive Engine Transition Program. 5 Table of Contents Raytheon Intelligence Space. Raytheon Intelligence Space (RIS) is a global leading developer and provider of integrated space, communication and sensor systems for advanced missions in all domains, and cyber and software solutions to intelligence, defense, federal and commercial customers. These systems and solutions include end-to-end space solutions, data processing systems, multi-domain intelligence solutions, electronic warfare solutions, including high-energy laser weapons systems, secure sensor solutions, command and control systems, modernization services, and advanced cyber analytics, systems defense and services. RIS serves as a prime contractor or major subcontractor on contracts with the U.S. Intelligence Community, U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and other international and classified customers. In 2021, RIS continued to invest in advancing its products and services, as well as developing next generation capabilities to meet evolving customer missions. RIS achieved significant advancements in key capabilities across its portfolio, including laser technologies; intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) radar frequency products; tactical airborne radars for current and future manned and unmanned aircraft; classified space mission systems; offensive and defensive cyber solutions; and the Next Generation Jammer system. RIS continued to grow its classified business, receiving a number of significant contracts. In November 2021, RIS completed its previously announced acquisition of SEAKR Engineering, a supplier of advanced space electronics. Also in December 2021, RIS completed its previously announced divestiture of its global training and services business . Raytheon Missiles Defense. Raytheon Missiles Defense (RMD) is a leading designer, developer, integrator producer and sustainer of integrated air and missile defense systems; defensive and combat solutions; large land- and sea-based radars; ballistic and hypersonic missile defense systems; and naval and undersea sensor solutions for the U.S. and foreign government customers. RMD s integrated air and missile defense systems include the proven Patriot air and missile defense system and its Lower Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor (LTAMDS), the first in a family of radars known as GhostEye , as well as next-generation radar systems to defeat advanced threats. Its defensive solutions include counter-unmanned aircraft systems and ship defense systems. Its combat solutions include precision munitions, missiles, hypersonics, high power microwave and other weapons. RMD s naval and undersea solutions include combat and ship electronic and sensing systems, as well as undersea sensing and effects solutions. Ballistic and hypersonic missile defense systems include portable radar systems and a portfolio of effectors. Its sustainment solutions include maintenance, depot support, training and predictive analytics services. RMD serves as a prime contractor or major subcontractor on numerous programs with the U.S. DoD, including the U.S. Navy, U.S. Army, Missile Defense Agency, and U.S. Air Force, and international governments. In 2021, RMD achieved key advancements in, or received contract awards for, the following programs, which drove its financial performance and positioned it for future growth: GhostEye, the Lower Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor (LTAMDS); the Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM); the Standard Missile Family (Standard Missile 2 (SM-2), Standard Missile 3 (SM-3) and Standard Missile 6 (SM-6)); Patriot Engineering Services; the Qatar National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System (NASAMS); the Air and Missile Defense Radar (AMDR)/SPY-6; Poland Patriot; the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Transportable Radar Surveillance and Control Model 2 (KSA TPY-2); the Air Intercept Missile (AIM-9X); and Phalanx SeaRAM. Major new awards in 2021 include a contract to develop the Missile Defense Agency s (MDA) Next Generation Inceptor (NGI) as a strategic partner of Northrop Grumman. In addition, RMD was selected by the U.S. Air Force for the Long Range Stand Off (LRSO) Weapon System Engineering and Manufacturing Development contract. Also, in partnership with Northrop Grumman, RMD successfully completed the first flight test for the scramjet-powered Hypersonic Air-breathing Weapon Concept (HAWC) program. The HAWC program is a joint Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and U.S. Air Force effort that seeks to develop and demonstrate critical technologies to enable an effective and affordable air-launched hypersonic cruise missile. Other Matters Relating to Our Business As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in Item 1, Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results, and in Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Form 10-K. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to negatively affect the global economy, our business and operations, and the industries in which we operate. Government, business and individual actions in response to COVID-19 have resulted in continued disruption to air travel and commercial activities and significant restrictions and limitations on businesses, particularly within the aerospace and commercial airline industries. While commercial air travel in certain areas appears to be recovering, it continues to lag in other areas and remains below pre-pandemic levels. Overall, the ongoing disruption from the pandemic continues to adversely affect our airline and airframer customers and their demand for 6 Table of Contents the products and services of our Collins Aerospace and Pratt Whitney businesses. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and continuing economic recovery continues to negatively impact the global supply chain and distribution capabilities and we have experienced negative impacts from supply chain pressures. The pandemic continues to cause product and labor shortages, delivery delays, and increased costs of raw materials, labor and supplier products and services around the world. We are working with our suppliers and subcontractors to mitigate delays in our receipt of necessary raw materials, components and other supplies and to reduce supply chain costs. Our RIS and RMD businesses, although experiencing some negative impacts, including from the supply chain pressures and labor shortages discussed above, have not experienced significant business disruptions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. For additional information related to the COVID-19 pandemic, see