Item 1. Business: 5 Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 25 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 26 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 26 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 26 Item 9B. Other Information 26 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 28 Item 11. Executive Compensation 30 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 30 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 30 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 31 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 32 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 37 SIGNATURES 38 3 UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION Annual Report on Form 10-K for Year Ended December 31, 2019 Whenever reference is made in this Form 10-K to specific sections of United Technologies Corporation s 2019 Annual Report to Shareowners (2019 Annual Report), those sections are incorporated herein by reference and are included in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and product and service designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. Names, abbreviations of names, logos, and product and service designators of other companies are either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of their respective owners. As used herein, the terms "we," "us," "our," "the Company," or "UTC," unless the context otherwise requires, mean United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. References to internet websites in this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only. Information available through these websites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. PART I 4 Item 1. Business General United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable primarily to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our 2019 Annual Report, including the information contained therein under the heading "Business Overview." Our operations for the periods presented herein are classified into four segments: Otis, Carrier, Pratt Whitney, and Collins Aerospace Systems, with each segment comprised of groups of similar operating companies. References to each segment include the various operating companies established worldwide through which the operations for each segment are conducted. Otis and Carrier (collectively referred to as the "commercial businesses") serve customers in the commercial, government, infrastructure and residential property sectors, and refrigeration and transport sectors worldwide. Pratt Whitney and Collins Aerospace Systems (collectively referred to as the "aerospace businesses") primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. For 2019, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by the commercial businesses) were approximately 41 percent of our consolidated sales, and our commercial and military aerospace sales (generated exclusively by our aerospace businesses) were approximat ely 42 percent and 17 percent, respectively, of our consolidated sales. International sales for 2019, including U.S. export sales, were 60 p ercent of our net sales. On June 9, 2019, UTC entered into a merger agreement with Raytheon Company (Raytheon) providing for an all-stock merger of equals transaction. The Raytheon merger agreement provides, among other things, that each share of Raytheon common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the Raytheon merger (except for shares held by Raytheon as treasury stock) will be converted into the right to receive 2.3348 shares of UTC common stock. Upon the closing of the Raytheon merger, Raytheon will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC, and UTC will change its name to Raytheon Technologies Corporation. On October 11, 2019, the shareowners of each of UTC and Raytheon approved the proposals necessary to complete the Raytheon merger. The Raytheon merger is expected to close early in the second quarter 2020 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals, as well as the completion of UTC's separation of its Otis and Carrier businesses (discussed below). As has been previously disclosed, in November 2018, the Company announced its intention to separate into three independent companies. Following the separation transactions, the Company will operate as an aerospace company comprised of the Collins Aerospace Systems and Pratt Whitney businesses, and Otis and Carrier will become separate independent companies. The proposed separation transactions are expected to be effected through spin-offs of Otis and Carrier that are intended to be tax-free for the Company s shareowners for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and are expected to be completed early in the second quarter of 2020. Separation of Otis and Carrier from UTC via spin-off transactions is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including, among others, final approval by the Company s Board of Directors, receipt of tax rulings and a tax opinion from external counsel, the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and effectiveness of Form 10 registration statements, and satisfactory completion of financing (subject to UTC s agreement to consummate the distributions pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Raytheon merger agreement). This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investors section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading "SEC Filings" as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Description of Business by Segment Each segment's business, including its principal products and services and other material developments and information, is described below. Segment financial data for the years 2017 through 2019, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales, appears in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the "Eliminations and other" category as reflected in the segment financial data in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report. Similarly, the total remaining performance obligation (RPO) discussed below includes intercompany RPO. See 5 Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report for further discussion of the accounting for RPO under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers . Otis Otis is the world s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators, as well as escalators and moving walkways for residential and commercial buildings and infrastructure projects. In addition to new equipment, Otis performs maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers and provides modernization services to upgrade elevators and escalators. Otis serves customers in the commercial, residential and infrastructure property sectors around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and through sales representatives and distributors. Sales generated by Otis international operations were 73 percent of total Otis net sales in 2019 and 2018. Otis RPO was $16.3 billion and $1 6.4 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Of the total Otis RPO at December 31, 2019, approximately $8.7 billion is expecte d to be realized as sales in 2020. Carrier Carrier is a leading global provider of heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC), refrigeration, fire and security solutions for residential, commercial, industrial and smart cold chain applications. Carrier provides a wide range of residential and building systems, including air conditioners, heating systems and controls, refrigeration, fire, flame, gas, smoke and carbon monoxide detection, portable fire extinguishers, fire suppression, intruder alarms, access control systems, video management systems and electronic controls. Carrier also provides a broad array of related building services, including audit, design, installation, system integration, repair, maintenance, and monitoring services. Carrier sells its HVAC and refrigeration solutions directly to end customers, including building contractors and owners, transportation companies and retail stores, and through joint ventures, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers and dealers. These products and services are sold under the Carrier name and other brand names. Carrier s security and fire safety products and services are used by governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants, homeowners and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. Carrier provides its security and fire safety products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to customers as well as through manufacturer's representatives, distributors, dealers, value-added resellers and retailers. Demand for Carrier s HVAC products and services is seasonal and can be impacted by weather. Carrier regularly offers incentives and training, such as credits/discounts for offering promotional pricing and contract terms on its products, to its distribution partners to purchase and sell Carrier s products to ensure an adequate supply of Carrier s products. Sales generated by Carrier s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 52 percent and 54 percent of total Carrier net sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Carrier s RPO was $4.7 billion and $5.3 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Of the total Carrier RPO at December 31, 2019, approximately $3 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2020. Pratt Whitney Pratt Whitney is among the world s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general aviation markets. Pratt Whitney provides fleet management services and aftermarket maintenance, repair and overhaul services. Pratt Whitney designs, develops, produces and maintains families of large engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft in the commercial market and for fighter, bomber, tanker and transport aircraft in the military market. Pratt Whitney Canada (P WC) is among the world's leading suppliers of engines powering general and business aviation, as well as regional airline, and utility airplanes, and helicopters. Pratt Whitney and P WC also produce, sell and service auxiliary power units for military and commercial aircraft. The development of new engines and improvements to current production engines present important growth opportunities. In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which revenues, costs and risks are shared with third parties. At December 31, 2019, the interests of third-party participants in Pratt Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged, in the aggregate per program, from approximately 13 percent to 49 percent. UTC holds a 61 percent program share interest in the IAE International Aero Engines AG (IAE) collaboration with MTU Aero Engines AG (MTU) and Japanese Aero Engines Corporation (JAEC). Pratt Whitney also holds a 59 percent program share interest in the International Aero Engines, LLC (IAE LLC) collaboration with MTU and JAEC. Pratt Whitney sells the PW1100G-JM engine for the Airbus A320neo family of aircraft and the PW1400G- 6 JM engine for the Irkut MC-21 aircraft through IAE LLC. In addition, Pratt Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 50 percent ownership interest in Engine Alliance, LLC (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, which sells and provides maintenance services for the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft, which Airbus has announced it no longer intends to manufacture after 2021. Pratt Whitney has entered into risk and revenue sharing arrangements with third parties for 40 percent of the products and 25 percent of the services that Pratt Whitney is responsible for providing to the EA. Pratt Whitney accounts for its interest in the EA joint venture under the equity method of accounting. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for collaborative arrangements. Pratt Whitney produces the PW1000G Geared Turbofan engine family, the first of which, the PW1100G-JM, entered into service in January 2016. The PW1000G Geared Turbofan engine has demonstrated a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels and lower environmental emissions when compared to legacy engines. The PW1100G-JM engine is offered on the Airbus A320neo family of aircraft. PW1000G Geared Turbofan engine models also power the Airbus A220 passenger aircraft and Embraer s E-Jet E2 family of aircraft. Additionally, PW1000G Geared Turbofan engine models have been selected to power the new Mitsubishi SpaceJet, and the new Irkut MC-21 passenger aircraft, which are scheduled to enter service in 2020 and 2021, respectively. As previously disclosed, Gulfstream announced the selection of the PW800 engine to exclusively power Gulfstream s new G500 and G600 business jets. The Gulfstream G500 entered service in 2018, and the Gulfstream G600 entered service in 2019. P WC's PW800 engine has also been selected to power the new Falcon 6X business jet by Dassault Aviation, which is scheduled to enter into service in 2022. Pratt Whitney continues to enhance its programs through performance improvement measures and product base expansion. The success of these aircraft and engines is dependent upon many factors, including technological accomplishments, program execution, aircraft demand, and regulatory approval. As a result of these factors, as well as the level of success of aircraft program launches by aircraft manufacturers and other conditions, additional investment in these engine programs may be required. Pratt Whitney is under contract with the U.S. Government's F-35 Joint Program Office to produce and sustain the F135 engine to power the single-engine F-35 Lightning II aircraft (commonly known as the Joint Strike Fighter) being produced by Lockheed Martin. The two F135 propulsion system configurations for the F-35A, F-35B and F-35C jets are used by the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Navy, respectively. F135 engines are also used on F-35 aircraft purchased by Joint Strike Fighter partner countries and foreign military sales countries. Pratt Whitney is also under contract to build engines for the U.S. Air Force s B-21 long-range strike bomber and for the development of next-generation adaptive engines for the U.S. Air Force. Pratt Whitney s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt Whitney s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. Sales to Airbus (Pratt Whitney s largest customer by sales) were 31 percent and 36 percent of total Pratt Whitney segm ent sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. Government were approximately 27 percent and 23 percent of total Pratt Whitney segment sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales generated by Pratt Whitney s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 64 percent and 63 percent of total Pratt Whitney net sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. At December 31, 2019, Pratt Whitney s RPO was $85.2 billion, including $13.1 billion of U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2018, Pratt Whitney's RPO was $71.1 billion, including $10.0 billion of U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts. Of the total Pratt Whitney RPO at December 31, 2019, approximately $14 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2020. Pratt Whitney s RPO includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report for a description of our Revenue Recognition accounting policy which includes discussion of the accounting for long-term contracts and for further disc ussion on RPO under ASC Topic 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers . Collins Aerospace Systems Collins Aerospace Systems is a leading global provider of technologically advanced aerospace products and aftermarket service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, regional, business and general aviation markets, as well as military and space operations. Collins Aerospace Systems product portfolio mainly includes electric power generation, power management and distribution systems, air data and aircraft sensing systems, engine control systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire and ice detection and protection systems, propeller systems, engine nacelle systems, including thrust reversers and mounting pylons, interior and exterior aircraft lighting, aircraft seating and cargo systems, actuation systems, landing systems, including landing gear and wheels and brakes, space 7 products and subsystems, integrated avionics systems, precision targeting, electronic warfare and range and training systems, flight controls, communications systems, navigation systems, oxygen systems, simulation and training systems, food and beverage preparation, storage and galley systems, lavatory and wastewater management systems. Collins Aerospace Systems also designs, produces and supports cabin interior, communications and aviation systems and products and provides information management services through voice and data communication networks and solutions worldwide. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support, training and fleet management solutions, and information management services. Collins Aerospace Systems sells aerospace products and services to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, the U.S. and foreign governments, maintenance, repair and overhaul providers, and independent distributors. Collins Aerospace Systems largest customers are Boeing and Airbus with a combined 27 percent and 31 percent of total Collins Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales to the U.S. Government were 18 percent and 19 percent of total Collins Aerospace Systems net sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2019, Collins Aerospace Systems products supported the first flight of the Royal Canadian Air Force Airbus C295, Embraer E175-E2, and the Optionally Piloted Black Hawk helicopter. In addition, we supported entry into service for the Gulfstream G600 and the Embraer E195-E2. Certifications were completed for the Embraer Praetor 500 and 600 and the United States Air Force s Modernized GPS User Equipment program. Significant product development activity continues, including major systems for Boeing s 777X, T-7A, and VC-25B, the Mitsubishi SpaceJet, the Irkut MC-21, the Dassault 6X Falcon, the Leonardo AW249, and the COMAC C919. Other significant development work includes Iridium Next, HF Next, Tactical Combat Training Systems Increment II, NASA deep space exploration systems, distributed pulse oxygen system, and the FAA CLEEN II demonstrator. Sales generated by Collins Aerospace Systems international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 53 percent and 56 percent of total Collins Aer ospace Systems segment sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. At December 31, 2019, Collins Aerospace Systems RPO was $29.5 billion, including $6.8 billion of U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2018, Collins Aerospace Systems' RPO was $26.6 billion, including $6.0 billion of U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, and $10.7 billion of RPO related to the acquisition of Rockwell Collins. Of the total Collins Aerospace Systems RPO at December 31, 2019, approximately $12 billi on is expected to be realized as sales in 2020. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report for a description of our Revenue Recognition accounting policy which includes discussion of the accounting for long-term contracts and for further discussion on RPO under ASC Topic 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers . Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our 2019 Annual Report, in Item 1, "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results," and in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of companies in the U.S. and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service. Our aerospace businesses are subject to substantial competition from various domestic and foreign manufacturers, customers and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts, with foreign companies sometimes receiving government research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for certain of their products beyond the assistance that may be available in the U.S. Customer selections of aircraft engines, components and systems can also have a significant impact on future sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. Government s and other governments policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Significant elements of our aerospace businesses, such as spare parts sales for engines and aircraft in service, have short lead times. Therefore, RPO information may not be indicative of future demand. Additionally, our aerospace businesses' competitors may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, and participation in financing arrangements in an effort to compete for the aftermarket associated with these products. For information regarding customer financing commitments, participation in guarantees of customer financing arrangements and performance and operating cost guarantees, primarily related to Pratt Whitney, see Notes 4 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report. Pratt Whitney s major competitors in the sale of engines are GE Aviation, Honeywell, Safran Helicopter Engines, and CFM International. 8 U.S. Government Contracts Contracting with the U.S. Government entails certain unique risks. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for convenience or for default in the event of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred and termination costs. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another so urce and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. Government sales are made under fixed-price contracts, while approximately $2.6 billion or 3 percent of our total sales for 2019 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to audits. For further discussion of risks related to government contracting, including on-going litigation associated with U.S. Government audits, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," in this Form 10-K and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report. Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Notes 1 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report. Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be deemed ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. Government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition giving rise to the violation has been corrected. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. Changes in climate-related concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and raw materials costs. We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants, energy efficiency standards and fire safety regulations are important to our Carrier businesses, and elevator safety codes are important to Otis' businesses, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses. U.S. laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of UTC and its affiliates. For further discussion of risks related to environmental matters and other government regulations, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," in this Form 10-K and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2019 Annual Report. Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While we believe we have taken reasonable measures to protect this portfolio, our efforts may not be sufficient. See Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for further discussion of intellectual property matters. We believe we have adequate sources for our purchases of materials, components, services and supplies used in our manufacturing. We work continuously with our supply base to ensure an adequate source of supply and to reduce costs. We pursue cost reductions through a number of mechanisms, including consolidating our purchases, reducing the number of suppliers, strategic global sourcing and competitions among potential suppliers. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Like other users in the U.S., we are largely dependent upon foreign sources for certain raw materials, such as cobalt, tantalum, chromium, rhenium and nickel. We have a number of ongoing pr