Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B. Other Information 96 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 96 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 97 Item 11. Executive Compensation 97 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 97 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 97 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 97 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 98 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 102 Signatures 102 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leading provider of products, services and solutions for the diagnostics, life sciences and applied markets. Through our advanced technologies and differentiated solutions, we address critical issues that help to improve lives and the world around us. Our headquarters are in Waltham, Massachusetts, and we market our products and services in more than 190 countries. As of January 2, 2022, we employed approximately 16,700 employees. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PKI and we are a component of the S P 500 Index. We maintain a website with the address http://www.perkinelmer.com . We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Strategy Our strategy is to develop and deliver innovative products, services and solutions in high-growth markets that utilize our knowledge and expertise to address customers critical needs and drive scientific breakthroughs. To execute on our strategy and accelerate revenue growth, we focus on broadening our offerings through both the investment in research and development and the acquisition of innovative technology. Our strategy includes: Strengthening our position within key markets by expanding our global product and service offerings, maintaining superior product quality and driving an enhanced customer experience; Attracting, retaining and developing talented and engaged employees; Accelerating transformational innovation through both internal research and development and third-party collaborations and alliances; Augmenting growth in both of our core business segments, Discovery Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics, through strategic acquisitions and licensing; Engraining focused operational excellence to improve organizational efficiency and agility; and Opportunistically utilizing our share repurchase programs to help drive shareholder value. Recent Developments As part of our strategy to grow our core businesses, we have recently taken the following actions: Acquisitions in Fiscal Year 2021: In fiscal year 2021, we completed the acquisition of BioLegend, Inc. ("BioLegend") and paid an aggregate purchase price of $5.7 billion, net of cash acquired of $292.4 million, reflecting working capital and other adjustments (the "Aggregate Consideration"). The Aggregate Consideration was paid in a combination of $3.3 billion in cash and shares of our common stock having a value of approximately $2.6 billion based on the $187.56 per share closing price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on September 17, 2021 (the "Stock Consideration"). The Stock Consideration consisted of 14,066,799 shares of our common stock and was issued on September 17, 2021 in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. BioLegend is recognized as a leading, global provider of life science antibodies and reagents headquartered in San Diego, California, with approximately 700 employees. In fiscal year 2021, w e also completed t he acquisition of seven other businesse s for aggregate consideration of $1.2 billion. The acquired businesses include Oxford Immunotec Global PLC ("Oxford"), a company based in Abingdon, UK with approximately 275 employees, for total consideration of $590.9 million, Nexcelom Bioscience Holdings, LLC ("Nexcelom"), a company based in Lawrence, Massachusetts with approximately 130 employees, for total consideration of $267.3 million, and five other businesses, which were acquired for total consideration of $331.0 million. 3 Table of Contents Business Segments and Products We report our business in two segments: Discovery Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics. Discovery Analytical Solutions Segment Our comprehensive portfolio of technologies helps life sciences researchers better understand diseases and develop treatments. In addition, we enable scientists to detect, monitor and manage contaminants and toxic chemicals that impact our environment and food supply. Our Discovery Analytical Solutions segment serves the life sciences and applied markets. Life Sciences: Life Sciences consists of the life sciences research market and laboratory services market. In the life sciences research market, we provide a broad suite of solutions including reagents, informatics, contract research services, and detection and imaging technologies that enable scientists to work smarter, make research breakthroughs and transform those breakthroughs to real-world outcomes. These products, solutions and services support pharmaceutical, biotech, and contract research organizations, as well as academic institutions globally in discovering and developing better treatments and therapeutics to fight disease, faster and more efficiently. BioLegend s acquisition provides us with access to new markets as well, notably the flow cytometry and multiomic cell analysis markets. We also provide services designed to help customers in the laboratory services market increase efficiencies and production time while reducing laboratory maintenance costs. Our OneSource laboratory service business is aligned with customers' needs, enabling them to accelerate scientific progress and commercial opportunities. Applied Markets: The applied markets consist of environmental, food and industrial markets. For the environmental market, we develop and provide analytical technologies, solutions and services that enable our customers to understand and characterize the health and quality of our environment, including air, water and soil. Our solutions are used to detect and help reduce the impact commercial products and industrial processes have on our environment. For example, our solutions help ensure compliance with regulatory standards that protect the purity of the world's water supply by detecting harmful substances, including trace metals such as lead, and organic pollutants such as pesticides and benzene. We provide the tools needed to meet rigorous regulatory requirements for environmental testing, meet quality specifications and safety standards, and innovate for next generation analytical products. We also offer a variety of solutions that help farmers and food producers provide a growing population with food that is safe, nutritious and appealing, and assist manufacturers with ensuring product consistency and maximizing production yield. Our solutions confirm food quality, including the level of moisture in grain or the level of fat in butter and nutritional elements, as well as detect the presence of potentially dangerous contaminants, such as veterinary drug residues in milk. Our workflows can also be used to identify the origin of food products such as olive oil, which helps prevent counterfeiting. Our methods and analyses are transferable throughout the supply chain to enable customers to keep pace with industry standards as well as governmental regulations and certifications. We also provide analytical instrumentation for the industrial market which includes the chemical, semiconductor and electronics, energy, lubricant, petrochemical and polymer industries. Our technologies for this market are primarily used by customers focusing on quality assurance standards. They are also used to drive advancement or innovation of new products, with a recent focus on increasing the recyclability and biodegradability of materials and improving electric vehicle battery performance. Principal Products: Our principal products and services for Discovery Analytical Solutions applications include the following: Life Sciences Market: Radiometric detection solutions, including over 1,100 radiochemicals and instrumentation such as the Tri-Carb and Quantulus GCT families of liquid scintillation analyzers, Wizard 2 Gamma counters and MicroBeta 2 plate based LSA, which are used for beta, gamma and luminescence counting in microplate and vial formats utilized in research, environmental and drug discovery applications. 4 Table of Contents The Opera Phenix Plus high-content screening system, which is used for sensitive and high-speed phenotypic drug screening of complex cellular models. The Operetta CLS high-content analysis system, which enables scientists to reveal fine sub-cellular details from everyday assays as well as more complex studies, for example using live cells, 3D and stem cells. Reagents and solutions for microscopy and imaging applications. These include fluorophore-conjugated and enzyme-conjugated antibodies, as well as buffers and solutions such as our Ce3D collection of buffers for 3D tissue imaging. The MuviCyte live-cell imaging system, designed to operate inside a cell-culture incubator, enabling researchers to study cellular behaviors and pathways in living cells to gain a deeper understanding of functions, disease mechanisms and responses to treatments. The VICTOR Nivo multimode plate reader benchtop system, which is designed for assay development and academic labs including those using HTRF and AlphaLISA technologies. The EnSight multimode plate reader benchtop system, which offers well plate imaging alongside labeled detection technologies for target-based and phenotypic assays. The EnVision multimode plate reader, which is designed for high-throughput screening laboratories, including those using HTRF , AlphaScreen and AlphaLISA technologies. A wide range of homogeneous biochemical and cell-based reagents using HTRF , LANCE Ultra , DELFIA , AlphaLISA , AlphaLISA SureFire Ultra, AlphaScreen , AlphaPlex and luminescence assay technologies. A broad portfolio of recombinant GPCR and ion channel cell lines, including over 300 products and 120 ready-to-use frozen cell lines for a wide range of disease areas. ELISA MAX Standard Sets, ELISA MAX Deluxe Sets, LEGEND MAX ELISA Kits and RAPID MAX ELISA Kits, as well as complementary solutions and buffers for immunoassays to cover more than 200 targets for human, mouse, and rat samples, many of which are designed to assess the immune environment and its inflammatory state for vaccine, infectious disease and autoimmune disease research. LEGENDplex bead-based reagents, which, in contrast to single analyte assays such as ELISAs, can quantitate up to 14 targets, from one small sample volume in a flow cytometry assay. In vivo imaging technologies and reagents for preclinical research, comprised of the IVIS Spectrum series for 2D and 3D optical imaging and optionally integrated low-dose CT imaging and the IVIS Lumina series for benchtop 2D imaging, along with IVISbrite bioluminescent and IVISense fluorescent imaging agents, cell lines and dyes. GoInVivo as well as Ultra-LEAF and LEAF functional antibodies, which provide an affordable solution for researchers performing in vivo and ex vivo studies. The Quantum TM GX2 system, which enables low-dose in vivo CT imaging of multiple species and areas of anatomical interest across multiple disease areas by way of high resolution, tomographic imaging. Nexcelom BioScience automated cell counters, image cytometers, reagents and consumables for cell analysis used in life science research, drug discovery and drug development. Horizon Discovery offerings that enable critical elements of the drug development and therapeutic value chain, particularly in the area of precision medicine with a portfolio of cell engineering tools and services, featuring gene editing technologies such as CRISPR, and base editing and gene modulation technologies such as RNAi. Sirion Biotech consultancy services and technologies to design and manufacture viral vectors for cell and gene therapy research and preclinical development. BioLegend best-in-class antibodies and reagents, which are used by life science researchers across biologics, cell and gene therapy, proteogenomics, and recombinant proteins. Fluorophore-conjugated antibodies, which are used in flow cytometers to characterize protein expression on the surface and in internal compartments of cells. The large collection of dyes and antibodies allows for an increasing number of conjugate options, facilitating the use of bigger and better flow cytometry panels. Notable products are Brilliant Violet and Spark dyes, among others. TotalSeq reagents, which are oligonucleotide-barcoded antibodies that enable protein detection by sequencing and combining traditional RNA or DNA sequencing experiments with high-parameter protein detection. Cell culture and biofunctional assay reagents, including bioactive recombinant proteins, as well as other specialized reagents such as Cell-Vive T-NK Xeno-Free Serum Substitute (GMP), and other GMP-produced recombinant proteins and reagents. These products serve several markets, notably cell and gene therapy applications. MojoSort and Lymphopure reagents that cover the main spectrum of cell separation technologies, which together with our fluorophore-antibody conjugates, can be used for FACS (Fluorescence-activated Cell Sorting). Flex-T reagents that utilize major histocompatibility complex tetramers to present peptides for the identification of antigen-specific T cells. Our Flex-T products can be used to screen the efficacy of antigen peptides for vaccine and drug trials, as well as characterizing the dominance of cancer-specific self-peptides, and more recently, SARS-CoV2 peptides for COVID-19 research. 5 Table of Contents Antibodies and solutions for Western blotting. A large collection of validated antibodies, as well as supporting buffers and substrates, which provide a convenient set of tools to characterize protein size and relative expression levels in cell or tissue lysates. OneSource laboratory services, a comprehensive portfolio of multivendor instrument management, QA/QC, lab relocation, scientific, laboratory IT and regulatory compliance services. OneSource services programs are tailored to the specific needs and goals of individual customers and offer a series of informatics-based consulting, planning and management offerings to assist in laboratory productivity and the optimization of complex Information Technology platforms. OneSource Dashboard software, a TIBCO Spotfire technology-driven interactive graphical platform, which provides visibility to a customer s global asset population, service event and downtime distribution, as well as key performance indicators to assist in asset operation. OneSource Insights as a Service TM offerings, which leverages comprehensive OneSource analytics and industry data to develop and deliver customer-need driven recommendations to optimize, integrate and accelerate lab operations. PerkinElmer Signals Medical Review TM software, which empowers medical monitors to detect safety signals faster and reduce overall time to submission by combining innovative medical review workflow with advanced analytics. PerkinElmer Signals Lead Discovery TM software, which enables researchers to quickly gain new insights into chemical and biomolecular research data, featuring guided search and analysis workflows and dynamic data visualizations for on-the-fly exploration. PerkinElmer Signals TM electronic notebook, a scientific research data management solution, which allows researchers to record research data and experiments in digital notebooks, drag and drop, store, organize, share, find and filter data easily. PerkinElmer Signals Translational TM data management, aggregation and analysis platform, which offers out-of-the-box support for the complete precision medicine workflow from data acquisition to biomarker discovery and validation. ChemDraw 18 platform, a chemical structure drawing and visualization application for scientists and researchers. Lead Discovery TM Premium software, which allows scientists to import, filter by, analyze and interpret chemical structures and biosequences alongside other related data in a highly visual and interactive environment for faster insights and better decisions. OneSource Asset Genius monitoring solution, part of the Asset Genius family, which offers a 360 o view of laboratory instruments regardless of the manufacturer, correlating instrument usage, age and service data, allowing customers to visually pinpoint under-performing, ideally-performing and over-burdened assets, and to make informed decisions. Applied Markets: The series of Clarus gas chromatographs and gas chromatographs/mass spectrometers, and the family of TurboMatrix sample-handling equipment, which are used to identify and quantify compounds in the environmental, forensics, food and beverage, hydrocarbon processing/biofuels, materials testing, pharmaceutical and semiconductor industries. The LC 300 ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) and LC 300 high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) systems, which provide high throughput along with superior performance and sensitivity. The SimplicityChrom CDS software which offers liquid chromatography workflows and intuitive functions for full 21CFR 11 compliance for laboratories working in regulated environments. A comprehensive Liquid Chromatography (LC) Column portfolio of innovative and highly efficient HPLC/ UHPLC and supercritical fluid chromatography (SFC) chemistries. The NexSAR HPLC, which is a speciation analysis ready system engineered with a completely inert and metal-free fluid path, enabling laboratories to meet low chromatographic background requirements on the most challenging speciation applications in food, water or consumer products such as children's toys. The Flexar ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) and Flexar advanced liquid chromatography systems, which provide high throughput and resolution chromatographic separations. The QSight Triple Quad LC/MS/MS, a flow-based mass spectrometry system that provides high sensitivity and enables high levels of efficiency and productivity to meet both standard and regulatory requirements for food, cannabis and environmental testing laboratories. The Torion T-9 portable GC/MS, a fast person-portable GC/MS system, enabling rapid detection and actionable results to potentially hazardous and emergency environmental conditions. Atomic spectroscopy families of instruments, including the families of PinAAcle atomic absorption spectrometers, Avio Max inductively coupled plasma ( ICP ) optical emission spectrometers and NexION ICP mass spectrometers, all of which are used in the environmental, food, pharmaceutical, and chemical industries, among others, to determine the elemental content of a sample. 6 Table of Contents The LPC 500 liquid particle counter featuring single particle optical sizing technology. Coupled with the Avio 550 Max ICP-OES oils system, particle counting and sizing as well as wear metals analysis of in-service oils and lubricants are performed in one run with results delivered in less than a minute. Our infrared spectroscopy (IR) family of instruments, the Spectrum Two IR NIR spectrometers, which are compact and portable and used for advanced infrared analysis for unknown substance identification, material qualification or concentration determination in fuel and lubricant analysis, polymer analysis and pharmaceutical and environmental applications. The Polymer ID analyzer, which provides accurate verification of identity, quality, and composition of polymers and their blends used in industries such as food packaging, construction and automotive. The series of LAMBDA UV/Vis spectrophotometers that provide sampling flexibility to enable measurement of a wide range of sample types, including liquids, powders and solid materials, both in regulated industries as well as QC/QA and research applications. The FL 6500 TM and FL 8500 TM fluorescence spectrophotometers, which address the challenges of bioscience, industrial, chemical, environmental, pharmaceutical, agricultural and academic application. The 2400 Series II CHNS/O elemental analyzer, one of the leading organic elemental analyzers, which is ideal for the rapid determination of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, sulfur and oxygen content in organic and other types of materials. Our thermal analysis family, which includes our series of Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) instruments that offer exclusive HyperDSC capability for unparalleled sensitivity and new insights into material processes, our Thermogravimetric (TGA) and Simultaneous Thermal Analysis (STA) instruments that can be coupled with Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR), Mass Spectrometry (MS), or Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) technologies to provide a complete and advanced line of Evolved Gas Analysis (EGA) platforms for greater analysis power and knowledge with materials characterization in polymers, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, petroleum, rubber, food and other areas. Perten Falling Number , which is the world standard method for measuring sprout damage. This is an important factor affecting the price of wheat and, ultimately, bread, baked goods, and pasta/noodle quality. RVA performance analyzer, which provides a screening tool for both producers and users of food ingredients. The Bioo Scientific test kits for detection of toxins, veterinary drug residues and contaminants, which enable rapid and easy testing at different steps in the food value chain. The PerkinElmer FT 9700 compact, high-performance and full-wavelength-range Fourier Transform Near Infrared (FT-NIR) spectrometer, which helps food and feed laboratories perform quick analyses for quality assurance of food and feed materials and reduces variations in production. The DA 7250 diode-array based NIR lab and at-line system, which simultaneously measures multiple constituents (moisture, protein, fat fiber, etc.) in 10 seconds. The IM 9500 Whole Grain NIR, which measures moisture, protein, oil, and more in less than 40 seconds. The AM 5200 grain moisture meter, which is based on the latest moisture meter technology, including the use of the Unified Grain Moisture Algorithm (UGMA) and 149MHz. The QSight SP50 online solid phase extraction (SPE) system, which facilitates sample clean-up, enrichment and concentration, obviating the need for elaborate and time-consuming sample preparation procedures. MaxSignal HTS mycotoxin kits featuring automated and easy-to-use testing workflows for the six most commonly tested mycotoxins. PerkinElmer Solus One Listeria monocytogenes ELISA Assay. This new offering is designed to help high throughput food processors and contract labs focus on L. mono testing for food and environmental surface samples. DA 7350 and DA 7440 in-line and on-line NIR instruments combined with Process Plus cloud-based software provide continuous quality control of food and food ingredient manufacturing processes. Perten Glutomatic 2000 system for gluten quantity and quality testing of wheat, durum, semolina and flour. LactoScope FT-A instrument, which delivers quick and accurate full spectrum component testing and adulterant screening for liquid dairy products such as whey, raw and skim milk, shelf stable milk and cream with under 40% fat content. MaxSignalHTS Nitrofurans and Chloramphenicol ELISA kits, which will help food safety, quality and aquaculture labs simultaneously and accurately perform same-day testing for targeted antibiotic residues. 7 Table of Contents New Products: New products introduced or acquired for Discovery Analytical Solutions applications in fiscal year 2021 include the following: Life Sciences Market: PhenoVue cellular imaging reagents, including cell painting kits, fluorescent probes and dyes and fluorescent secondary antibodies, which are part of an expanded suite of high-content imaging consumables that includes PhenoPlate (formerly CellCarrier Ultra ) cellular imaging microplates and GrowDex hydrogels. A range of new AlphaLISA and HTRF reagents and assay kits serving key research and therapeutic areas, including GPCRs, targeted protein degradation, inflammation, oncology and neuroscience. The Signals Image Artist next-generation image analysis and management platform for drug discovery research, to help scientists process and analyze their high-content screening (HCS) and cellular imaging data in a matter of hours vs. days or weeks, so they can make more informed decisions faster. Horizon CHOSOURCE platform expanded to include CHO-K1 ADCC+ expression cell line for development of therapeutic antibodies in oncology, infectious disease and autoimmune conditions. A catalog of more than 20,000 SKUs from the recent acquisition of BioLegend, incorporating antibodies as well as a large collection of antibody conjugates and modifications. Other products include recombinant proteins, immunoassays and other supportive reagents and solutions for cell and molecular analysis. The T-SPOT Discovery SARS-CoV-2 research use only assay to investigate cell-mediated immunity related to COVID-19. AuroFlow AQ Mycotoxin platform that includes strip test versions for total Aflatoxin, Deoxynivalenol (DON), Fumonisin, Ochratoxin A, Zearalenone and T-2/HT-2. Applied Markets: MappIR accessory for Spectrum 3 FT-IR, which helps ensure quality of incoming raw materials and final product quality for better outcomes in semiconductor wafer manufacturing. The Tablet Analyzer and portable Silica Analyzer platform, which are dedicated analyzers launched to address customer needs for quick and accurate characterization of pharmaceutical tablet testing and respirable crystalline silica in mining environments, respectively. PureView Certified and PureView MS Certified vials, manufactured from Type 1 borosilicate glass which meets all USP, JP and EP requirements. The low-expansion, coefficient glass exhibits excellent thermal conductivity and provides an inert surface with a low free ion content, giving accurate and repeatable results every time. Brand Names: Our Discovery Analytical Solutions segment offers additional products under various brand names: Life Sciences Market: Accell , AdenoBOOST , AlphaLISA , AlphaPlex , AlphaScreen , Alpha SureFire , Brilliant Violet , Ce3D , CellCarrier , Cellaca , Celigo , Cellometer , cell::explorer , Cell-Vive , Chalice , Chem3D , ChemDraw , ChemOffice , CHOSOURCE , Dharmacon , DharmaFECT , Edit-R , ELISA MAX , EnSight , EnVision , Flex-T , FMT , FolateRSense , GoInVivo , HTRF , IVIS , IVISbrite , IVISense , LANCE , LANCE Ultra , LEAF , LEGEND MAX , LEGENDplex , LentiBOOST , L incode , Living Image , Lumina , Lymphopure , MicroBeta 2 , [Mini ELISA Plate Reader ,] miRIDIAN , MojoSort , MuviCyte , OneSource , ON-TARGET , ON-TARGETplus , Opera Phenix Plus, Operetta CLS , PerkinElmer Signals for Translational , PhenoPlate , PhenoVue , PIN-POINT , Quantulus GCT, RAPID MAX , RediJect , RNAiONE , Signals Image Artist , SMARTpools , SMARTvector , Spark , Spectrum , Tri-Carb , T-SPOT , Ultra-LEAF , ViaStain , VICTOR Nivo and Wizard 2 . Applied Markets: Aquamatic , Avio , Clarity , Clarus , DairyGuard , DoughLab , Falling Number , FL 6500 TM , FL 8500 TM , Flexar TM , Frontier , Glutomatic , Honigs Regression , HyperDSC , Inframatic , LAMBDA , LPC 500 , NexION , NexSAR , OilExpress , OilPrep , Optima , Perten , Perten Instruments , PinAAcle , PureView TM , QSight , SimplicityChrom , Spectrum , Spectrum Two , Spotlight , Supra-clean , Supra-d , Supra-poly , Syngistix , Torion , TruQ , TurboMatrix and Ultraspray . 8 Table of Contents Diagnostics Segment We offer instruments, reagents, assay platforms, and software to hospitals, medical labs, clinicians and medical research professionals to help improve the health of families. Our Diagnostics segment is especially focused on reproductive health, immunodiagnostics, emerging market diagnostics and applied genomics. We provide early detection for genetic disorders from pregnancy to early childhood, and infectious disease testing for the diagnostics market. Our screening products are designed to provide early and accurate insights into the health of expectant mothers during pregnancy and into the health of their babies. Diagnostic labs use our instruments, reagents and software for testing and screening genetic abnormalities and certain disorders and diseases, including Down syndrome, hypothyroidism, muscular dystrophy, infertility and various metabolic conditions. We also develop technolo