Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 64 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 64 Item 9B. Other Information 65 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 66 Item 11. Executive Compensation 66 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 66 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 66 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 66 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 67 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 73 Signatures 74 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Table of Contents DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including but not limited to statements about our estimates, expectations, plans, objectives, strategies, financial condition, expected impact of regulatory developments and legal proceedings, opportunities in our industries and businesses and other trends and projections for the next fiscal quarter and beyond. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may also be identified by words such as anticipate, intend, plan, goal, seek, believe, estimate, expect, predict, continue, future, will, would, could, can, may and similar terms. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this Form 10-K and represent management s current views and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, events or results and involve potential known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Accordingly, actual performance, events or results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including, but not limited to: significant risks related to the construction and operation of our satellites, such as the risk of not being able to timely complete the construction of or material malfunction on one or more of our satellites, changes in the space weather environment that could interfere with the operation of our satellites and our general lack of commercial insurance coverage on our satellites; our ability to implement and/or realize benefits of our domestic and/or international investments, commercial alliances, partnerships, joint ventures, acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic initiatives and transactions including, without limitation, the BSS Transaction (as defined herein); lawsuits relating to the BSS Transaction could result in substantial costs; our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our current satellites and any future satellite we may construct or acquire; risks related to our foreign operations and other uncertainties associated with doing business internationally, including changes in foreign exchange rates between foreign currencies and the United States dollar, economic instability, political disturbances and the consequences of being subject to foreign regulation and foreign legal proceedings, including increased operations costs and potential fines and penalties for violations, which may be substantial; the failure of third-party providers of components, manufacturing, installation services and customer support services to appropriately deliver the contracted goods or services; and our ability to bring advanced technologies to market to keep pace with our customers and competitors. Other factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I,