Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 55 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 55 Item 9B. Other Information 56 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 56 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11. Executive Compensation 56 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 57 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 57 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 58 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 63 Signatures 64 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F- 1 Table of Contents DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including but not limited to statements about our estimates, expectations, future developments, plans, objectives, strategies, financial condition, expected impact of regulatory developments and legal proceedings, opportunities in our industries and businesses and other trends and projections for the next fiscal quarter and beyond. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may also be identified by words such as anticipate, intend, plan, goal, seek, believe, estimate, expect, predict, project, continue, future, will, would, could, can, may and similar terms. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this Form 10-K and represent management s current views and assumptions based on past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, events or results and involve potential known and unknown risks, uncertainties, including the impact of the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19), and other factors, many of which may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition both the near- and long-term. Accordingly, actual performance, events or results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including, but not limited to: significant risks related to our ability to operate and control our satellites, operational and environmental risks related to our owned and leased satellites, and risks related to our satellites under construction; our ability and the ability of third parties with whom we engage to operate our business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including regulatory and competitive considerations; our ability to implement and/or realize benefits of our investments and other strategic initiatives; legal proceedings relating to the BSS Transaction or other matters that could result in substantial costs and material adverse effects to our business; risks related to our foreign operations and other uncertainties associated with doing business internationally; risks related to our dependency upon third-party providers; and risks related to our human capital resources. Other factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I,