Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 51 Item 1C Cybersecurity 52 Item 2. Properties 53 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 53 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 53 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 Item 6. [Reserved] 54 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 101 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 103 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B. Other Information 104 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 104 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 104 Item 11. Executive Compensation 105 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 105 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 105 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 114 Signatures 115 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Table of Contents DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Unless otherwise required by the context, in this report, the words EchoStar, the Company, we, our and us refer to EchoStar Corporation and its subsidiaries, DISH Network refers to DISH Network Corporation, our wholly owned subsidiary, and its subsidiaries, and DISH DBS refers to DISH DBS Corporation, a wholly-owned, indirect subsidiary of DISH Network, and its subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, in particular, statements about our plans, objectives and strategies, growth opportunities in our industries and businesses, our expectations regarding future results, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, our estimates regarding the impact of regulatory developments and legal proceedings, and other trends and projections. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts and may be identified by words such as future, anticipate, intend, plan, goal, seek, believe, estimate, expect, predict, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and represent management s current views and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, events or results and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond our control. Accordingly, actual performance, events or results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those summarized below: SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Integration Although we expect that the Merger will result in synergies and other benefits, those synergies and benefits may not be realized in the amounts anticipated, or may not be realized within the expected timeframe, or at all, and risks associated with the foregoing may also result from any extended delay in the Integration. The market price for shares of our common stock may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically affected the market prices of shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock and EchoStar Class A Common Stock. Competition and Economic Risks We face intense and increasing competition from providers of video, broadband and/or wireless services. Changing consumer behavior and new technologies in our Pay-TV and/or Wireless business may reduce our subscriber activations and may cause our subscribers to purchase fewer services from us or to cancel our services altogether, resulting in less revenue to us. We face certain risks competing in the wireless services industry and operating a facilities-based wireless services business. Our pay-TV competitors may be able to leverage their relationships with programmers to reduce their programming costs and/or offer exclusive content that will place them at a competitive advantage to us. Through the MNSA and the NSA, we depend on T-Mobile and AT T to provide network services to our Wireless subscribers. Our failure to effectively manage these relationships, including without limitation, our minimum commitments, any system failure in their wireless networks, interruption in the services provided to us, and/or the termination of the MNSA or the NSA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with the MNOs whose networks we rely on to provide wireless services to our customers, and they may seek to limit, reduce or terminate our network access to the extent that it becomes competitively advantageous to do so. If we are unable to take advantage of technological developments on a timely basis, or at all, we may experience a decline in demand for our services or face challenges in implementing or evolving our business strategy. i Table of Contents Operational and Service Delivery Risks Any deterioration in our operational performance, subscriber activations and churn rate and subscriber satisfaction could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on others to provide the programming that we offer to our Pay-TV subscribers and, if we fail to obtain or lose access to certain programming, our Pay-TV subscriber activations and our subscriber churn rate may be negatively impacted. We have limited satellite capacity and any failures or reduced capacity, caused by, among other things, operational and environmental risks, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extreme weather may result in risk of damage to our infrastructure and therefore our ability to provide services, and may lead to changes in federal, state and foreign government regulation, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key products or services to us, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on independent third parties to solicit orders for our services that represent a meaningful percentage of our total gross new subscriber activations. Risks Related to our Human Capital We rely on highly skilled personnel for our business, and any inability to hire and retain key personnel or to hire qualified personnel may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business growth and customer retention strategies rely in part on the work of technically skilled employees. Risks Related to our Products and Technology Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We are, and may become, party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. If our products contain defects, we could be subject to significant costs to correct such defects and our product and network service contracts could be delayed or cancelled, which could adversely affect our revenue. Risks Related to Cybersecurity We have experienced and may experience in the future consistent cyber-attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems and a ny failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure and communications systems or those of third parties that we use in our operations could disrupt or harm our business. The confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our services and products depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and other enabling systems. Acquisition and Capital Structure Risks We have substantial debt outstanding and may incur additional debt and covenants in our Indentures could limit our ability to undertake certain types of activities and adversely affect our liquidity. We may pursue acquisitions , dispositions, capital expenditures, the development, acquisition and launch of new satellites and other strategic initiatives to complement or expand our business , which may not be successful and we may lose a portion or all of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. ii Table of Contents We have made substantial investments to acquire certain wireless spectrum licenses and other related assets, and may be unable to realize a return on these assets. We will need additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, to fund current obligations, continue investing in our business and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We are controlled by one principal stockholder who is our Chairman. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business Our services depend on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. Other factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, those discussed in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. All cautionary statements made or referred to herein should be read as being applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear. Investors should consider the risks and uncertainties described or referred to herein and should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW EchoStar Corporation is a holding company that was organized in October 2007 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada. Its subsidiaries (which together with EchoStar Corporation are referred to as EchoStar, the Company, we, us and/or our, unless otherwise required by the context). Our Class A common stock is publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ( NASDAQ ) under the symbol SATS. Our principal executive offices are located at 9601 South Meridian Boulevard, Englewood, Colorado 80112 and our telephone number is (303) 723- 1000. Recent Developments Merger with DISH Network On December 31, 2023, we completed the acquisition of DISH Network pursuant to the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 2, 2023 (the Amended Merger Agreement ), by and among us, EAV Corp., a Nevada corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary ( Merger Sub ), and DISH Network, pursuant to which we acquired DISH Network by means of the merger of Merger Sub with and into DISH Network (the Merger ), with DISH Network surviving the Merger as our wholly owned subsidiary. On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Amended Merger Agreement, on December 31, 2023, at 11:59 p.m. ET (the Effective Time ), each share of DISH Network Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ( DISH Network Class A Common Stock ) and DISH Network Class C common stock, par value $0.01 per share ( DISH Network Class C Common Stock ) outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, was converted into the right to receive a number of validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of EchoStar Class A common stock, par value $0.001 per share ( EchoStar Class A Common Stock ) equal to 0.350877 (the Exchange Ratio ). On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Amended Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, each share of DISH Network Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share ( DISH Network Class B Common Stock and, together with DISH Network Class A Common Stock and DISH Network Class C Common Stock, DISH Network Common Stock ), outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time was converted into the right to receive a number of validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of EchoStar Class B common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the EchoStar Class B Common Stock and, together with the EchoStar Class A Common Stock, the EchoStar Common Stock ), equal to the Exchange Ratio. Any shares of DISH Network Common Stock that were held in DISH Network s treasury or held directly by us or Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time were cancelled and cease to exist and no consideration was paid in respect thereof. All shares of the DISH Network Class A Common Stock were delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market ( NASDAQ ) and deregistered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The EchoStar Common Stock issued to the Ergen DISH Stockholders (as defined in the Amended Merger Agreement) as Merger consideration was issued through a private placement exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ). At the Effective Time, each share of DISH Network Class A Common Stock owned by the Ergen DISH Stockholders immediately prior to the Effective Time was converted into the right to receive a number of shares of EchoStar Class A Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio, and (b) each share of DISH Network Class B Common Stock owned by the Ergen DISH Stockholders immediately prior to the Effective Time was converted into the right to receive a number of shares of EchoStar Class B Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio. Concurrently with the entry into the Amended Merger Agreement, the Ergen EchoStar Stockholders (as defined in the Amended Merger Agreement), the Ergen DISH Stockholders (collectively, the Ergen Stockholders ), we and DISH Network entered into an amended and restated support agreement (the Amended Support Agreement ). 1 Table of Contents In connection with the completion of the Merger, and pursuant to the Amended and Restated Support Agreement, the Ergen Stockholders, we and DISH Network, on December 31, 2023, we and the Ergen Stockholders entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ). The Registration Rights Agreement provides the Ergen Stockholders, and their affiliates who become parties thereto, with certain registration rights relating to the shares of EchoStar Common Stock, which they beneficially own, including: (i) the right to demand shelf registration as well as registration on long and short form registration statements and; (ii) piggyback registration rights to be included in future registered offerings by us of our equity securities, in each case, subject to certain requirements and customary conditions. The Registration Rights Agreement sets forth customary registration procedures, including an agreement by us to make appropriate officers available to participate in roadshow presentations and cooperate as reasonably requested in connection with any underwritten offerings. We also agreed to indemnify the Ergen Stockholders and their affiliates with respect to liabilities resulting from untrue statements or omissions in any registration statement used in any such registration, other than untrue statements or omissions based on or contained in information furnished to us for use in a registration statement by a participating stockholder. For more information and a copy of the Amended Merger Agreement, the Amended Support Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, see the Form 8-K of EchoStar Corporation filed on October 3, 2023 and the Form 8-K of EchoStar Corporation filed on January 2, 2024. With the Merger complete, we are currently focused on the process of integrating our and DISH Network s business in a manner that facilitates synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and achieves other anticipated benefits (the Integration ). Segments EchoStar Corporation is a holding company. Its subsidiaries operate four primary business segments: (1) Pay-TV; (2) Retail Wireless; (3) 5G Network Deployment; and (4) Broadband and Satellite Services. Pay-TV We offer pay-TV services under the DISH brand and the SLING brand (collectively Pay-TV services). The DISH branded pay-TV service consists of, among other things, Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) licenses authorizing us to use direct broadcast satellite ( DBS ) and Fixed Satellite Service ( FSS ) spectrum, our owned and leased satellites, receiver systems, broadcast operations, a leased fiber optic network, in-home service and call center operations, and certain other assets utilized in our operations ( DISH TV ). We also design, develop and distribute receiver systems and provide digital broadcast operations, including satellite uplinking/downlinking, transmission and other services to third-party pay-TV providers. The SLING branded pay-TV services consist of, among other things, multichannel, live-linear and on-demand streaming over-the-top ( OTT ) Internet-based domestic, international, Latino and Freestream video programming services ( SLING TV ). As of December 31, 2023, we had 8.526 million Pay-TV subscribers in the United States, including 6.471 million DISH TV subscribers and 2.055 million SLING TV subscribers. Retail Wireless We offer nationwide prepaid and postpaid retail wireless services to subscribers primarily under our Boost Mobile , Boost postpaid and Gen Mobile brands ( Retail Wireless services), as well as a competitive portfolio of wireless devices. Prepaid wireless subscribers generally pay in advance for monthly access to wireless talk, text, and data services. Postpaid wireless subscribers are qualified to pay after receiving wireless talk, text, and data services, and may also qualify for financing arrangements for wireless devices. We are currently operating our Retail Wireless segment primarily as a mobile virtual network operator ( MVNO ) as we continue our 5G Network Deployment and commercialize our 5G Network, as defined below. We are transitioning our Retail Wireless segment to a mobile network operator ( MNO ) as our 5G Network becomes commercially available and we are currently activating subscribers onto our 5G Network in markets where we have reached voice over new radio ( VoNR ) . 2 Table of Contents As an MVNO, today we depend on T-Mobile and AT T to provide us with network services under the amended Master Network Services Agreement ( MNSA ) and Network Services Agreement (the NSA ), respectively. Under the NSA, we expect AT T will become our primary network services provider. As of December 31, 2023, we had 7.378 million Wireless subscribers. 5G Network Deployment We have invested a total of over $30 billion in Wireless spectrum licenses, which includes over $10 billion in initial noncontrolling investments in certain entities. The $30 billion of investments related to Wireless spectrum licenses does not include $9 billion of capitalized interest related to the carrying value of such licenses. See Note 2 and Note 15 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. We plan to commercialize our Wireless spectrum licenses through the completion of the nation s first cloud-native, Open Radio Access Network ( O-RAN ) based 5G network (our 5G Network Deployment ). We have committed to deploy a facilities-based 5G broadband network (our 5G Network ) capable of serving increasingly larger portions of the U.S. population at different deadlines, including 20% of the U.S. population by June 2022 and 70% of the U.S. population by June 2023. On June 14, 2022, we announced we had successfully reached our 20% population coverage require ment. In addition, we announced and certified to the FCC that as of June 14, 2023, we offer 5G broadband service to over 73% of the U.S. population, or more than 246 million Americans nationwide. On September 29, 2023, the FCC confirmed we have met all of our June 14, 2023 band-specific 5G deployment commitments, and two of our three nationwide 5G commitments. The single remaining 5G commitment, that at least 70% of the U.S. population has access to average download speeds equal to 35 Mbps, will be confirmed using the drive test methodology agreed to and approved by the FCC. We have six months from September 29, 2023 to complete this drive test. We now have the largest commercial deployment of 5G VoNR in the world reaching approximately 200 million Americans and 5G broadband service reaching approximately 250 million Americans. Broadband and Satellite Services We are an industry leader in both networking technologies and services, innovating to deliver the solutions that power a connected future for people, enterprises and things everywhere. We provide broadband services to consumer customers, which include home and small to medium-sized businesses. We also provide satellite and multi-transport technologies and managed network services to telecommunications providers, aeronautical service providers, civilian and defense government entities, and other enterprise customers. Our EchoStar XXIV satellite began service in December 2023, bringing additional broadband capacity to North and South America. We will leverage EchoStar XXIV to serve the unserved and underserved consumer markets in the Americas as well as enterprise and government markets. We also design, provide and install gateway and terminal equipment to customers for other satellite systems. In addition, we design, develop, construct and provide telecommunication networks comprising satellite ground segment systems and terminals to mobile system operators and other enterprise customers. We also offer a robust suite of integrated, multi-transport solutions to enable airline and airline service providers to deliver reliable in-flight network connectivity serving both commercial and business aviation. PAY-TV Business Strategy Pay-TV Our Pay-TV segment business strategy is to be the best provider of video services in the United States by providing products with the best technology, outstanding customer service, and great value. We promote our Pay-TV services by providing our subscribers with a better price-to-value relationship and experience than those available from other subscription television service providers. We market our SLING TV services to consumers who do not subscribe to traditional satellite and cable pay-TV services, as well as to current and recent traditional pay-TV subscribers who desire a lower cost alternative. 3 Table of Contents Products with the Best Technology. We offer a wide selection of local and national HD programming and are a technology leader in our industry, offering award-winning DVRs (including our Hopper whole-home HD DVR), multiple tuner receivers, video on demand and external hard drives. We offer several SLING TV services, including SLING Orange (our single-stream SLING domestic service), SLING Blue (our multi-stream Sling domestic service), International, Latino and Freestream, among others, as well as add-on extras, direct to consumer services, pay-per-view events and a cloud-based DVR service. Outstanding Customer Service. We strive to provide outstanding customer service by, among other things, improving the quality of the initial installation of subscriber equipment, improving the reliability of our equipment, better educating our customers about our products and services, and resolving customer problems promptly and effectively when they arise. Great Value. We have historically been viewed as the low-cost provider in the pay-TV industry in the United States. However, today with DISH TV, we are focused on a message of Service, Value and Technology. We also offer a differentiated customer experience with our award-winning Hopper platform that integrates voice control powered by Google Assistant, access to apps including Netflix, Prime Video and YouTube, and the ability to watch live, recorded and On Demand content anywhere with the DISH Anywhere mobile application. As another example, our SLING Orange service and our SLING Blue service are two of the lowest priced live-linear online streaming services in the industry. Products and Services Pay-TV DISH TV services. We offer a wide selection of video services under the DISH TV brand, with access to hundreds of channels depending on the level of subscription. Our standard programming packages generally include programming provided by national cable networks. We also offer programming packages that include local broadcast networks, specialty sports channels, premium movie channels and Latino and international programming. Our Latino and international programming packages allow subscribers to choose from over 300 channels in over 20 languages. In addition, we offer our DISH TV subscribers streaming access through DISH On Demand to thousands of movies and television shows via their TV or Internet-connected devices. Our DISH TV subscribers also have the ability to use dishanywhere.com and our DISH Anywhere mobile applications on Internet-connected devices to view authorized content, search program listings and remotely control certain features of their DVRs. Dishanywhere.com and our DISH Anywhere mobile applications provide access to thousands of movies and television shows. SLING TV services. Our SLING TV services require an Internet connection and are available on multiple streaming-capable devices including, among others, streaming media devices, TVs, tablets, computers, game consoles and phones. We offer domestic, International, Latino and Freestream video programming services. We offer domestic SLING TV services as a single-stream service branded SLING Orange and a multi-stream service branded SLING Blue, which includes, among other things, the ability to stream on up to three devices simultaneously. We also offer add-on extras, direct to consumer services, pay-per-view events and a cloud-based DVR service. Distribution Channels Pay-TV We operate in the consumer market in the United States and use print, radio, television and Internet media, on a local and national basis to motivate potential subscribers to contact DISH TV and SLING TV, visit our websites or contact independent third party retailers. We often offer our new DISH TV subscribers certain programming at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing during a commitment period. We often offer our new SLING TV subscribers free trials and/or streaming-capable devices at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing. 4 Table of Contents While we offer receiver systems and programming through direct sales channels, a meaningful percentage of our gross new DISH TV subscriber activations are generated through independent third parties such as small retailers, direct marketing groups, local and regional consumer electronics stores, nationwide retailers, and telecommunications companies. In general, we pay these independent third parties a mix of upfront and monthly incentives to solicit orders for our services and provide customer service. We offer our SLING TV services through direct sales channels and third-party marketing agreements. We incur significant upfront costs to provide our new DISH TV subscribers with in-home equipment, which most of our new DISH TV subscribers lease from us. We also incur significant upfront costs to install satellite dishes and receivers in the homes of our new DISH TV subscribers. Competition Pay-TV Competition has intensified in recent years as the pay-TV industry has matured. We and our competitors increasingly must seek to attract a greater proportion of new subscribers from each other s existing subscriber bases rather than from first-time purchasers of pay-TV services. We face substantial competition from established pay-TV providers and broadband service providers and increasing competition from companies providing/facilitating the delivery of video content via the Internet to computers, televisions, and other streaming and mobile devices, including wireless service providers. In recent years, industry consolidation and convergence has created competitors with greater scale and multiple product/service offerings. These developments, among others, have contributed to intense and increasing competition, and we expect such competition to continue. We incur significant costs to retain our existing DISH TV subscribers, generally as a result of upgrading their equipment to next generation receivers, primarily including our Hopper receivers, and by providing retention credits. Our DISH TV subscriber retention costs may vary significantly from period to period. Many of our competitors have been especially aggressive by offering discounted programming and services for both new and existing subscribers, including, but not limited to, bundled offers combining broadband, video and/or wireless services and other promotional offers. Certain competitors have been able to subsidize the price of video services with the price of broadband and/or wireless services. Our Pay-TV services also face increased competition from programmers and other companies who distribute video directly to consumers over the Internet, as well as traditional satellite television providers, cable companies and large telecommunications companies that are increasing their Internet-based video offerings. We also face competition from providers of video content, many of which are providers of programming content to us, that distribute content over the Internet incl