Item 1 Business 2 Item 1A Risk Factors 10 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2 Properties 22 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6 Reserved 25 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Index for Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 46 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 80 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 82 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 82 Item 9B Other Information 84 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 84 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 85 Item 11 Executive Compensation 85 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 85 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 85 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 85 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 86 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 92 SIGNATURES 93 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, seeks or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as will, should, could, may, aims, intends, or projects. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any other public statement made by us, including by our management, may turn out to be incorrect. We are including this cautionary note to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( 10-K or Report ) for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2022 ( fiscal 2022 ), Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as Starbucks, the Company, we, us or our. Starbucks is the premier roaster, marketer and retailer of specialty coffee in the world, operating in 83 markets. Formed in 1985, Starbucks Corporation s common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market ( Nasdaq ) under the symbol SBUX. We purchase and roast high-quality coffees that we sell, along with handcrafted coffee, tea and other beverages and a variety of high-quality food items through company-operated stores. We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels, such as licensed stores as well as grocery and foodservice through our Global Coffee Alliance with Nestl S.A. ( Nestl ). In addition to our flagship Starbucks Coffee brand, we sell goods and services under the following brands: Teavana , Seattle s Best Coffee , Ethos , Starbucks Reserve and Princi . Our primary objective is to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. We believe the continuous investments in our brand and operations will deliver long-term targeted revenue and income growth. This includes expansion of our global store base, adding stores in both existing, developed markets such as the U.S. and in higher growth markets such as China, as well as optimizing the mix of company-operated and licensed stores around the world. In addition, by leveraging experiences gained through our stores and elsewhere, we continue to drive beverage, equipment, process and technology innovation, including in our industry-leading digital platform. We strive to regularly offer consumers new, innovative coffee and other products in a variety of forms, across new categories, diverse channels and alternative store formats. Starbucks has always been a different kind of company one deep with purpose, where we work together to create a positive impact in the world. With coffee at our core, we pursue ambitious goals for our partners (employees), our communities and our planet because we believe it is our role and responsibility to create a thriving business powered by thriving people for a thriving planet and communities. Starbucks work to uplift one another extends well beyond our partners to the communities where we do business around the world. We are committed to responsible and ethical sourcing led by Coffee and Farmer Equity (C.A.F.E.) Practices, the company s third-party verification program and the cornerstone of our approach to ethical sourcing coffee, as well as a more sustainable, resilient future for our planet and for our communities. Human Capital Management We invest in the well-being the mental, physical and financial health of every partner through our practices, policies and benefits. This work is grounded in the belief that we are at our best when we create inclusive and welcoming environments, where we uplift one another with dignity, respect and kindness. And we are hard at work uplifting our communities and building environments in our stores that are welcoming and safe. We believe the strength of our workforce is one of the significant contributors to our success as a global brand that leads with purpose. Therefore, one of our core strategies is to invest in and support our partners to differentiate our brand, products and services in the competitive specialty coffee market, including the following areas of focus: Oversight and Management We recognize the diversity of customers, partners and communities and believe in creating an inclusive and equitable environment that represents a broad spectrum of backgrounds and cultures. Working under these principles, our Partner Resources Organization is tasked with managing employment-related matters, including recruiting and hiring, onboarding and training, compensation planning, performance management and professional development. Our Board of Directors (the Board ) and Board committees provide oversight on certain human capital matters, including our Inclusion and Diversity programs and initiatives. As noted in its charter, our Compensation and Management Development Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing Starbucks partner resource programs and initiatives, including healthcare and other benefits, as well as our management development and succession planning practices and strategies. Our Audit and Compliance Committee works closely with the Risk Management Committee, led by Starbucks cfo and general counsel, to monitor and mitigate current and emerging labor and human capital management risks. Furthermore, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, in consultation with management, including our chief partner officer and chief inclusion and diversity officer, annually evaluates the effectiveness of our social responsibility policies, goals and programs, which also include partner-related issues. These reports and recommendations to the Board and its committees are part of the broader framework that guides how Starbucks should attract, retain and develop a skilled workforce that aligns with our values and strategies. We regularly conduct anonymous surveys to seek feedback from our partners on a variety of topics, including confidence in company leadership, competitiveness of our compensation and benefits package, career growth opportunities and recommendations on how we can remain an employer of choice. The results are shared with our partners and reviewed by 2 Table of Contents senior leadership, who analyze areas of progress or deterioration and prioritize actions and activities in response to this feedback to drive meaningful improvements in partner engagement. Our management and cross-functional teams also work closely to evaluate human capital management issues such as partner retention, workplace safety, harassment and bullying, as well as to implement measures to mitigate these risks. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We are committed to creating a welcoming and inclusive environment. We believe it is our responsibility to advance racial and social equity, and we are committed to furthering that work with intention, transparency and accountability. We continue to welcome our partners, customers, civil rights and community leaders, along with our chief inclusion and diversity officer, to advise us along this journey. Starbucks has made specific racial equity commitments based on our principles of being intentional, transparent and accountable at all levels: Being intentional in cultivating a culture of inclusion, with a focus on partner retention and development. Expanding our mentorship program designed to foster and deepen understanding of inclusion, diversity, equity and accessibility and provide partners in corporate and retail roles, including Black, Indigenous and people of color ( BIPOC ) and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and/or questioning ( LGBTQ+ ) partners, development opportunities and connections with senior leaders. Being transparent in our approach to Inclusion and Diversity goal setting and progress. Publicly sharing workforce diversity data. Setting annual Inclusion and Diversity goals based on retention rates and progress towards achieving BIPOC representation. Our goal is for at least 30% of all corporate roles and at least 40% of all retail and manufacturing roles to be held by BIPOC partners in the U.S. by 2025. Holding ourselves accountable at the highest levels of the organization. Incorporating metrics focused on building inclusive and diverse teams into our executive compensation programs. Joining the Board Diversity Action Alliance to act alongside other companies similarly committed to increasing racially and ethnically diverse representation on corporate boards. Publicizing self-identified race/ethnicity/gender of each member of our Board. Total Rewards We have demonstrated a history of investing in our workforce by offering competitive salaries and wages by continuously assessing the current business environment and labor market. We have consistently made enhancements in wages in order to attract talent to support our growth strategy and to elevate the customer experience. To foster a stronger sense of ownership and align the interests of partners with shareholders, restricted stock units are provided to eligible non-executive partners under our broad-based stock incentive programs. Furthermore, we offer comprehensive, locally relevant and innovative benefits to all eligible partners. In the U.S., our largest and most mature market, these include: Comprehensive health insurance coverage is offered to partners working an average of 20 hours or more each week. 100% upfront tuition coverage is offered through the Starbucks College Achievement Plan for partners to earn a first-time bachelor's degree online at Arizona State University. 100% paid parental leave is available to new parents that welcome a child through birth, adoption or foster placement and work an average of 20 hours or more each week. A Partner and Family Sick Time program is provided and allows partners to accrue paid sick time based on hours worked and use that time for themselves or family members in need of care. Care@Work benefit provides partners with backup care benefits for children and adults at a small cost to partners, as well as free unlimited senior care planning services. This benefit includes up to 30 days of backup care services through the end of fiscal 2022, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. We view mental health as a fundamental part of our humanity and provide a comprehensive suite of related programs and benefits. These include a free subscription to Headspace, an online application that enables guided mediation, and 20 free mental health therapy or coaching sessions annually with Lyra. 3 Table of Contents Outside of the U.S., we have provided other innovative benefits to help address market-specific needs, such as providing interest-free loans to our U.K. partners to help cover rental deposits, mental health services in Canada, and in China, a monthly housing subsidy for full-time Starbucks baristas and shift supervisors, as well as comprehensive health insurance coverage for parents of partners. Role-based Support To help our partners succeed in their roles, we emphasize continuous training and development opportunities. These include, but are not limited to, safety and security protocols, updates on new products and service offerings and deployment of technologies. Training provided through our Pour Over sessions, which are a series of inspiring talks with thought leaders to help partners understand how to bring the Starbucks Experience to life, include a wide variety of topics such as achievable goal setting, giving and receiving constructive feedback and effective engagement with customers and communities. To help further promote an inclusive culture and to better serve our customers, we encourage U.S.-based partners to enroll in the To Be Welcoming courses we created in partnership with Arizona State University to address different forms of bias and discrimination. Pay Equity To be an employer of choice and maintain the strength of our workforce, we consistently assess the current business environment and labor market to refine our compensation and benefits programs and other resources available to our partners. We previously achieved and currently maintain 100 percent pay equity in the U.S. for women and men and people of all races for partners performing similar work. We have also achieved gender pay equity in China and Canada, two of our largest markets outside of the U.S., and we made a commitment to achieve gender pay equity in all company-operated markets. Further, we have formulated pay-equity principles which provide equal footing, transparency and accountability as best practices that help address known, systemic barriers to global pay equity. As of October 2, 2022, Starbucks employed approximately 402,000 people worldwide. In the U.S., Starbucks employed approximately 258,000 people, with approximately 248,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in corporate support, store development, roasting, manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations. Approximately 144,000 employees were employed outside of the U.S., with approximately 140,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in regional support operations. Some Starbucks partners in company-operated stores are represented by unions, though it is an immaterial portion of our total workforce. We believe our efforts in managing our workforce have been effective, evidenced by a strong Starbucks culture and a good relationship between the company and our partners. Information about our Executive Officers Name Age Position Howard Schultz 69 interim chief executive officer Laxman Narasimhan 55 chief executive officer-elect Michael Conway 56 group president, International and Channel Development Zabrina Jenkins 52 acting executive vice president and general counsel Rachel Ruggeri 53 executive vice president, chief financial officer Howard Schultz is the founder of Starbucks Corporation and has served as interim chief executive officer and a member of the Starbucks Board since April 2022. Mr. Schultz previously served as chairman of the Board of Starbucks since its inception in 1985 and until June 2018, and since 2018 has held the role of founder and chairman emeritus of Starbucks. He also previously served as chief executive officer from January 2008 to April 2017 and from November 1985 to June 2000, and as president from January 2008 until March 2015 and from November 1985 to June 1994. From June 2000 to February 2005, Mr. Schultz also held the title of chief global strategist. Mr. Schultz also held leadership and director roles with Il Giornale Coffee Company and Starbucks Coffee Company, which were predecessors to Starbucks. Laxman Narasimhan joined Starbucks as its chief executive officer-elect on October 1, 2022. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Narasimhan served as Chief Executive Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc ( Reckitt ), a FTSE 12 listed British multinational consumer health, hygiene and nutrition company, since September 2019. Prior to joining Reckitt, Mr. Narasimhan held various roles at PepsiCo from 2012 to 2019. He served as PepsiCo s Group Chief Commercial Officer until July 2019, and prior to that beginning in 2012 served as Chief Executive Officer - Latin America, Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa, Chief Executive Officer - Latin America and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Americas Foods. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Mr. Narasimhan spent 19 years at McKinsey Company, where he focused on its consumer, retail and technology practices in the U.S., Asia and India. Mr. Narasimhan currently serves on the Board of Directors of Verizon Communications, Inc., a NYSE-listed telecommunications company. Mr. Narasimhan is a trustee of the Brookings Institution and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. 4 Table of Contents Michael Conway joined Starbucks in March 2013 and was named group president, International and Channel Development in June 2021, where he is responsible for leading Starbucks retail growth and operations in over 80 markets across Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean and growth for the Global Channel Development business, which consists of consumer packaged goods, ready-to-drink businesses and strategic partnerships, including those with Nestl , PepsiCo and other key business partners. Prior to this, he served as executive vice president and president, International Licensed Markets, from March 2020 to June 2021. He also served as executive vice president and president, Starbucks Canada, executive vice president and president for Starbucks Licensed Stores business for the United States and Latin America and executive vice president and president of Starbucks Global Channel Development from December 2014 to March 2020. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of McCormick Company, Incorporated, a NYSE-listed spice and extract manufacturing company. Zabrina Jenkins joined the Starbucks legal department in 2005 and was named acting executive vice president and general counsel in April 2022, where she leads legal and regulatory affairs, global security and ethics and compliance for the company. Prior to being named acting executive vice president, she served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel from February 2020 to April 2022. She previously held roles as senior vice president, deputy general counsel, interim chief ethics and compliance officer, lead legal advisor for Teavana and was a member of the Starbucks 2018 Philadelphia incident crisis management response team. She serves as an independent board director for Retail Opportunity Investments Corp., a Nasdaq-listed national manager of retail shopping centers, and is a member of the Board of Trustees for Central Washington University. Rachel Ruggeri joined Starbucks in 2001 as a member of the accounting team and was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in February 2021. In this leadership role, Rachel is responsible for the global finance function for Starbucks, which includes developing and executing the financial strategies that enable the long-term growth of the Company. Prior to her promotion in 2021, she served as senior vice president of Americas with responsibility for the retail portfolio across the segment, including company-operated and licensed stores from June 2020 to January 2021. From September 2016 to June 2020, she held various leadership roles in finance both internal and external to Starbucks, including Chief Financial Officer of Continental Mills from July 2018 to May 2020 and prior to that she was senior vice president of Finance at Starbucks in support of the Americas and Global Retail from September 2016 to June 2018. She also served as vice president of Finance from December 2010 to September 2016 supporting Corporate Financial Planning Analysis and the U.S. Retail business. Segment Financial Information Segment information is prepared on the same basis that our management reviews financial information for operational decision-making purposes. We have three reportable operating segments: 1) North America, which is inclusive of the U.S. and Canada; 2) International, which is inclusive of China, Japan, Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Caribbean; and 3) Channel Development. Non-reportable operating segments and unallocated corporate expenses are reported within Corporate and Other. Revenues from our reportable operating segments as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal 2022 were as follows: North America (72%), International (22%) and Channel Development (6%). Our North America and International segments include both company-operated and licensed stores. Our North America segment is our most mature business and has achieved significant scale. Certain markets within our International operations are in various stages of development and may require more extensive support, relative to their current levels of revenue and operating income, than our North America operations. Our Channel Development segment includes roasted whole bean and ground coffees, Seattle s Best Coffee, Starbucks- and Teavana-branded single-serve products, a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, such as Frappuccino and Starbucks Doubleshot , foodservice products and other branded products sold worldwide outside of our company-operated and licensed stores. A large portion of our Channel Development business operates under a licensed model of the Global Coffee Alliance with Nestl , while our global ready-to-drink businesses operate under collaborative relationships with PepsiCo, Inc., Tingyi-Ashi Beverages Holding Co., Ltd., Arla Foods amba, Nestl and others. 5 Table of Contents Revenue Components We generate the majority of our revenues through company-operated stores and licensed stores. Company-operated and Licensed Store Summary as of October 2, 2022: North America As a % of Total North America Stores International As a % of Total International Stores Total As a % of Total Stores Company-operated stores 10,216 59 % 8,037 44 % 18,253 51 % Licensed stores 7,079 41 % 10,379 56 % 17,458 49 % Total 17,295 100 % 18,416 100 % 35,711 100 % The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market generally varies based on several factors, including our ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity, profitability and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks and our ability to leverage the support infrastructure within a geographic region. Company-operated Stores Revenue from company-operated stores accounted for 82% of total net revenues during fiscal 2022. Our retail objective is to be the leading retailer and brand of coffee and tea in each of our target markets by selling the finest quality coffee, tea and related products, as well as complementary food offerings, and by providing each customer with a unique Starbucks Experience . The Starbucks Experience is built upon superior customer service, convenience and a seamless digital experience as well as safe, clean and well-maintained stores that reflect the personalities of the communities in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty. Our strategy for expanding our global retail business is to increase our category share in a disciplined manner, by selectively opening additional stores in new and existing markets, as well as increasing sales in existing stores, to support our long-term strategic objective to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. Store growth in specific existing markets will vary due to many factors, including expected financial returns, the maturity of the market, economic conditions, consumer behavior and local business environment. Company-operated store data for the fiscal year-ended October 2, 2022: Stores Open as of Stores Open as of Oct 3, 2021 Opened Closed Transfers Net Oct 2, 2022 North America: U.S. 8,947 437 (116) (3) 318 9,265 Canada 908 44 (6) 38 946 Siren Retail 6 (1) (1) 5 Total North America 9,861 481 (123) (3) 355 10,216 International: China 5,358 724 (63) 661 6,019 Japan 1,546 102 (18) 84 1,630 U.K. 298 29 (6) (3) 20 318 All Other 65 2 (2) 65 Siren Retail 5 5 Total International 7,272 857 (89) (3) 765 8,037 Total company-operated 17,133 1,338 (212) (6) 1,120 18,253 Starbucks company-operated stores are typically located in high-traffic, high-visibility locations. Our ability to vary the size and format of our stores allows us to locate them in or near a variety of settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, university campuses and rural and off-highway locations. We are continuing the expansion of our stores, particularly drive-thru formats that provide a higher degree of access and convenience, and alternative store formats, which are designed to provide a more streamlined customer experience in dense metropolitan areas. In fiscal 2022, we announced our plan in the U.S. market to increase efficiency while elevating the partner and customer experience (the Reinvention Plan ). We believe the investments in partner wages and trainings will increase retention and 6 Table of Contents productivity while the acceleration of purpose-built store concepts and innovations in technologies will provide additional convenience and connection with our customers. In our major international markets, we also continue to invest in technology and establish partnerships with third parties with relevant expertise to increase digital adoption to provide convenience and elevate the customer experience. In China, we leverage platforms such as Starbucks Now TM stores to enable a seamless integration of physical and digital customer touchpoints. Orders may be placed in advance through the Starbucks Mobile App or Starbucks Delivers TM and can be conveniently picked up by customers and delivery providers in these express retail format locations. These strategies align closely with rapidly evolving customer preferences, including higher levels of mobile ordering, more contactless pick-up experiences and reduced in-store congestion, all of which naturally allow for greater physical distancing. We announced plans to invest in a digital third place that will offer members access to new benefits, a digital community and immersive coffee experiences, giving our customers new ways to experience and connect with Starbucks. We believe our continued efforts to transform our store portfolio and elevate technology will enhance the customer experience and position Starbucks for long-term growth. Retail sales mix by product type for company-operated stores: Fiscal Year Ended Oct 2, 2022 Oct 3, 2021 Sep 27, 2020 Beverages 74 % 74 % 75 % Food 22 % 21 % 20 % Other (1) 4 % 5 % 5 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Other primarily consists of sales of packaged and single-serve coffees and teas, serveware and ready-to-drink beverages, among other items. Stored Value Cards and Loyalty Program The Starbucks Card, our branded stored value card program, is designed to provide customers with a convenient payment method, support gifting and increase the frequency of store visits by cardholders, in part through the related Starbucks Rewards loyalty program where available, as discussed below. Stored value cards are issued to customers when they initially load them with an account balance. They can be obtained in our company-operated and most licensed stores in North America, China, Japan and many of our markets in our International segment. Stored value cards can also be obtained online, via the Starbucks Mobile App and through other U.S. and international retailers. Customers may access their card balances by utilizing their stored value card or the Starbucks Mobile App in participating stores. In nearly all markets, including the U.S. and Canada, customers who register their Starbucks Cards are automatically enrolled in the Starbucks Rewards program. Registered members can receive various benefits depending on factors such as the number of reward points ( Stars ) earne