Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 1C C ybersecurity 28 Item 2 Properties 30 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters , and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 Reserved 33 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Index for Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 55 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 89 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B Other Information 93 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers , and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11 Executive Compensation 94 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 94 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 94 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 102 SIGNATURES 103 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding future events and the future results of Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate, our economic and market outlook, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, seeks, or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as will, should, could, may, aims, intends, or projects, and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors (many beyond our control) that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience or from our current expectations or projections. Our forward-looking statements, and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, include, but are not limited to, those described under the Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), as well as, among others: our ability to preserve, grow, and leverage our brands, including the risk of negative responses by consumers (such as boycotts or negative publicity campaigns), governmental actors (such as retaliatory legislative treatment), or other third parties who object to certain actions taken or not taken by the Company, whose responses could adversely affect our brand value; the impact of our marketing strategies, promotional and advertising plans, pricing strategies, platforms, reformulations, innovations, or customer experience initiatives or investments; the costs and risks associated with, and the successful execution and effects of, our existing and any future business opportunities, expansions, initiatives, strategies, investments, and plans, including our Back to Starbucks plan; changes in consumer preferences, demand, consumption, or spending behavior, including due to shifts in demographic or health and wellness trends, reduction in discretionary spending and price increases, and our ability to anticipate or react to these changes; the ability of our business partners, suppliers, and third-party providers to fulfill their responsibilities and commitments; the potential negative effects of reported incidents involving food- or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination, or mislabeling; our ability to open new stores and efficiently maintain the attractiveness of our existing stores; our dependence on the financial performance of our North America operating segment and our increasing dependence on certain international markets; our anticipated operating expenses, including our anticipated total capital expenditures; inherent risks of operating a global business, including changing conditions in our markets, local factors affecting store openings, protectionist trade or foreign investment policies, economic or trade sanctions, compliance with local laws and other regulations, and local labor policies and conditions, including labor strikes and work stoppages; higher costs, lower quality, or unavailability of coffee, dairy, cocoa, energy, water, raw materials, or product ingredients; the potential impact on our supply chain of adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or significant increases in logistics costs; the ability of our supply chain to meet current or future business needs and our ability to scale and improve our forecasting, planning, production, and logistics management; a worsening in the terms and conditions upon which we engage with our manufacturers and source suppliers, whether resulting from broader local or global conditions or dynamics specific to our relationships with such parties; the impact of unfavorable global or regional economic conditions and related economic slowdowns or recessions, low consumer confidence, high unemployment, weak credit or capital markets, budget deficits, burdensome government debt, austerity measures, higher interest rates, higher taxes, international trade disputes, government restrictions, geopolitical instability, higher inflation, or deflation; failure to meet our announced guidance or market expectations and the impact thereof; failure to attract or retain key executive or partner talent or successfully transition executives; the impacts of partner investments and changes in the availability and cost of labor, including any union organizing efforts and our responses to such efforts; the impact of foreign currency translation, particularly a stronger U.S. dollar; the impact of, and our ability to respond to, substantial competition from new entrants, consolidations by competitors, and other competitive activities, such as pricing actions (including price reductions, promotions, discounting, couponing, or free goods), marketing, category expansion, product introductions, or entry or expansion in our geographic markets; potential impacts of climate change; evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations; the potential impact of activist shareholder actions or tactics; 1 Table of Contents failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements; the impact or likelihood of significant legal disputes and proceedings or government investigations; potential negative effects of, and our ability to respond to, a material failure, inadequacy, or interruption of our information technology systems or those of our third-party business partners or service providers, or failure to comply with data protection laws; and our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others. In addition, many of the foregoing risks and uncertainties are, or could be, exacerbated by any worsening of the global business and economic environment. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are under no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( 10-K or Report ) for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2024 ( fiscal 2024 ), Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as Starbucks, the Company, we, us, or our. Starbucks is the premier roaster, marketer, and retailer of specialty coffee in the world, operating in 87 markets. Formed in 1985, Starbucks Corporation s common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market ( Nasdaq ) under the symbol SBUX. We purchase and roast high-quality coffees that we sell, along with handcrafted coffee, tea, and other beverages and a variety of high-quality food items through company-operated stores. We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels, such as licensed stores as well as grocery and foodservice through our Global Coffee Alliance with Nestl S.A. ( Nestl ). In addition to our flagship Starbucks Coffee brand, we sell goods and services under the following brands: Teavana , Ethos , and Starbucks Reserve . Our primary objective is to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. We believe the continuous investments in our brand and operations will deliver long-term targeted revenue and income growth. This includes expansion of our global store base, adding stores in both existing, developed markets such as the U.S. and in higher growth markets, as well as optimizing the mix of company-operated and licensed stores around the world. In addition, by leveraging experiences gained through our stores and elsewhere, we continue to drive beverage, equipment, process, and technology innovation, including in our industry-leading digital platform. We strive to regularly offer consumers new, innovative coffee and other products in a variety of forms, across new categories, diverse channels, and alternative store formats. Starbucks has always been a different kind of company one deep with purpose, where we work together to create a positive impact in the world. With coffee at our core, we pursue ambitious goals for our partners (employees), our communities, and our planet, which we believe also contributes to the long-term sustainability of creating a thriving business powered by thriving people for a thriving planet and communities. Our work to uplift one another extends well beyond our partners to the communities where we do business around the world. We are committed to responsible and ethical sourcing led by Coffee and Farmer Equity Practices ( C.A.F.E. Practices ), the Company s third-party verification program and the cornerstone of our approach to ethical sourcing of coffee with over 98% of our coffee having been historically verified through C.A.F.E. Practices as ethically sourced. Human Capital Management We invest in the well-being the mental, physical, and financial health of every partner through our practices, policies, and benefits. This work is grounded in the belief that we are at our best when we create inclusive, supportive, and welcoming environments, where we uplift one another with dignity, respect, and kindness. And we are hard at work uplifting our communities and building environments in our stores that are welcoming and safe. We believe the strength of our workforce is one of the significant contributors to our success as a global brand that leads with purpose. Therefore, one of our core strategies is to invest in and support our partners to differentiate our brand, products, and services in the competitive specialty coffee market, including the following areas of focus: Oversight and Management We recognize the diversity of customers, partners, and communities and believe in creating an inclusive and equitable environment that represents a broad spectrum of backgrounds and cultures. Working under these principles, our Partner Resources Organization is tasked with managing employment-related matters, including recruiting and hiring, onboarding and training, compensation planning, performance management, and professional development. Our Board of Directors (the Board ) and Board committees provide oversight on certain human capital matters, including our Inclusion and Diversity initiatives. As noted in its charter, our Compensation and Management Development Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing Starbucks partner resource programs and initiatives, including healthcare and other benefits, as well as our management development and succession planning practices and strategies. Our Audit and Compliance Committee works closely with the Risk Management Committee, led by Starbucks chief financial officer ( cfo ) and chief legal officer, to monitor and mitigate current and emerging labor and human capital management risks. Our Environmental, Partner, and Community Impact Committee annually reviews and assesses the effectiveness of the Company s environmental and social 3 Table of Contents strategies, policies, practices, goals, programs, disclosure, and risks, including review of the Company s annual global climate and social impact report. These reports and recommendations to the Board and its committees are part of the broader framework that guides how Starbucks should attract, retain, and develop a skilled workforce that aligns with our values and strategies. We regularly conduct anonymous surveys to seek feedback from our partners on a variety of topics, including confidence in company leadership, competitiveness of our compensation and benefits package, career growth opportunities, and recommendations on how we can remain an employer of choice. The results are shared with our partners and reviewed by senior leadership, who analyze areas of progress or deterioration and prioritize actions and activities in response to this feedback to drive meaningful improvements in partner engagement. Our management and cross-functional teams also work closely to evaluate human capital management issues such as partner retention, workplace safety, harassment, and bullying, as well as to implement measures to mitigate these issues. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging As we create the future of Starbucks, we are continuing to work to improve the partner experience so our partners can thrive at work, individually, and together. Core to this is taking steps to ensure that Starbucks is an inclusive, diverse, equitable, and accessible company a place where all are welcome and where our partners know they belong. Under the leadership of our senior vice president of Talent and Inclusion and our executive leadership team, we remain committed to accountability at every level of the Company. We prioritize transparency with our partners, Inclusion and Diversity Executive Council, Partner Networks, Inclusion and Diversity Business Council, community leaders, customers, and stakeholders. At Starbucks, we are committed to creating environments where everyone is welcome and belongs. In 2024, we reaffirmed this commitment by cementing Belonging as one of our company values. These values have long been part of our culture, and we are working to build a more inclusive, equitable, accessible, and diverse company, to make substantial progress in the representation of our partners and to expand opportunities for our partners. To further this: we worked to reach a broader pool of candidates, prioritizing inclusivity in our recruitment, in partner engagement, and by continuing to foster inclusive leadership; we established and expanded our mentorship program to make valuable guidance and networking opportunities available to all partners; and we remained focused on addressing barriers impeding equal pay for equal work. At the end of fiscal 2024, our U.S. partner base is made up 70.9% female and 28.4% male. Additionally, in the U.S. diverse partners represent more than 51.9% of our retail team and more than 37.9% of our corporate roles. We are expanding workforce diversity to bring new perspectives and experiences that improve our business and workplace. To do this, we reach a broader pool of candidates and talent by prioritizing inclusivity in our recruitment practices, in partner engagement, and by continuing to foster inclusive leadership. Total Rewards We have demonstrated a history of investing in our workforce by offering competitive salaries and wages by continuously assessing the current business environment and labor market. We have consistently made enhancements in wages in order to attract talent to support our growth strategy and to elevate the customer experience. To foster a stronger sense of ownership and align the interests of partners with shareholders, restricted stock units are provided to eligible non-executive partners under our broad-based stock incentive programs. Furthermore, we offer comprehensive, locally relevant and innovative benefits to all eligible partners. The following list summarizes key benefits provided in the U.S., which is our largest and most mature market: Comprehensive health insurance coverage is offered to partners working an average of 20 hours or more each week. 100% upfront tuition coverage through the Starbucks College Achievement Plan for partners to earn a first-time bachelor s degree online at Arizona State University is offered to partners working an average of 20 hours or more each week. Our Future Roast 401(k) savings plan helps partners save for their financial goal through convenient payroll deductions. Partners can contribute pre-tax or Roth after-tax dollars, and Starbucks matches 5% of eligible contributions with immediate vesting in those matching contributions. 4 Table of Contents 100% paid parental leave is available to new parents that welcome a child through birth, adoption, or foster placement and work an average of 20 hours or more each week. A Partner and Family Sick Time program is provided and allows partners to accrue paid sick time based on hours worked and use that time for themselves or family members in need of care. We view mental health as a fundamental part of our humanity and provide a comprehensive suite of related programs and benefits. These include a free subscription to Headspace, an online application that enables guided meditation, and 20 free mental health therapy or coaching sessions annually with Lyra. Outside of the U.S., we have provided other innovative benefits to help address market-specific needs, such as providing interest-free loans to our U.K. partners to help cover rental deposits, mental health services in Canada, and, in China, an extra 14th Month Pay initiative, giving retail partners an additional month s salary as a bonus on top of the 13th month pay that is customary in China, as well as a monthly housing subsidy for full-time Starbucks baristas and shift supervisors, and comprehensive health insurance coverage for parents of partners. Role-based Support To help our partners succeed in their roles, we emphasize continuous training and development opportunities. These include, but are not limited to, safety and security protocols, updates on new products and service offerings, and deployment of technologies. Training provided through our Pour Over sessions, which are a series of inspiring talks with thought leaders to help partners understand how to bring the Starbucks Experience to life, include a wide variety of topics such as achievable goal setting, giving and receiving constructive feedback, and effective engagement with customers and communities. To help further promote an inclusive culture and to better serve our customers, we encourage U.S.-based partners to enroll in the To Be Welcoming courses we created in partnership with Arizona State University to address different forms of bias and discrimination. Pay Equity To be an employer of choice and maintain the strength of our workforce, we consistently assess the current business environment and labor market to refine our compensation and benefits programs and other resources available to our partners. Starbucks is committed to pay equity. We ve achieved and maintained racial and gender pay equity for partners in the U.S. who are performing similar work, and we re working toward achieving gender pay equity for Starbucks partners who are performing similar work in all of our company-operated markets globally. Further, we have formulated pay-equity principles, which provide equal footing, transparency, and accountability as best practices that help address known, systemic barriers to global pay equity. As of September 29, 2024, Starbucks employed approximately 361,000 people worldwide. In the U.S., Starbucks employed approximately 211,000 people, with approximately 201,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in corporate support, store development, roasting, manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution operations. Approximately 150,000 employees were employed outside of the U.S., with approximately 144,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in regional support operations. Approximately 5% of Starbucks partners in U.S. company-operated stores are represented by unions. We believe our efforts in managing our workforce have been effective, evidenced by low turnover, a strong culture, and active employee participation. Information about our Executive Officers Name Age Position Brian Niccol 50 chairman and chief executive officer Rachel Ruggeri 55 executive vice president, chief financial officer Brady Brewer 51 chief executive officer, Starbucks International Sara Kelly 45 executive vice president, chief partner officer Brad Lerman 68 executive vice president, chief legal officer Brian Niccol joined Starbucks as its chairman and chief executive officer in September 2024. Mr. Niccol spent more than 25 years in leadership, marketing, and operations roles for some of the world s most respected brands. Mr. Niccol joined Starbucks after leading Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. through a period of growth and transformation, having served as a director and as its chief executive officer from 2018 to 2024 and as its chairman, from 2020 to 2024. Before joining Chipotle, he served as chief executive officer of Taco Bell, a division of Yum! Brands, Inc., from 2015 to 2018, after having served as its President (2013 to 2014) and chief marketing and innovation officer (2011 to 2012). Mr. Niccol also served in leadership roles at Pizza Hut, another division of Yum! Brands from 2005 to 2011. Mr. Niccol currently serves on the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc., a NYSE-listed omni-channel retailer. 5 Table of Contents Rachel Ruggeri joined Starbucks in 2001 as a member of the accounting team and was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in 2021. In August 2024, she served as interim chief executive officer during Starbucks recent chief executive officer transition. In her role as chief financial officer, Ms. Ruggeri is responsible for the global finance function for Starbucks, which includes developing and executing the financial strategies that enable the long-term growth of the Company. Prior to her promotion in 2021, she served as senior vice president of Americas with responsibility for the retail portfolio across the segment, including company-operated and licensed stores from 2020 to 2021. From 2016 to 2020, she held various leadership roles in finance both internal and external to Starbucks, including Chief Financial Officer of Continental Mills from 2018 to 2020 and prior to that she was senior vice president of Finance at Starbucks in support of the Americas and Global Retail from 2016 to 2018. She also served as vice president of Finance from 2010 to 2016 supporting Corporate Financial Planning Analysis and the U.S. Retail business. Ms. Ruggeri currently serves on the Board of Directors of Stryker Corporation, a NYSE-listed medical technologies company. Brady Brewer joined Starbucks in 2001 and has served as chief executive officer, Starbucks International since April 2024, where he is responsible for the teams across Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Japan, Latin America, and the Caribbean, as well as Global Channel Development and the Company s international licensed partners. From February 2020 through March 2024, he served as Starbucks executive vice president and chief marketing officer, leading the Starbucks brand, marketing, food and beverage portfolio, digital customer experience innovation, R D/Engineering, creative and brand management, consumer insights, data analytics, and sustainability. His prior roles at Starbucks include senior vice president of Digital Customer Experience for Starbucks (2019 through February 2020), where he focused on delivering new innovations that made the Starbucks Experience continually more effortless and delightful for customers; chief operating officer for Starbucks Japan (2016 to 2019), where he led store operations as well as brand and marketing strategy; and senior vice president, Marketing and Product for the Company s China and Asia Pacific region (2014 to 2016). Sara Kelly joined Starbucks in 2001 and has served as executive vice president and chief partner officer since 2022, where she is responsible for helping partners realize their career potential and building global partner capability to enable growth and deliver on the Company s strategic plan. Prior to her current role, Ms. Kelly was senior vice president, Talent Partner Experience from 2021 to 2022, where she was responsible for advancing Starbucks talent and organizational leadership agenda and was focused on amplifying the strategic work being led by the talent acquisition, talent management, partner experience, learning and development, and organization and leadership effectiveness teams. From 2014 to 2021, Ms. Kelly served as vice president, Partner Resources, supporting partners in our global markets. Brad Lerman joined Starbucks in April 2023 as executive vice president and general counsel and has served as executive vice president and chief legal officer since April 2024. In this role, he leads the Company s Legal and Corporate Affairs organization. Prior to Starbucks, Mr. Lerman served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Medtronic plc from 2014 to 2022; and executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary for the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) from 2012 to 2014. Mr. Lerman has also served as chief litigation counsel for Pfizer and has worked in private practice as a partner at Winston Strawn LLP in Chicago. He also served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Illinois. Mr. Lerman currently serves on the Board of Directors of McKesson Corporation, a NYSE-listed health care, pharmaceutical, and medical supply company. Segment Financial Information Segment information is prepared on the same basis that our ceo, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker, manages the segments, evaluates financial results, and makes key operating decisions. We have three reportable operating segments: 1) North America, which is inclusive of the U.S. and Canada; 2) International, which is inclusive of China, Japan, Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean; and 3) Channel Development. Unallocated corporate expenses are reported within Corporate and Other. Revenues from our reportable operating segments as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal 2024 were as follows: North America (75%), International (20%), and Channel Development (5%). Our North America and International segments include both company-operated and licensed stores. Our North America segment is our most mature business and has achieved significant scale. Certain markets within our International operations are in various stages of development and may require more extensive support, relative to their current levels of revenue and operating income, than our North America operations. Our Channel Development segment includes roasted whole bean and ground coffees, Starbucks-branded single-serve products, a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, such as Frappuccino and Starbucks Doubleshot , foodservice products, and other branded products sold worldwide outside of our company-operated and licensed stores. A large portion of our Channel Development business operates under a licensed model of the Global Coffee Alliance with Nestl , while our global ready-to-drink businesses operate under collaborative relationships with PepsiCo, Inc., Tingyi-Ashi Beverages Holding Co., Ltd., Arla Foods amba, Nestl , and others. 6 Table of Contents Revenue Components We generate the majority of our revenues through company-operated stores and licensed stores. Company-operated and Licensed Store Summary as of September 29, 2024: North America As a % of Total North America Stores International As a % of Total International Stores Total As a % of Total Stores Company-operated stores 11,161 61 % 9,857 45 % 21,018 52 % Licensed stores 7,263 39 % 11,918 55 % 19,181 48 % Total 18,424 100 % 21,775 100 % 40,199 100 % The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market generally varies based on several factors, including our ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity, profitability, and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks, and our ability to leverage the support infrastructure within a geographic region. Company-operated Stores Revenue from company-operated stores accounted for 82% of total net revenues during fiscal 2024. Our retail objective is to be the leading retailer and brand o