Item 1 Business 2 Item 1A Risk Factors 9 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2 Properties 19 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Index for Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 52 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 89 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B Other Information 93 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11 Executive Compensation 94 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 94 Item 13 Certain Relationships , Related Transactions and Director Independence 94 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 95 SIGNATURES 104 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, seeks or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as will, should, could, may, aims, intends, or projects. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any other public statement made by us, including by our management, may turn out to be incorrect. We are including this cautionary note to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Starbucks is the premier roaster, marketer and retailer of specialty coffee in the world, operating in 83 markets. Formed in 1985, Starbucks Corporation s common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ( NASDAQ ) under the symbol SBUX. We purchase and roast high-quality coffees that we sell, along with handcrafted coffee, tea and other beverages and a variety of high-quality food items through company-operated stores. We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels such as licensed stores, as well as grocery and foodservice through our Global Coffee Alliance with Nestl S. A. ( Nestl ). In addition to our flagship Starbucks Coffee brand, we sell goods and services under the following brands: Teavana, Seattle s Best Coffee, Evolution Fresh, Ethos, Starbucks Reserve and Princi. Our objective is to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. To achieve this, we are continuing the disciplined expansion of our global store base, adding stores in both existing, developed markets such as the U.S. and in newer, higher growth markets such as China, as well as optimizing the mix of company-operated and licensed stores around the world. In addition, by leveraging the experience gained through our traditional store model, we continue to offer consumers new coffee and other products in a variety of forms, across new categories, diverse channels and alternative store formats. We also believe our Starbucks Global Social Impact strategy, commitments related to ethically sourcing high-quality coffee, contributing positively to the communities we do business in and being an employer of choice are contributors to our objective. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( 10-K or Report ) for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2020 ( fiscal 2020 ), Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as Starbucks, the Company, we, us or our. Segment Financial Information We have three reportable operating segments: 1) Americas, which is inclusive of the U.S., Canada and Latin America; 2) International, which is inclusive of China, Japan, Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa; and 3) Channel Development. Non-reportable operating segments such as Evolution Fresh and unallocated corporate expenses are reported within Corporate and Other. Revenues from our reportable operating segments as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal 2020 were as follows: Americas (70%), International (22%) and Channel Development (8%). Our Americas and International segments include both company-operated and licensed stores. Our Americas segment is our most mature business and has achieved significant scale. Certain markets within our International operations are in various stages of development and may require more extensive support, relative to their current levels of revenue and operating income, than our Americas operations. Our Channel Development segment includes roasted whole bean and ground coffees, Seattle's Best Coffee , Starbucks- and Teavana-branded single-serve products, a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, such as Frappuccino , Starbucks Doubleshot , Starbucks Refreshers beverages and Teavana TM/MC iced tea, and other branded products sold worldwide outside of our company-operated and licensed stores. A large portion of our Channel Development business operates under a licensed model of the Global Coffee Alliance with Nestl , while our global ready-to-drink businesses operate under collaborative relationships with PepsiCo, Inc., Anheuser-Busch Companies, LLC, Tingyi-Ashi Beverages Holding Co., Ltd., Arla Foods amba and others. Revenue Components We generate the majority of our revenues through company-operated stores and licensed stores. Company-operated and Licensed Store Summary as of September 27, 2020 Americas As a% of Total Americas Stores International As a% of Total International Stores Total As a% of Total Stores Company-operated stores 10,109 55 % 6,528 46 % 16,637 51 % Licensed stores 8,245 45 % 7,778 54 % 16,023 49 % Total 18,354 100 % 14,306 100 % 32,660 100 % The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market will vary based on several factors, including our ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity, profitability and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks and our ability to leverage the support infrastructure within a geographic region. 2 Table of Contents Company-operated Stores Revenue from company-operated stores accounted for 81% of total net revenues during fiscal 2020. Our retail objective is to be the leading retailer and brand of coffee and tea in each of our target markets by selling the finest quality coffee, tea and related products, as well as complementary food offerings, and by providing each customer with a unique Starbucks Experience . The Starbucks Experience is built upon superior customer service, convenience and a seamless digital experience as well as safe, clean and well-maintained stores that reflect the personalities of the communities in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty. Our strategy for expanding our global retail business is to increase our category share in a disciplined manner, by selectively opening additional stores in new and existing markets, as well as increasing sales in existing stores, to support our long-term strategic objective to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. Store growth in specific existing markets will vary due to many factors, including expected financial returns, the maturity of the market, economic conditions, consumer behavior and local business practices. Company-operated store data for the year-ended September 27, 2020: Stores Open as of Stores Open as of Sep 29, 2019 Opened Closed Transfers Net Sep 27, 2020 Americas: U.S. 8,791 332 (182) 150 8,941 Canada 1,175 58 (74) (16) 1,159 Siren Retail 8 2 (1) 1 9 Total Americas 9,974 392 (257) 135 10,109 International: China 4,123 613 (32) 581 4,704 Japan 1,379 104 (19) 85 1,464 U.K. 288 6 (2) (4) 288 All Other 65 2 2 67 Siren Retail 5 5 Total International 5,860 725 (53) (4) 668 6,528 Total company-operated 15,834 1,117 (310) (4) 803 16,637 Starbucks company-operated stores are typically located in high-traffic, high-visibility locations. Our ability to vary the size and format of our stores allows us to locate them in or near a variety of settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, university campuses and rural and off-highway locations. We are continuing the expansion of our stores, particularly drive-thru formats that provide a higher degree of access and convenience, and alternative store formats, which are designed to provide a more streamlined customer experience in dense metropolitan areas. Prior to the novel coronavirus outbreak, known as the global pandemic COVID-19, approximately 80% of Starbucks transactions in U.S. company-operated stores were on-the-go occasions. This has prompted us to reexamine our U.S. store footprint and evolve our retail presence over time through targeted store renovations, relocations and new stores. We have since introduced a new store format, Starbucks Pickup, to enhance the on-the-go customer experience and improve operating efficiency across Starbucks stores in certain major metropolitan areas in the Americas. New store formats, such as Starbucks Pickup, are suitable for customers who prefer to order ahead and pay through the Starbucks Mobile App for pick-up. In our major international markets, we continue to invest in technology and establish partnerships with third parties with relevant expertise to increase digital adoption to provide convenience and elevate the customer experience. In China, the introduction of Starbucks Now TM stores enables a seamless integration of physical and digital customer touchpoints. Orders may be placed in advance through the Starbucks Mobile App or Starbucks Delivers TM and can be conveniently picked up by customers and delivery riders in these express retail format locations. These strategies align closely with rapidly evolving customer preferences, including higher levels of mobile ordering, more contactless pick-up experiences and reduced in-store congestion, all of which naturally allow for greater physical distancing. We believe our continued efforts to transform our store portfolio and elevate technology will enhance the customer experience and position Starbucks for long-term growth. 3 Table of Contents Retail sales mix by product type for company-operated stores: Fiscal Year Ended Sep 27, 2020 Sep 29, 2019 Sep 30, 2018 Beverages 75 % 74 % 74 % Food 20 % 20 % 20 % Packaged and single-serve coffees and teas 1 % 1 % 2 % Other (1) 4 % 5 % 4 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Other primarily consists of sales of serveware and ready-to-drink beverages, among other items. Stored Value Cards and Loyalty Program The Starbucks Card, our branded stored value card program, is designed to provide customers with a convenient payment method, support gifting and increase the frequency of store visits by cardholders, in part through the related Starbucks Rewards loyalty program where available, as discussed below. Stored value cards are issued to customers when they initially load them with an account balance. They can be obtained in our company-operated and most licensed stores in North America, China, Japan and many of our markets in our International segment. Stored value cards can also be obtained online, via the Starbucks Mobile App and through other U.S. and international retailers. Customers may access their card balances by utilizing their stored value card or the Starbucks Mobile App in participating stores. Using the Mobile Order and Pay functionality of the Starbucks Mobile App, customers can also place orders in advance for pick-up at certain participating locations in several markets. In nearly all markets, including the U.S. and Canada, customers who register their Starbucks Cards are automatically enrolled in the Starbucks Rewards program. Registered members can receive various benefits depending on factors such as the number of reward points ( Stars ) earned. Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, in addition to using their Starbucks Cards, Starbucks Rewards members can earn Stars by paying with cash, credit or debit cards, or selected mobile wallets at company-operated stores in the U.S. and Canada. Refer to Note 1 , Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K, for further discussion of our stored value cards and loyalty program. Licensed Stores Revenues from our licensed stores accounted for 10% of total net revenues in fiscal 2020. Licensed stores generally have a lower gross margin and a higher operating margin than company-operated stores. Under the licensed model, Starbucks receives a margin on branded products and supplies sold to the licensed store operator along with a royalty on retail sales. Licensees are responsible for operating costs and capital investments which more than offset the lower revenues we receive under the licensed store model. In our licensed store operations, we leverage the expertise of our local partners and share our operating and store development experience. Licensees provide improved, and at times the only, access to desirable retail space. Most licensees are prominent retailers with in-depth market knowledge and access. As part of these arrangements, we sell coffee, tea, food and related products to licensees for resale to customers and receive royalties and license fees from the licensees. We also sell certain equipment, such as coffee brewers and espresso machines, to our licensees for use in their operations. Employees working in licensed retail locations are required to follow our detailed store operating procedures and attend training classes similar to those given to employees in company-operated stores. In a limited number of international markets, we also use traditional franchising and include these stores in the results of operations from our other licensed stores. 4 Table of Contents Licensed store data for the year-ended September 27, 2020: Stores Open as of Stores Open as of Sep 29, 2019 Opened Closed Transfers Net Sep 27, 2020 Americas: U.S. 6,250 210 (73) 137 6,387 Mexico 748 15 (11) 4 752 Latin America 663 32 (33) (1) 662 Canada 432 24 (12) 12 444 Total Americas 8,093 281 (129) 152 8,245 International: Korea 1,334 159 (25) 134 1,468 U.K. 707 55 (29) 4 30 737 Turkey 494 42 (6) 36 530 Taiwan 480 32 (11) 21 501 Indonesia 421 37 37 458 Philippines 397 10 (11) (1) 396 Thailand 392 20 (7) 13 405 All Other 3,104 265 (86) 179 3,283 Total International 7,329 620 (175) 4 449 7,778 Total licensed 15,422 901 (304) 4 601 16,023 Other Revenues Other revenues primarily are recorded in our Channel Development segment and include sales of packaged coffee, tea and ready-to-drink beverages to customers outside of our company-operated and licensed stores, as well as royalties received from Nestl under the Global Coffee Alliance and other collaborative partnerships. Product Supply Starbucks is committed to selling the finest whole bean coffees and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with our rigorous coffee standards, we control substantially all coffee purchasing, roasting and packaging and the global distribution of coffee used in our operations. We purchase green coffee beans from multiple coffee-producing regions around the world and custom roast them to our exacting standards for our many blends and single origin coffees. The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market, high-altitude arabica coffee of the quality sought by Starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the C coffee commodity price. Both the premium and the commodity price depend upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions. Price is also impacted by trading activities in the arabica coffee futures market, including hedge funds and commodity index funds. In addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. We buy coffee using fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed purchase commitments, depending on market conditions, to secure an adequate supply of quality green coffee. We also utilize forward contracts, futures contracts and collars to hedge "C" price exposure under our price-to-be-fixed green coffee contracts and our long-term forecasted coffee demand where underlying fixed price and price-to-be-fixed contracts are not yet available. Total purchase commitments, together with existing inventory, are expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee through fiscal 2022. We depend upon our relationships with coffee producers, outside trading companies and exporters for our supply of green coffee. We believe, based on relationships established with our suppliers, the risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote. To help ensure the future supply of high-quality green coffee and to reinforce our leadership role in the coffee industry, Starbucks operates nine farmer support centers, including our China Farmer Support Center located in the Yunnan Province of 5 Table of Contents this high-growth market. All farmer support centers are staffed with agronomists and sustainability experts who work with coffee farming communities to promote best practices in coffee production designed to improve both coffee quality and yields and agronomy support to address climate and other impacts. In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated stores. We believe, based on relationships established with our dairy suppliers, that the risk of non-delivery of sufficient fluid milk to support our stores is remote. Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold in Starbucks stores include tea and a number of ready-to-drink beverages that are purchased from several specialty suppliers, usually under long-term supply contracts. Food products, such as pastries, breakfast sandwiches and lunch items, are purchased from national, regional and local sources. We also purchase a broad range of paper and plastic products, such as cups and cutlery, from several companies to support the needs of our retail stores as well as our manufacturing and distribution operations. We believe, based on relationships established with these suppliers and manufacturers, that the risk of non-delivery of sufficient amounts of these items is remote. Competition Our primary competitors for coffee beverage sales are specialty coffee shops. We believe that our customers choose among specialty coffee retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and convenience, as well as price. We continue to experience direct competition from large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector and the ready-to-drink coffee beverage market, in addition to both well-established and start-up companies in many international markets. We also compete with restaurants and other specialty retailers for prime retail locations and qualified personnel to operate both new and existing stores. Our coffee and tea products sold through our Channel Development segment compete directly against specialty coffees and teas sold through grocery stores, warehouse clubs, specialty retailers, convenience stores and foodservice accounts and compete indirectly against all other coffees and teas on the market. Trademarks, Copyrights, Patents and Domain Names Starbucks owns and has applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in other countries throughout the world. Some of our trademarks, including Starbucks, the Starbucks logo, Starbucks Reserve, Seattle s Best Coffee, Teavana and Frappuccino are of material importance. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. We own numerous copyrights for items such as product packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training materials. We also hold patents on certain products, systems and designs. In addition, Starbucks has registered and maintains numerous Internet domain names, including Starbucks.com, Starbucks.net, Starbucksreserve.com, Seattlesbest.com and Teavana.com. Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our business is subject to moderate seasonal fluctuations, of which our fiscal second quarter typically experiences lower revenues and operating income. However, the COVID-19 outbreak may have an impact on consumer behaviors and customer traffic that may result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business. Additionally, as Starbucks Cards are issued to and loaded by customers during the holiday season, we tend to have higher cash flows from operations during the first quarter of the fiscal year. However, since revenues from Starbucks Cards are recognized upon redemption and not when cash is loaded onto the Card, the impact of seasonal fluctuations on the consolidated statements of earnings is much less pronounced. As a result of moderate seasonal fluctuations, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Government Regulation As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulation has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position as compared to prior periods. 6 Table of Contents Human Capital Management As a company, Starbucks mission is not only to deliver outstanding financial results by offering exceptional and unique products and services, but to also create a strong connection with the communities where we operate. We believe the strength of our workforce is one of the significant contributors to our success as a global brand that leads with purpose. This is largely attributed to our partners (employees) who strive every day to create a welcoming and inclusive environment for our customers. Therefore, one of our core strategies is to invest in and support our partners to differentiate our brand, products and services in the competitive specialty coffee market, including the following areas of focus: Oversight and Management We recognize the diversity of customers, partners and communities, and believe in creating an inclusive and equitable environment that represents a broad spectrum of backgrounds and cultures. Working under these principles, our Partner Resources Organization is tasked with managing employment-related matters, including recruiting and hiring, onboarding and training, compensation planning, performance management and professional development. Our Board of Directors and Board committees provide oversight on certain human capital matters, including our Inclusion and Diversity programs and initiatives. As noted in its charter, our Compensation and Management Development Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing Starbucks partner resource programs and initiatives, including healthcare and other benefits, as well as our management development and succession planning practices and strategies. Our Audit and Compliance Committee works closely with the Risk Management Committee, led by Starbucks cfo and general counsel, to monitor current and emerging labor and human capital management risks and to mitigate exposure to those risks. Furthermore, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee annually evaluates the effectiveness of our social responsibility policies, goals and programs, which also include partner-related issues. These reports and recommendations to the Board and its committees are part of the broader framework that guides how Starbucks should attract, retain and develop a workforce that aligns with our values and strategies. We regularly conduct anonymous surveys to seek feedback from our retail and non-retail partners on a variety of topics, including but not limited to, confidence in company leadership, competitiveness of our compensation and benefits package, career growth opportunities and improvements on how we could make our company an employer of choice. The results are shared with our partners and reviewed by senior leadership, who analyze areas of progress or deterioration and prioritize actions and activities in response to this feedback to drive meaningful improvements in partner engagement. Our management and cross-functional teams also work closely to evaluate human capital management issues such as partner retention, workplace safety, harassment and bullying, as well as to implement measures to mitigate these risks. Total Rewards We have demonstrated a history of investing in our workforce by offering competitive salaries and wages. To foster a stronger sense of ownership and align the interests of partners with shareholders, restricted stock units are provided to eligible non-executive partners under our broad-based stock incentive programs. Furthermore, we offer comprehensive, locally relevant and innovative benefits to all eligible partners. In the U.S , our largest and most mature market, these include, among other benefits: Comprehensive health insurance coverage is offered to partners working an average of 20 hours or more each week. 100% tuition coverage is provided to partners who earn a bachelor's degree online at Arizona State University through the Starbucks College Achievement Program. Parental leaves are provided to all new parents for birth, adoption or foster placement. A Partner and Family Sick Time program is provided and allows partners to accrue paid sick time based on hours worked and use that time for themselves or family members in need of care. Care@Work benefit provides partners with subsidized child, adult or senior care planning services. This benefit includes up to 20 days of subsidized backup care services through the end of fiscal 2021, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. We view mental health as a fundamental part of our humanity and implemented a comprehensive suite of related programs and benefits in fiscal 2020. These include Headspace, an online application that enables guided mediation, Lyra, which provides mental health coaching, and Starbucks Mental Health Fundamental Training, created in partnership with National Council for Behavioral Health, which offers ongoing training to help partners recognize and respond to signs of mental health and substance use issues. Outside of the U.S., we have provided other innovative benefits to help address market-specific needs, such as providing interest-free loans to our U.K. partners to help cover rental deposits, mental health services in Canada, and in China, a monthly housing subsidy for full-time Starbucks baristas and shift supervisor s , as well as comprehensive health insurance coverage for parents of partners. 7 Table of Contents Role-based Support To help our partners succeed in their roles, we emphasize continuous training and development opportunities. These include, but are not limited to, safety and security protocols, updates on new products and service offerings and deployment of technologies. Training provided through our Pour Over sessions include a wide variety of topics such as achievable goal setting, giving and receiving constructive feedback and effective engagement with customers and communities. To help further promote an inclusive culture and to better serve our customers, we encourage U.S.-based partners to enroll in the To Be Welcoming courses we created in partnership with Arizona State University to address different forms of bias and discrimination. Pay Equity To be an 