Item 1. Business 1 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 Information About Our Executive Officers 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. [Reserved] 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Item 9B. Other Information 89 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection s 89 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 90 Item 11. Executive Compensation 90 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 91 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 91 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 91 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 92 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 98 Signatures 99 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866 and incorporated in Ohio in 1884, is engaged in the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers primarily in North and South America with additional operations in the Caribbean region, Europe, Asia and Australia. Our principal executive offices are located at 101 West Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-1075, telephone (216) 566-2000. As used in this report, the terms Sherwin-Williams, Company, we and our mean The Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may access these documents on our Investor Relations website, investors.sherwin-williams.com. We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Independence Standards, our Code of Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee, our Compensation and Management Development Committee and our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. You may access these documents on our Investor Relations website, investors.sherwin-williams.com. Basis of Reportable Segments The Company reports its segment information in the same way that management internally organizes its business for assessing performance and making decisions regarding allocation of resources. The Company has three reportable operating segments: The Americas Group, Consumer Brands Group and Performance Coatings Group (individually, a Reportable Segment and collectively, the Reportable Segments ). The Company reports all other business activities and immaterial operating segments that are not reportable in the Administrative segment. For more information about the Reportable Segments, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The Americas Group The Americas Group consisted of 4,859 company-operated specialty paint stores in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean region at December 31, 2021. Each store in this segment is engaged in servicing the needs of architectural and industrial paint contractors and do-it-yourself homeowners. These stores market and sell Sherwin-Williams and other controlled brand architectural paint and coatings, protective and marine products, OEM product finishes and related products. The majority of these products are produced by manufacturing facilities in the Consumer Brands Group. In addition, each store sells select purchased associated products. In addition to our stores in the Latin America region, The Americas Group meets regional customer demands through developing, licensing, manufacturing, distributing and selling a variety of architectural paints, coatings and related products in North and South America. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the business of this segment. At December 31, 2021, The Americas Group consisted of operations from subsidiaries in 10 foreign countries. Consumer Brands Group The Consumer Brands Group supplies a broad portfolio of branded and private-label architectural paint, stains, varnishes, industrial products, wood finishes products, wood preservatives, applicators, corrosion inhibitors, aerosols, caulks and adhesives to retailers and distributors throughout North America, as well as in China and Europe. The Consumer Brands Group also supports the Company s other businesses around the world with new product research and development, manufacturing, distribution and logistics. Approximately 62% of the total sales of the Consumer Brands Group in 2021 were intersegment transfers of products primarily sold through The Americas Group. At December 31, 2021, the Consumer Brands Group consisted of operations in the United States and subsidiaries in 5 foreign countries. Sales and marketing of certain controlled brand and private-label products is performed by a direct sales staff. The products distributed through third-party customers are intended for resale to the ultimate end-user of the product. The Consumer Brands Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales and related profitability of the segment. This segment incurred most of the Company s capital expenditures related to ongoing environmental compliance measures at sites currently in operation. Performance Coatings Group The Performance Coatings Group develops and sells industrial coatings for wood finishing and general industrial (metal and plastic) applications, automotive refinish, protective and marine coatings, coil coatings, packaging coatings and performance- 1 Table of Contents based resins and colorants worldwide. This segment licenses certain technology and trade names worldwide. Sherwin-Williams and other controlled brand products are distributed through The Americas Group and this segment s 282 company-operated branches and by a direct sales staff and outside sales representatives to retailers, dealers, jobbers, licensees and other third-party distributors. The Performance Coatings Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales of the segment. However, the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall profitability of the segment. At December 31, 2021, the Performance Coatings Group consisted of operations in the United States and subsidiaries in 44 foreign countries. Administrative Segment The Administrative segment includes the administrative expenses of the Company s corporate headquarters site. Also included in the Administrative segment is interest expense, interest and investment income, certain expenses related to closed facilities and environmental-related matters, and other expenses which are not directly associated with the Reportable Segments. The Administrative segment does not include any significant foreign operations. Also included in the Administrative segment is the operations of a real estate management unit that is responsible for the ownership, management, and leasing of non-retail properties held primarily for use by the Company, including the Company s headquarters site, and disposal of idle facilities. Sales of this segment represent external leasing revenue of excess headquarters space or leasing of facilities no longer used by the Company in its primary businesses. Material gains and losses from the sale of property are infrequent and not a significant operating factor in determining the performance of the Administrative segment. Raw Materials and Products Purchased for Resale Raw materials and products purchased for resale make up the majority of our consolidated cost of goods sold. Raw materials may vary considerably by the specific paint or coating being manufactured but can generally be divided into the following categories: resins and latex, pigments, additives, solvents, and metal or plastic containers. A significant portion of these raw materials are derived from various upstream petrochemical and related commodity feedstocks, notably propylene. Raw materials are sourced from multiple suppliers globally, typically within the geographic region where our products are being manufactured. A small portion of specialized resins and other products are manufactured in house. We also purchase a variety of products for resale that are highly complementary to our paint and coating offerings, notably spray equipment and parts, floorcovering, and assorted sundries. We attempt, if feasible, to mitigate our potential risk associated with the sourcing of our raw materials and other products through inventory management, strategic relationships with key suppliers, alternative sourcing strategies and long-term investments to expand our manufacturing capabilities. See Item 1A Risk Factors for more information regarding cost and sourcing of raw materials. Seasonality The majority of the sales for the Reportable Segments traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. However, periods of economic downturn can alter these seasonal patterns. There is no significant seasonality in sales for the Administrative segment. Working Capital In order to meet increased demand during the second and third quarters, the Company usually builds its inventories during the first quarter. Working capital items (inventories and accounts receivable) are generally financed through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of the Company s liquidity and capital resources, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Cash Flow section in Item 7. Trademarks and Trade Names Customer recognition of trademarks and trade names owned or licensed by the Company collectively contribute significantly to our sales. The major trademarks and trade names used by each of the Reportable Segments are set forth below. The Americas Group: Sherwin-Williams , Cashmere , Colorgin , Condor , Duration , Emerald , Harmony , Kem Tone , Loxon , Metalatex , Novacor , PaintShield , ProClassic , ProCraft , ProIndustrial , ProMar , SuperDeck , SuperPaint , Woodscapes Consumer Brands Group: Cabot , Dupli-Color , Dutch Boy , Geocel , HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams, Huarun , Krylon , Minwax , Purdy , Ronseal , Thompson s WaterSeal , Valspar , White Lightning Performance Coatings Group: Sherwin-Williams , Acrolon , AcromaPro , ATX , DeBeer Refinish , Duraspar , EcoDex , Envirolastic , Excelo , EzDex , Fastline , Firetex , Fluropon , Heat-Flex , House of Kolor , Huarun , Inver , Kem Aqua , Lazzuril , Macropoxy , Martin Senour , Matrix Edge , M.L. Campbell , Octoral , PermaClad , Polane , Powdura , Sayerlack , Sher-Wood , Sumar , Ultra 9K , Ultra 7000 , ValPure , Valspar 2 Table of Contents Patents Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to our business as a whole or any segment, The Americas Group and the Performance Coatings Group derive a portion of their income from the licensing of technology, trademarks and trade names to foreign companies. Backlog and Productive Capacity Backlog orders are not typically significant in the business of any Reportable Segment since there is normally a short period of time between the placing of an order and shipment. During 2021, we experienced raw material shortages, labor constraints, and weather-related shutdowns that impacted our production and ability to meet customer orders. We believe that sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill our needs for paint, coatings and related products during 2022. Competition We experience competition from many local, regional, national and international competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. We are a leading manufacturer and retailer of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers, however, our competitive position varies for our different products and markets. In The Americas Group, competitors include other paint and wallpaper stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets. Product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage for this segment. In the Consumer Brands Group, domestic and foreign competitors include manufacturers and distributors of branded and private-label paint and coatings products. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for this segment. The Performance Coatings Group has numerous competitors in its domestic and foreign markets with broad product offerings and several others with niche products. Key competitive factors for this segment include technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price. The Administrative segment has many competitors consisting of other real estate owners, developers and managers in areas in which this segment owns property. The main competitive factors are the availability of property and price. Human Capital Resources We believe our people are central to the foundation and future of the Company s success. Our culture and commitment to our people are important factors in attracting, retaining, developing and progressing qualified talent. At December 31, 2021, we employed 61,626 people worldwide, of which 78% were in the United States and 22% were in other global regions. Purpose and Culture . Our commitment to our people is embedded in our corporate purpose and guiding values. Our purpose is to inspire and improve the world by coloring and protecting what matters. We fulfill this purpose through the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of innovative paint and coatings products, striving to deliver benefits for all major stakeholders, including our employees. The Company s seven guiding values integrity, people, service, quality, performance, innovation and growth influence how we fulfill our purpose, emphasize our commitment to our people and serve as the foundation of our culture of excellence. We value and support our people through, among other initiatives, our inclusion, diversity and equity, talent acquisition, employee engagement, and occupational health and safety initiatives, and our employment practices and total rewards programs. Inclusion, Diversity and Equity . We are committed to fostering a culture of inclusion where differences are welcomed, appreciated and celebrated to positively impact our people and business. Reflected in the Company s Code of Conduct and reinforced through our actions, training and attitudes, fostering an inclusive culture is a moral and business imperative. The building blocks of our inclusion, diversity and equity strategy include: Educate and communicate to drive success: Building awareness of inclusive leadership behaviors to leverage the unique contributions of each employee to positively impact our people and business results. Fill the pipeline with the best talent: Attracting the best talent pool that reflects the diversity of the communities in which we serve and do business. Develop and engage talent by investing in our people: Investing in our people by providing networking and learning opportunities to drive retention, progression and engagement. Progress talent by embedding equity into talent planning: Embedding equity into talent practices, processes, tools and resources at all levels. 3 Table of Contents Our continuous efforts to create a supportive, welcoming environment across our global footprint is the shared responsibility of all employees, including our senior leaders. Our senior leaders attend an inclusion, diversity and equity learning session to assist us in maintaining our commitment to leading with inclusion and embracing and leveraging the diversity of our workforce. Talent Acquisition and Employee Engagement. We are committed to providing our people with opportunities to learn, grow and be recognized for their achievements. Through our integrated talent management strategy, we strive to attract, retain, develop and progress a workforce that embraces our culture of inclusion and reflects our diversity efforts. The Company s early talent programs, including our management trainee program, play a critical role in attracting and progressing a diverse pipeline of talent. During 2021, we hired approximately 1,400 talented people through our management trainee program as part of our long-term growth initiatives. We are also committed to investing in our people by providing learning and employee networking opportunities to drive retention, progression and engagement and help them excel in their current and future roles. During 2021, our employees completed thousands of hours of online and instructor-led courses across a broad range of categories, including leadership, inclusion, diversity and equity, professional skills, technical and compliance. Occupational Health and Safety. We are committed to providing safe and healthy working environments for our employees. We have a continued focus on Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) excellence that involves enhancing employee health and safety, process safety, occupational health and taking reasonable preventative measures to reduce workplace injuries to protect the health and safety of our employees. We strive for incident-free workplaces continuously assessing and developing the programs that are in place to help keep our employees, customers and communities safe. Since the onset of the pandemic, we have implemented significant modifications to our health and safety programs, which were designed to protect the health and well-being of our employees and customers from COVID-19. These efforts have included, but are not limited to: requiring social distancing; permitting remote, alternate and flexible work arrangements where possible; enhancing cleaning and sanitation procedures; restricting domestic and international travel; developing return to work and visitor screening protocols; and postponing or cancelling the hosting or attending of large events. Employment Practices and Total Rewards. We are committed to the fair, consistent and equitable treatment of our employees in relation to working conditions, wages, benefits, policies and procedures. To this end, the Company s policies and programs are designed to respond to the needs of our employees in a manner that provides a safe, professional, efficient and rewarding workplace. Our total rewards programs are designed to offer competitive compensation, comprehensive benefits and other programs to support employees growth, both personally and professionally, and the diverse needs and well-being of our employees worldwide. Over the past two years, we enhanced certain of the Company s benefits and practices to support the health and well-being of our employees through the challenges of the pandemic and significant supply chain disruptions caused by Winter Storm Uri and Hurricane Ida two natural disasters that occurred during 2021. Our enhanced benefits have included tele-health, paid sick leave, family leave and voluntary leave of absence policies and programs. We also have rewarded our employees resiliency and hard work and made changes in our business to encourage retention, including wage increases, reduced store hours and employee benefits enhancements. For additional information regarding our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and supply chain disruptions, see the information included within Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Regulatory Compliance For additional information regarding environmental-related matters, see Notes 1, 9 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 4 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Certain statements contained in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Letter to Shareholders and elsewhere in this report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based upon management s current expectations, predictions, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions and may discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance (including sales and earnings), expected growth, future business plans and the costs and potential liability for environmental-related matters and the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as believe, expect, may, will, should, project, could, plan, goal, target, potential, seek, intend, aspire or anticipate or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results, performance and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include such things as: general business conditions, strengths of retail and manufacturing economies and growth in the coatings industry; changes in general domestic and international economic conditions such as inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations; changes in raw material and energy supplies and pricing; changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers; disruptions in the supply chain, including those caused by industry capacity constraints, labor shortages, raw material availability, and logistics delays and constraints; our ability to successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations, as well as the performance of the businesses acquired; competitive factors, including pricing pressures and product innovation and quality; our ability to attain cost savings from productivity initiatives; risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in Asia, Europe, South America and other foreign markets, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest and other external economic and political factors; the achievement of growth in foreign markets, such as Asia, Europe and South America; increasingly stringent domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those affecting health, safety and the environment; inherent uncertainties involved in assessing our potential liability for environmental-related activities; other changes in governmental policies, laws and regulations, including changes in tariff policies, as well as changes in accounting policies and standards and taxation requirements (such as new tax laws and new or revised tax law interpretations); the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation and other claims, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, and the effect of any legislation and administrative regulations relating thereto; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, including due to the impacts of climate change, and public health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic; and the duration, severity and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions implemented by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of COVID-19, which may exacerbate one or more of the aforementioned and/or other risks, uncertainties and factors more fully described in the Company s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results and that the above list should not be considered to be a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. Readers should not interpret the disclosure of any risk factor to imply that the risk has not already materialized. ECONOMIC AND STRATEGIC RISKS The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, and the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic remain highly unpredictable and could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition in the future. Our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition have been, and may be in the future, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the impacts resulting from efforts by public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of COVID-19. Since the onset of the pandemic, we have made changes in our business designed to support these efforts and protect the health and well-being of our employees and customers. The changes in our business have included: temporarily reducing store hours and closing our sales floors in our company-operated paint stores to the general public; requiring our customers to order product online or via phone and to access their products via curbside pickup or delivery; implementing remote, alternate and flexible work arrangements where possible; enhancing cleaning and sanitation procedures; implementing domestic and international travel restrictions and return to work and visitor screening protocols; postponing or canceling the hosting or attending of large events; and enhancing certain employee benefits, such as telehealth, paid sick leave, family leave and voluntary leave of absence policies and programs. We continue to evaluate the changes we have made in our business, consider new and further changes, and work with public health, government and other authorities and organizations to maintain our operations and support the health and well-being of our employees, customers and their families. The necessary and appropriate measures we have taken have resulted in additional costs, including for COVID-related leave and healthcare costs, and have adversely impacted our business and financial performance. As the pandemic continues and evolves, we may incur additional costs and experience further adverse impacts to our business, each of which may be significant. We also have faced, and may continue to face, operational risks in connection with remote and hybrid in-office work arrangements, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks and increased vulnerability to damage or interruption resulting from, among other causes, cyber attacks, security breaches, phishing, malware, viruses, ransomware, power outages or system failures. The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets, all of which may continue, and all of which have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business. We have experienced occasional, temporary disruptions and closures of some of our facilities, including more recently in connection with the Omicron variant and due to our employees or their family members testing positive for COVID-19. We also have seen shifts in consumer behaviors and preferences, as well as impacts in the demand for some of our products. While demand levels for our products have been returning to more normalized levels, our ability to predict and meet any future changes in the demand for our products due to the impacts of the pandemic remains uncertain. While we continue to closely monitor the impact of the pandemic on all aspects of our business, the extent of the impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity, and financial performance, as well as our ability to execute near-term and long-term business strategies and initiatives, will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments, which are highly uncertain and which we cannot predict or control, and some