Item 1. Business 1 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 16 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Information About Our Executive Officers 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. [Reserved] 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B. Other Information 92 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 92 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 101 Signatures 102 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866 and incorporated in Ohio in 1884, is engaged in the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers primarily in North and South America with additional operations in the Caribbean region, Europe, Asia and Australia. Our principal executive offices are located at 101 West Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-1075, telephone (216) 566-2000. As used in this report, the terms Sherwin-Williams, Company, we , us and our mean The Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You may access these documents on our Investor Relations website, investors.sherwin.com. We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Independence Standards, our Code of Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee, our Compensation and Management Development Committee and our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. You may access these documents on our Investor Relations website, investors.sherwin.com. Basis of Reportable Segments The Company reports its segment information in the same way that management internally organizes its business for assessing performance and making decisions regarding allocation of resources. The Company has three reportable operating segments: Paint Stores Group, Consumer Brands Group and Performance Coatings Group (individually, a Reportable Segment and collectively, the Reportable Segments). The Company reports all other business activities and immaterial operating segments that are not reportable in the Administrative segment. For more information about the Reportable Segments, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Paint Stores Group Paint Stores Group consisted of 4,694 company-operated specialty paint stores in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean region at December 31, 2023. Each store in this segment is engaged in servicing the needs of architectural and industrial paint contractors and do-it-yourself homeowners. These stores market and sell Sherwin-Williams and other controlled brand architectural paint and coatings, protective and marine products, OEM product finishes and related products. The majority of these products are produced by manufacturing facilities in the Consumer Brands Group. In addition, each store sells select purchased associated products. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the business of this segment. Consumer Brands Group The Consumer Brands Group manufactures and distributes a broad portfolio of branded and private-label architectural paint, stains, varnishes, industrial products, wood finishes products, wood preservatives, applicators, corrosion inhibitors, aerosols, caulks and adhesives to retailers, including home centers and hardware stores, dedicated dealers and distributors throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. During 2023, the Company divested a non-core domestic aerosol business and the China architectural business, both part of the Consumer Brands Group. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information. Sales and marketing of certain controlled brand and private-label products is performed by a direct sales staff. The products distributed through third-party customers are intended for resale to the ultimate end-user of the product. The Consumer Brands Group also consisted of 318 company-operated specialty paint stores in Latin America at December 31, 2023. Each store in this segment is engaged in servicing the needs of home, commercial and industrial projects to contractors and do-it-yourself customers in Latin America. These stores market and sell Sherwin-Williams and other controlled brand architectural paint and coatings, protective and marine products, OEM product finishes and related products which are branded for the Latin America market. In addition, each store sells select purchased associated products. The Consumer Brands Group also supports the Company s other businesses around the world with new product research and development, manufacturing, distribution and logistics. Approximately 61% of the total sales of the Consumer Brands Group in 2023 were intersegment transfers of products primarily sold through the Paint Stores Group. The Consumer Brands Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales and related profitability of the segment. This segment incurred most of the Company s capital expenditures related to ongoing environmental compliance measures, manufacturing capacity expansion, operational efficiencies and maintenance projects at sites currently in operation. 1 Table of Contents Performance Coatings Group The Performance Coatings Group develops and sells industrial coatings for wood finishing and general industrial (metal and plastic) applications, automotive refinish, protective and marine coatings, coil coatings, packaging coatings and performance-based resins and colorants worldwide. This segment licenses certain technology and trade names worldwide. During 2023, the Company acquired German-based SIC Holding GmbH which is part of the Performance Coatings Group. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information. Sherwin-Williams and other controlled brand products are distributed through the Paint Stores Group, this segment s 322 company-operated branches, a direct sales staff and outside sales representatives to retailers, dealers, jobbers, licensees and other third-party distributors. The Performance Coatings Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales of the segment. However, the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall profitability of the segment. Administrative Segment The Administrative segment includes the administrative expenses of the Company s corporate headquarters site. Also included in the Administrative segment is interest expense, interest and investment income, certain expenses related to closed facilities and environmental-related matters and other expenses which are not directly associated with the Reportable Segments. The Administrative segment does not include any significant foreign operations. Also included in the Administrative segment is the operations of a real estate management unit that is responsible for the ownership, management and leasing of non-retail properties held primarily for use by the Company and disposal of idle facilities. Sales of this segment represent external leasing revenue. Material gains and losses from the sale of property are infrequent and not a significant operating factor in determining the performance of the Administrative segment. Raw Materials and Products Purchased for Resale Raw materials and products purchased for resale make up the majority of our consolidated Cost of goods sold. Raw materials may vary considerably by the specific paint or coating being manufactured but can generally be divided into the following categories: resins and latex, pigments, additives, solvents, and metal or plastic containers. A significant portion of these raw materials are derived from various upstream petrochemical and related commodity feedstocks, notably propylene. Raw materials are sourced from multiple suppliers globally, typically within the geographic region where our products are being manufactured. A portion of specialized resins and other products are manufactured in house. We also purchase a variety of products for resale that are highly complementary to our paint and coating offerings, notably spray equipment and parts, floorcovering and assorted sundries. We attempt, if feasible, to mitigate our potential risk associated with the sourcing of our raw materials and other products through inventory management, strategic relationships with key suppliers, alternative sourcing strategies and long-term investments to expand our manufacturing capabilities. See Item 1A Risk Factors for more information regarding cost and sourcing of raw materials. Seasonality The majority of the sales for the Reportable Segments traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. Periods of economic downturn, however, can alter these seasonal patterns. There is no significant seasonality in sales for the Administrative segment. Working Capital In order to meet increased demand during the second and third quarters, the Company usually builds its inventories during the first quarter. Working capital items (inventories and accounts receivable) are generally financed through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of the Company s liquidity and capital resources, see Item 7 Financial Condition, Liquidity and Cash Flow. Trademarks and Trade Names Customer recognition of trademarks and trade names owned or licensed by the Company collectively contribute significantly to our sales. The major trademarks and trade names used by each of the Reportable Segments are set forth below. Paint Stores Group: Sherwin-Williams , A-100 , Builders Solution , Captivate , Cashmere , Duration , Emerald , Gallery Series , Kem Tone , Latitude , Loxon , Metalatex , Novacor , Painters Edge Plus , ProClassic , ProCraft , Pro Industrial , ProMar , Scuff Tuff , SuperDeck , SuperPaint , Woodscapes Consumer Brands Group: Cabot , Colorgin , Condor , Dupli-Color , Dutch Boy , Geocel , HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams, Krylon , Minwax , Purdy , Ronseal , Thompson s WaterSeal , Valspar , White Lightning Performance Coatings Group: Sherwin-Williams , Acrolon , AcromaPro , ATX , DeBeer Refinish , Duraspar , EcoDex , Envirolastic , Excelo , EzDex , Fastline , Firetex , Fluropon , Gross Perthun , Heat-Flex , House of Kolor , Huarun , ICA , Inver , Kem Aqua , Klumpp Coatings , Lazzuril , Macropoxy , Martin 2 Table of Contents Senour , Matrix Edge , M.L. Campbell , Octoral , Oskar Nolte , PermaClad , Polane , Powdura , Sayerlack , Sher-Wood , Sumar , Ultra 9K , Ultra 7000 , ValPure , Valspar Patents Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to our business as a whole or any segment, the Performance Coatings Group derives a portion of its income from the licensing of technology, trademarks and trade names to foreign companies. Backlog and Productive Capacity Backlog orders are not typically significant in the business of any Reportable Segment since there is normally a short period of time between the placing of an order and shipment. We believe that sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill our needs for paint, coatings and related products during 2024. Competition We experience competition from many local, regional, national and international competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. We are a leading manufacturer and retailer of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers, however, our competitive position varies for our different products and markets. In the Paint Stores Group, competitors include other paint and wallpaper stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets. Product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage for this segment. In the Consumer Brands Group, domestic and foreign competitors include manufacturers and distributors of branded and private-label paint and coatings products as well as other paint and wallpaper stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for this segment. The Performance Coatings Group has numerous competitors in its domestic and foreign markets with broad product offerings and several others with niche products. Key competitive factors for this segment include technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price. The Administrative segment has many competitors consisting of other real estate owners, developers and managers in areas in which this segment owns property. The main competitive factors are the availability of property and price. Human Capital Resources Our commitment to our people is embedded in the Company s corporate purpose and guiding values. Through the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of innovative paint and coatings products, our employees are instrumental in fulfilling our corporate purpose to inspire and improve the world by coloring and protecting what matters. The Company s seven guiding values integrity, people, service, quality, performance, innovation and growth drive how we fulfill our purpose, emphasize the importance of our global workforce and serve as the foundation of our culture of excellence. At December 31, 2023, we employed 64,088 people worldwide, of which approximately 75% were in the United States and 25% were in other global regions. The success of our business and our ability to execute on our strategy depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain, develop and progress qualified employees with diverse skills, experiences and perspectives at all levels of our organization. To deliver on these objectives, we have developed key programs, policies and initiatives focused on belonging and culture, talent acquisition and employee engagement, occupational health and safety and total rewards, which includes compensation and benefits programs and practices. Belonging and Culture . We strive to foster a culture of belonging to drive employee engagement and performance while attracting, retaining, developing and progressing a diverse pipeline of talent that reflects the communities in which we operate. As reflected in our Code of Conduct and reinforced through our actions, training and attitudes, fostering an inclusive culture is a moral and business imperative. The building blocks of our culture include: Communicating impact: Sharing the Company story, goals and priorities at all levels, and educating our workforce on allyship and belonging. Leading with inclusion: Creating a culture where we are open and leverage the unique contributions of each employee to positively impact our people and business results. 3 Table of Contents Empowering everyone: Investing in our people by providing collaboration, development and learning opportunities to drive retention, progression and engagement. Committing to action: Empowering and engaging leaders to use tools and resources to take meaningful action to foster a culture of belonging for all employees. While our commitment starts at the top, with a Board of Directors with diverse skills, backgrounds and experiences, creating a supportive, welcoming environment across our global footprint is the shared responsibility of all of our employees, including our senior leaders. We strive to ensure our senior leaders have the resources they need to foster inclusion and belonging and ultimately leverage the diversity of our workforce to deliver customer-focused differentiated products, services and solutions. Our senior leaders attend an education and training session every year, and we hold CEO Forums on Inclusion, led by our CEO and other senior leaders, designed to encourage open discussions with employees about opportunities to advance our culture of belonging. In 2023, we also continued our focus on driving allyship and empathy through conscious inclusion training and elevating the visibility and prominence of our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). These are voluntary, employee-led communities with a shared purpose of developing connections between and among employees and allies with diverse backgrounds. We have over 300 chapters globally that bring together employees from various groups, divisions and functional teams to foster more inclusive workplaces, create greater synergy around business objectives and serve as a hub for professional development and mentorship opportunities that enable our employees to thrive and find long-term success at Sherwin-Williams. Talent Acquisition and Employee Engagement. We strive to attract, retain, develop and progress a workforce that embraces our culture of inclusion through an integrated talent management strategy. This strategy connects major milestones in the employee journey, including talent acquisition, onboarding, performance management, leadership and management development, succession and career progression, and is supported by our focus on employee engagement, culture, workforce analytics and information technology governance. The Company s early talent programs, including our management trainee program and similar programs across our global business, play a critical role in attracting, developing and advancing a pipeline of talent with diverse skills, backgrounds and experiences. During 2023, we hired approximately 1,400 college graduates through our management trainee program as part of our long-term growth initiatives. We also collaborate with various colleges and universities to continue to broaden our talent pipeline with qualified women, underrepresented racial or ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, veterans and other candidates. We invest in our people by providing learning and employee networking opportunities, including through our ERGs, to drive retention, development and engagement and help employees excel in their current and future roles. During 2023, our employees completed thousands of hours of online and instructor-led courses across a broad range of categories, including leadership, professional skills, technical skills and compliance. We measure our progress toward creating a culture of belonging that empowers employees to learn, grow and achieve their aspirations by conducting periodic pulse surveys and a global engagement survey, which we conducted in 2023 and expect to conduct every other year. We are focused on using these survey results to drive continued progress with our efforts. Occupational Health and Safety. Providing safe and healthy working environments for our employees is a core value. We have a consistent focus on Environmental, Health and Safety excellence that promotes employee health and safety, process safety and occupational health, including evaluation and implementation of preventative measures to reduce workplace injuries and illness. We strive for incident-free workplaces and are continuously assessing and improving the programs that are in place to help keep our employees, customers and communities safe, including by improving our global management systems, standards and performance measures. Total Rewards. We prioritize the fair, consistent and equitable treatment of our employees in relation to working conditions, wages, benefits, policies and procedures. The Company s policies and programs are designed to respond to the needs of our employees in a manner that provides a safe, professional, efficient and rewarding workplace. Our total rewards programs are designed to offer competitive compensation, comprehensive benefits and other programs to support employees growth, both personally and professionally, and the diverse needs and well-being of our employees worldwide. Over the past few years, we have enhanced certain of the Company s benefits and practices to support the health and well-being of our employees. Our enhanced benefits have included tele-health, paid sick leave, family leave and voluntary leave of absence policies and programs. We also have rewarded our employees resiliency and hard work and made changes in our business to encourage retention, including through wage increases, reduced store hours and employee benefits enhancements. Additionally, in 2023, we continued to permit remote, alternate and flexible work arrangements where possible to promote increased flexibility and support employee health and well-being, while maintaining our focus on collaboration and engagement. Regulatory Compliance For additional information regarding environmental-related matters, see Notes 1, 11 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 4 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Certain statements contained in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Letter to Shareholders and elsewhere in this report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based upon management s current expectations, predictions, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions and may discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance (including sales and earnings), expected growth, future business plans and the costs and potential liability for environmental-related matters and the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as believe, expect, estimate, project, plan, goal, target, potential, intend, aspire, strive, may, will, should, could, would, seek, or anticipate or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results, performance and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include such things as: general business conditions, including the strength of retail and manufacturing economies and growth in the coatings industry; changes in general domestic and international economic conditions, including due to changes in inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor costs, healthcare costs, recessionary conditions, geopolitical conditions, government policies, laws and regulations; weakening of global credit markets and our ability to generate cash to service our indebtedness; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including as a result of inflation, central bank monetary policies, currency controls and other exchange restrictions; any disruption in the availability of, or increases in the price of, raw material and energy supplies; disruptions in the supply chain, including those related to industry capacity constraints, raw material availability, transportation and logistics delays and constraints, political instability or civil unrest; catastrophic events, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including those that may be related to climate change or otherwise; losses of or changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers; competitive factors, including pricing pressures and product innovation and quality; our ability to successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations, as well as the performance of the businesses acquired; risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in Asia, Europe, South America and other foreign markets, including general economic conditions, policy changes affecting international trade, political instability, inflation rates, recessions, sanctions, foreign currency exchange rates and controls, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, armed conflicts and wars (including the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war) and other economic and political factors; cybersecurity incidents and other disruptions to our information technology systems, and our reliance on information technology systems; our ability to attract, retain, develop and progress a qualified global workforce; our ability to execute on our business strategies related to sustainability matters, and achieve related expectations, including as a result of evolving regulatory and other standards, processes, and assumptions, the pace of scientific and technological developments, increased costs and the availability of requisite financing, and changes in carbon markets; damage to our business, reputation, image or brands due to negative publicity; our ability to protect or enforce our material trademarks and other intellectual property rights; our ability to comply with numerous and evolving U.S. and non-U.S. laws, rules, and regulations and the effectiveness of our compliance efforts; adverse changes to our tax positions in U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions, including as a result of new or revised tax laws or interpretations; increasingly stringent domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those affecting health, safety and the environment; inherent uncertainties involved in assessing our potential liability for environmental-related activities; 5 Table of Contents other changes in governmental policies, laws and regulations, including changes in tariff policies, accounting policies and standards; and the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation and other claims, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, and the effect of any legislation and administrative regulations relating thereto. Readers are cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results and that the above list should not be considered a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below and in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risks affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition in the future. Readers should not interpret the disclosure of any risk factor to imply that the risk has not already materialized. ECONOMIC AND STRATEGIC RISKS Adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. We operate all over the world serving customers in more than 120 countries. Our business, operations, and business plans and strategies are sensitive to global and regional business and economic conditions. Adverse changes in such conditions in the United States and worldwide have in the past impacted and may in the future reduce the demand for some of our products, adversely impact our ability to predict and meet any future changes in the demand for our products, and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Changes in inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor costs, healthcare costs, recession