Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Item 9B. Other Information 90 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 90 Item 11. Executive Compensation 90 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 90 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 90 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 90 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 91 Signatures 94 PART I (Dollars and shares in millions, unless otherwise noted, except per share data) Item 1. Business. The Company: The J. M. Smucker Company ( Company, registrant, we, us, or our ), often referred to as Smucker s (a registered trademark), was established in 1897 and incorporated in Ohio in 1921. We operate principally in one industry, the manufacturing and marketing of branded food and beverage products on a worldwide basis, although the majority of our sales are in the United States ( U.S. ). Operations outside the U.S. are principally in Canada, although our products are exported to other countries as well. Net sales outside the U.S., subject to foreign currency translation, represented 5 percent of consolidated net sales for 2024. Our branded food and beverage products include a strong portfolio of trusted, iconic, market-leading brands that are sold to consumers primarily through retail outlets in North America. On November 7, 2023, we completed a cash and stock transaction to acquire Hostess Brands, Inc. ( Hostess Brands ), a manufacturer and marketer of sweet baked goods brands, including Hostess Donettes , Twinkies , CupCakes , DingDongs , Zingers , CoffeeCakes , HoHos , Mini Muffins , and Fruit Pies , and the Voortman cookie brand, which resulted in a new reportable segment for 2024, Sweet Baked Snacks. We have four reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads, and U.S. Retail Pet Foods (the U.S. retail market segments ) and Sweet Baked Snacks. These segments in total comprised 85 percent of consolidated net sales in 2024 and represent a major portion of our strategic focus the sale of branded food and beverage products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. Additionally, we sell products both domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels and foodservice distributors and operators through the Sweet Baked Snacks segment and the combined International and Away From Home operating segments. During 2024, the historical U.S. Retail Consumer Foods reportable segment was renamed to U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads; however, there was no change to the manner in which the segment was previously presented. For additional information on our reportable segments, see Note 5: Reportable Segments. On January 2, 2024, we sold the Canada condiment business to TreeHouse Foods, Inc. ( TreeHouse Foods ). The transaction included Bick s pickles, Habitant pickled beets, Woodman s horseradish, and McLarens pickled onions brands, inclusive of certain trademarks. Under our ownership, these brands generated net sales of $43.8, $61.6, and $62.7 in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, which were included in the International operating segment. On November 1, 2023, we sold the Sahale Snacks business to Second Nature Brands ( Second Nature ). The transaction included products sold under the Sahale Snacks brand, inclusive of certain trademarks and licensing agreements, a leased manufacturing facility in Seattle, Washington, and approximately 100 employees who supported the brand. Under our ownership, the Sahale Snacks brand generated net sales of $24.1, $48.4, and $47.4 in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment. On April 28, 2023, we sold certain pet food brands to Post Holdings, Inc. ( Post ). The transaction included the Rachael Ray Nutrish , 9Lives , Kibbles n Bits , Nature s Recipe , and Gravy Train brands, as well as the private label pet food business, inclusive of certain trademarks and licensing agreements, manufacturing and distribution facilities in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, manufacturing facilities in Meadville, Pennsylvania and Lawrence, Kansas, and approximately 1,100 employees who supported these pet food brands. Under our ownership, these brands generated net sales of $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. On January 31, 2022, we sold the natural beverage and grains businesses to Nexus Capital Management LP ( Nexus ). The transaction included products sold under the R.W. Knudsen and TruRoots brands, inclusive of certain trademarks, a licensing agreement for Santa Cruz Organic beverages, dedicated manufacturing and distribution facilities in Chico, California and Havre de Grace, Maryland, and approximately 150 employees who supported the natural beverage and grains businesses. The transaction did not include Santa Cruz Organic nut butters, fruit spreads, syrups, or applesauce. Under our ownership, the businesses generated net sales of $106.7 in 2022, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment. On December 1, 2021, we sold the private label dry pet food business to Diamond Pet Foods, Inc. ( Diamond Pet Foods ). The transaction included dry pet food products sold under private label brands, a dedicated manufacturing facility located in Frontenac, Kansas, and approximately 220 employees who supported the private label dry pet food business. The transaction 2 did not include any branded products or our private label wet pet food business. Under our ownership, the business generated net sales of $62.3 in 2022, included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. For additional information on the acquisition and divestitures, see Note 2: Acquisition and Note 3: Divestitures. Principal Products: In 2024, our principal products were coffee, pet snacks, peanut butter, cat food, frozen handheld products, sweet baked goods, fruit spreads, portion control products, baking mixes and ingredients, toppings and syrups, dog food, and cookies. Product sales information for the years 2024, 2023, and 2022 is included within Note 5: Reportable Segments. Products within our U.S. retail market segments are primarily sold through a combination of direct sales and brokers to food retailers, club stores, discount and dollar stores, online retailers, pet specialty stores, drug stores, military commissaries, mass merchandisers, and distributors. The Sweet Baked Snacks segment includes products distributed across all channels, both domestically and in foreign countries, such as supermarket chains, national mass retailers, convenience stores, club stores, discount and dollar stores, drug stores, and the vending channel. International and Away From Home includes the sale of all products that are distributed in foreign countries through retail channels, as well as domestically and in foreign countries through foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., healthcare operators, restaurants, educational institutions, offices, lodging and gaming establishments, and convenience stores). Sources and Availability of Raw Materials: The raw materials used in each of our segments are primarily commodities, agricultural-based products, and packaging materials. Green coffee, peanuts, oils and fats, flour, sugar, fruit, and other ingredients are obtained from various suppliers. The availability, quality, and costs of many of these commodities have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate over time, partially driven by the elevated commodity and supply chain costs we have continued to experience in 2024. We actively monitor changes in commodity and supply chain costs, and to mitigate the fluctuation of costs, we may be required to implement material price increases or decreases across our business. Futures, basis, options, and fixed-price contracts are used to manage price volatility for a significant portion of our commodity costs. Green coffee, along with certain other raw materials, is sourced solely from foreign countries, and its supply and price is subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, global supply and demand, product scarcity, plant disease, investor speculation, geopolitical conflicts (including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas), changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations, and political and economic conditions in the source countries. We source peanuts, protein meals, and oils and fats mainly from North America. The principal packaging materials we use are plastic, glass, metal cans, caps, carton board, and corrugate. For additional information on the commodities we purchase, see Commodities Overview within Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Raw materials are generally available from numerous sources, although we have elected to source certain plastic packaging materials for our Folgers coffee products, as well as our Jif peanut butter, and certain finished goods, such as K-Cup pods, our Pup-Peroni dog snacks, and liquid coffee, from primary or single sources of supply pursuant to long-term contracts. While availability may vary year to year, we have not historically encountered significant shortages of key raw materials, and we believe that we will continue to obtain adequate supplies. We consider our relationships with key raw material suppliers to be in good standing. Trademarks and Patents: Many of our products are produced and sold under various patents and patents pending, and marketed under trademarks owned or licensed by us or one of our subsidiaries. Our major trademarks as of April 30, 2024, are listed below. Primary Reportable Segment Major Trademark U.S. Retail Coffee Folgers , Dunkin , and Caf Bustelo U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads Uncrustables , Jif , and Smucker s U.S. Retail Pet Foods Meow Mix , Milk-Bone , Pup-Peroni , and Canine Carry Outs Sweet Baked Snacks Hostess and Voortman Other (A) Folgers , Smucker s , and Uncrustables (A) Represents the combined International and Away From Home operating segments. Dunkin is a trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under three licenses (the Dunkin Licenses ) for packaged coffee products, including K-Cup pods, sold in retail channels, such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, e- 3 commerce, and drug stores, as well as in certain away from home channels. The Dunkin Licenses do not pertain to coffee or other products for sale in Dunkin restaurants. The terms of the Dunkin Licenses include the payment of royalties to an affiliate of DD IP Holder LLC and other financial commitments by the Company. The Dunkin Licenses are in effect until January 1, 2039. Keurig and K-Cup are trademarks of Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. ( Keurig ), used with permission. Slogans or designs considered to be important trademarks include, without limitation, With A Name Like Smucker s, It Has To Be Good , The Best Part of Wakin Up Is Folgers In Your Cup , That Jif ing Good , The Only One Cats Ask For By Name , the Smucker s banner, the Uncrustables Round, Crustless Sandwich design, the Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, the Jif Color Banner design, the Caf Bustelo Angelina design, and the Milk-Bone and Meow Mix logos. We own many patents worldwide in addition to utilizing proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered. We consider all of our owned and licensed intellectual property, taken as a whole, to be essential to our business. Seasonality: The U.S. retail market segments do not experience significant seasonality, as demand for our products is generally consistent throughout the year. However, the Sweet Baked Snacks segment does experience moderate seasonality, with declines during the early winter period due to the holiday season. Customers: Sales to Walmart Inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 33 percent of net sales in 2024 and 34 percent in both 2023 and 2022. These sales are primarily included in our U.S. retail market segments. No other customer exceeded 10 percent of net sales for any year. During 2024, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. Supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors continue to consolidate, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. Although the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits, we do not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to strong consumer demand for our brands. Government Business: No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. Competition: We are the branded market leader in the coffee, dog snacks, peanut butter, frozen snacks and sandwiches, and fruit spreads categories in the U.S. In Canada, we are the branded market leader in the flour, fruit spreads, canned milk, and ice cream toppings categories. Our business is highly competitive as all of our brands compete with other branded products as well as private label products. In order to remain competitive, companies in the food industry need to consider emerging consumer preferences, technological advances, product and packaging innovations, and the growth of certain retail channels, such as the e-commerce market. The primary ways in which products and brands are distinguished include brand recognition, product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, advertising, promotion, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Positive factors pertaining to our competitive position include well-recognized brands, high-quality products, consumer trust, experienced brand and category management, varied product offerings, product innovation, responsive customer service, and an integrated distribution network. The packaged foods industry has been challenged by a general long-term decline in sales volume in the center of the store. Certain evolving consumer trends have contributed to the longer-term decline, such as a heightened focus on health and wellness, an increased desire for fresh foods, and the growing impact of social media and e-commerce on consumer behavior. To address these dynamics, we continue to focus on innovation with an increased emphasis on products that satisfy evolving consumer trends. However, in recent years, there has been an increase in sales primarily driven by changes in consumer behaviors, including employees working at home more frequently. In addition, private label continues to be a competitor in the categories in which we compete, partially due to improvements in private label quality, the increased emphasis of store brands by retailers in an effort to cultivate customer loyalty, and a movement toward lower-priced offerings during economic downturns or instances of increased inflationary pressures. For the U.S. retail market segments, private label held a 13.7 dollar average market share during the 52 weeks ended April 21, 2024, for the categories in which we compete, as compared to a 12.1 dollar average market share during the same period in the prior 4 year. Within the Sweet Baked Snacks segment, private label held a 6.8 dollar average market share during the 52 weeks ended April 27, 2024, for the categories in which we compete. We believe that both private label and leading brands play an important role in the categories in which we compete, appealing to different consumer segments. We closely monitor the price gap, or price premium, between our brands and private label brands, with the view that value is about more than price and the expectation that number one brands will continue to be an integral part of consumers shopping baskets. Our primary brands and major competitors as of April 30, 2024, are listed below. Our Primary Products Our Primary Brands Competing Brands Competitors U.S. Retail Coffee Mainstream roast and ground coffee Folgers (A) and Caf Bustelo Maxwell House and Yuban The Kraft Heinz Company Private label brands Various McCaf Keurig Dr. Pepper Cafe La Llave F. Gavi a Sons, Inc. Single serve coffee K-Cup Dunkin , Folgers , and Caf Bustelo Private label brands Various Green Mountain Coffee (A) , Donut Shop , and McCaf Keurig Dr. Pepper Starbucks Nestl S.A. Peet s Coffee Tea JDE Peet s N.V. Maxwell House and Gevalia The Kraft Heinz Company Premium coffee Dunkin Starbucks (A) and Seattle s Best Coffee Nestl S.A. Private label brands Various Peet s Coffee Tea JDE Peet s N.V. Eight O Clock Tata Global Beverages Limited Community Coffee Community Coffee Company Gevalia The Kraft Heinz Company U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads Peanut butter and specialty spreads Jif ( A) Private label brands Various Skippy Hormel Foods Corporation Nutella Ferrero SpA Peter Pan Post Holdings, Inc. Fruit spreads Smucker s (A) Private label brands Various Welch s Welch Foods Inc. Bonne Maman Andros Foods USA, Inc. Frozen sandwiches and snacks Smucker s Uncrustables Hot Pockets (A) Nestl S.A. Totino s General Mills, Inc. El Monterrey Ruiz Foods Private label brands Various U.S. Retail Pet Foods Mainstream cat food Meow Mix Cat Chow (A) , Friskies , Kit Kaboodle , and Fancy Feast Nestl Purina PetCare Company Iams and Sheba Mars, Incorporated Pet snacks Milk-Bone (A) , Pup-Peroni , and Canine Carry Outs Beggin Strips Nestl Purina PetCare Company Blue Buffalo and Nudges General Mills, Inc. Dentastix and Greenies Mars, Incorporated Private label brands Various Sweet Baked Snacks Sweet baked goods Hostess Little Debbie (A) McKee Foods Corporation Entenmann s Grupo Bimbo, S.A. Private label brands Various, Flower Foods, Inc. Cookies Voortman Nabisco (A) Mondelez International Private label brands Various 5 International and Away From Home Foodservice hot beverage Folgers , 1850 , and Caf Bustelo Starbucks Nestl S.A. Private label brands Various Nescaf Soci t des Produits Nestl S.A. Foodservice portion control Smucker s and Jif Private label brands Various, including Diamond Crystal Brands Heinz , Welch s , and Private Label Brands The Kraft Heinz Company Foodservice frozen handheld Smucker s Uncrustables Hot Off the Grill Integrated Food Service Classic Delight Classic Delight Inc. Canada coffee Folgers Tim Hortons (A) Restaurant Brands International Inc. Maxwell House The Kraft Heinz Company Private label brands Various Canada flour Robin Hood (A) and Five Roses Private label brands Various (A) Identifies the current market leader within the product category. In certain categories, the market leader is not identified as two or more brands compete for the largest share. Government Regulations: Our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the U.S., including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the FDA ), U.S. Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Additionally, we are subject to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in Canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. In particular, the manufacturing, marketing, transportation, storage, distribution, packaging disposal, and sale of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive. Governmental regulation encompasses such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains bioengineered ingredients), packaging and disposal of packaging, labeling (including use of certain terms such as sugar free, healthy, low sodium, and low fat), pricing, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, data privacy and security, and anti-corruption, as well as an increased focus regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions, energy, and sustainability, including single-use plastics. We are subject to tax and securities regulations, accounting and reporting standards, and other financial laws and regulations. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, including in-house and outside counsel, to guide our business in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. We believe we are in compliance with such laws and regulations and do not expect continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position in 2025. Environmental Matters: Compliance with environmental regulations and prioritizing our environmental sustainability efforts are important to us as a responsible corporate citizen. As such, we have public goals related to waste diversion, water usage, energy usage, greenhouse gas emissions, and sustainable packaging. In support of our commitment to environmental sustainability, we have implemented and manage a variety of programs across our operations, including energy optimization, utilization of renewable energy, water conservation, recycling, and, in our supply chains, we support projects that increase sustainable practices. We continue to evaluate and modify our processes to further limit our impact on the environment. Human Capital Management: Our values and principles are rooted in our Basic Beliefs to Be Bold , Be Kind , Do the Right Thing , Play to Win , and Thrive Together , which serve as the foundation for everything we do as an organization and are clear, concise, and actionable to help our employees continue to bring our unique culture to life, as our employees are among our most important resources. Our employees are critical to our success as a company, and we are committed to supporting them holistically, both personally and professionally. With almost 9,000 full-time employees worldwide, every employee makes a difference to our Company. We believe it is critical that we have an inclusive and diverse environment and that we take proactive steps to ensure we are enabling our employees to reach their full potential. To hold ourselves accountable, we conduct an employee engagement survey annually to provide an opportunity for open and confidential feedback from our employees and to help guide our organization priorities for the upcoming fiscal year. Additionally, we conduct functional pulse surveys as needed to gain additional information based on responses to the larger engagement survey, or in sub-groups of our employee population where a specific topic or question may be needed. These surveys are supplemented by regular Company Town Halls, which help to foster an environment of transparency and two-way communication. Employees also have the opportunity to anonymously report violations of the Commitment to Integrity: Our Code ( Code of Conduct ) or complaints regarding accounting, auditing, and financial-related matters through our Smucker Voice Line the Integrity Portal ( Portal ). The Portal also can be utilized by customers, contractors, vendors, and their employees, as well as any others in a business relationship with our Company. To further support our commitment to ethics and our basic belief, Do the 6 Right Thing , our employees are also asked to participate in Ethics and Compliance Surveys, to help us understand our strengths and identify opportunities for future ethics and compliance programs and training. We track our progress in the Ethics and Compliance space through ongoing assessments of our internal programs and through our Ethics and Compliance Survey, as well as through dedicated questions included in our annual Employee Engagement Survey, and we are pleased to share that our Company was recognized in 2024 as one of the World s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere. Additional information regarding our human capital management is available in our 2023 Corporate Impact Report that can be found on our website at www.jmsmucker.com/news-stories/corporate-publications. Information on our website, including our 2023 Corporate Impact Report, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Health and Wellness: Maintaining a safe and healthy workplace is among our top priorities and is aligned with our basic belief, Do the Right Thing . We are diligent in ensuring workforce health and safety through education and training which is provided at all locations. Our health and safety internal assessments conducted at each of our production facilities quarterly, as well as periodic external assessments, confirm our compliance with safety regulations and corporate policies. The teams document the results and determine corrective actions to ensure we hold ourselves accountable for providing a safe work environment. During 2024, we achieved a total recordable incident rate that is four times below the national average for our industry peers as a result of these efforts. As part of our focus on well-being, we emphasize the need for our employees to embrace healthy lifestyles. We offer all employees a variety of free and discounted services, as well as educational opportunities, to support their physical, emotional, and financial well-being, including free sessions through our Employee Assistance Program. We also offer onsite conveniences, such as health and wellness centers at several of our locations and a Child Development Center at our corporate headquarters in Orrville, Ohio. In addition, we provide our employees with paid time off to renew and programs to promote workplace flexibility. Further, we have continued to promote the importance of self-care and the availability of mental health resources to our employees. In recognition of the need for mental health resources across society, we have partnered with the National Alliance on Mental Health to provide support for our employees and communities. Their mental health services and self-care programs benefit our employees by raising awareness and providing additional support and education for mental health. Additionally, in 2024, we partnered with The Village Network on their Early Childhood Mental Health initiatives. This commitment will provide access to important mental health and educational services for families and their children from birth to age five and will be provided by Therapeutic Childcare Centers. Diversity and Inclusion: We believe having an inclusive culture and the expertise of diverse professionals across our business that reflects our consumers is critical to our success and is in alignment with our basic belief, Thrive Together . Our commitment to inclusion, diversity, and equity ( ID E ) is focused around the following three aspirations: Enhance Workplace Diversity within our U.S. salaried employee community by aspiring to double the representation of People of Color and increasing the presence of women at all senior levels by 2027; Increase Equity Through Expanded Opportunities by evaluating training programs and practices, including lateral assignments and promotions, to support equitable opportunities for all; and Foster an Inclusive Workplace by establishing measurable expectations for participation in select employee resource group ( ERG ) sponsored events and education and the development of integrated strategy, aspirations, and prioritized initiatives across our ERGs. In support of these aspirations, we have made important progress on our commitment to create an environment where our employees are supported, and differences are truly celebrated. We have successfully introduced ERGs, which are all voluntary, employee-led groups that represent a unique community. The purpose of these groups is to create inclusion where all can see themselves and feel a part of our Company. We have eight ERGs, as well as our Advocate Alliance group, to support employees and encourage allyship. Our ERGs include BLAC (Black Leadership and Ally Council); PRIDE Alliance (i.e., LGBTQ+); GROW (Greater Resources and Opportunities for Women); RAICES (i.e., Latino/a/x and Hispanic contributions); AFVA (Armed Forces Veterans and Allies); CAPIA (Community of Asians, Pacific Islanders, and Allies); ADDAPT (Advocating for Disabilities and Diverse Abilities by Partnering Together); and YP (Young Professionals), which all employees are encouraged to join as either a member or ally. Additionally, we have coordinated more than 10,000 hours of employee programming on education and understanding, hosted panels to reflect the unique experiences of underrepresented groups to increase employee awareness while encouraging empathy and allyship, and published regular content to celebrate our differences and increase understanding. 7 We approach diversity from the top-down, exemplified by our Board of Directors (the Board ), where 4 of 10 directors are women and 3 of 10 directors are racially or ethnically diverse. Additionally, 43 percent of our executive and senior management team members are women, inclusive of 3 of 6 memb