Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 85 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11. Executive Compensation 86 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 86 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 86 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 86 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 87 Signatures 90 PART I Item 1. Business. The Company: The J. M. Smucker Company ( Company, registrant, we, us, or our ), often referred to as Smucker s (a registered trademark), was established in 1897 and incorporated in Ohio in 1921. We operate principally in one industry, the manufacturing and marketing of branded food and beverage products on a worldwide basis, although the majority of our sales are in the U.S. Our operations outside the U.S. are principally in Canada, although products are exported to other countries as well. Net sales outside the U.S., subject to foreign currency translation, represented 5 percent of consolidated net sales for 2022. Our branded food and beverage products include a strong portfolio of trusted, iconic, market-leading brands that are sold to consumers through retail outlets in North America. We have three reportable segments: U.S. Retail Pet Foods, U.S. Retail Coffee, and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods. The U.S. retail market segments in total comprised 87 percent of 2022 consolidated net sales and represent a major portion of our strategic focus the sale of branded food and beverage products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. International and Away From Home represents sales outside of the U.S. retail market segments. For additional information on our reportable segments, see Note 4: Reportable Segments. On January 31, 2022, we sold the natural beverage and grains businesses to Nexus Capital Management LP ( Nexus ). The transaction included products sold under the R.W. Knudsen and TruRoots brands, inclusive of certain trademarks, a licensing agreement for Santa Cruz Organic beverages, dedicated manufacturing and distribution facilities in Chico, California, and Havre de Grace, Maryland, and approximately 150 employees who supported the natural beverage and grains businesses. The transaction did not include Santa Cruz Organic nut butters, fruit spreads, syrups, or applesauce. Under our ownership, the businesses generated net sales of $106.7, $143.4, and $131.6 in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment. On December 1, 2021, we sold the private label dry pet food business to Diamond Pet Foods, Inc. ( Diamond Pet Foods ). The transaction included dry pet food products sold under private label brands, a dedicated manufacturing facility located in Frontenac, Kansas, and approximately 220 employees who supported the private label dry pet food business. The transaction did not include any branded products or our private label wet pet food business. Under our ownership, the business generated net sales of $62.3, $94.0, and $120.6 in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. On January 29, 2021, we sold the Natural Balance premium pet food business to Nexus. The transaction included pet food products sold under the Natural Balance brand, certain trademarks and licensing agreements, and select employees who supported the Natural Balance business. Under our ownership, the business generated net sales of $156.7 and $222.8 in 2021 and 2020, respectively, included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. On December 1, 2020, we sold the Crisco oils and shortening business to B G Foods, Inc. ( B G Foods ). The transaction included oils and shortening products sold under the Crisco brand, primarily in the U.S. and Canada, certain trademarks and licensing agreements, dedicated manufacturing and warehouse facilities located in Cincinnati, Ohio, and approximately 160 employees who supported the Crisco business. Under our ownership, the business generated net sales of $198.9 and $269.2 in 2021 and 2020, respectively, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment. For additional information on these divestitures, see Note 3: Divestitures. Principal Products: Our principal products as of April 30, 2022, are coffee, cat food, pet snacks, dog food, peanut butter, frozen handheld products, fruit spreads, portion control products, juices and beverages, as well as baking mixes and ingredients. Product sales information for the years 2022, 2021, and 2020 is included within Note 4: Reportable Segments. In the U.S. retail market segments, our products are primarily sold through a combination of direct sales and brokers to food retailers, club stores, discount and dollar stores, online retailers, pet specialty stores, natural foods stores and distributors, drug stores, military commissaries, and mass merchandisers. In International and Away From Home, our products are distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels and foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., health care operators, restaurants, lodging, hospitality, offices, K-12, colleges and universities, and convenience stores). Sources and Availability of Raw Materials: The raw materials used in each of our segments are primarily commodities, agricultural-based products, and packaging materials. Green coffee, peanuts, protein meals, oils and fats, grains, sweeteners, fruit, and other ingredients are obtained from various suppliers. The availability, quality, and costs of many of these 2 commodities have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate over time, partially driven by the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic. Futures, basis, options, and fixed price contracts are used to manage price volatility for a significant portion of our commodity costs. Green coffee, along with certain other raw materials, is sourced solely from foreign countries and its supply and price is subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, global supply and demand, plant disease, investor speculation, and political and economic conditions in the source countries. We source peanuts, protein meals, and oils and fats mainly from North America. The principal packaging materials we use are plastic, glass, metal cans, caps, carton board, and corrugate. For additional information on the commodities we purchase, see Commodities Overview within Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Raw materials are generally available from numerous sources, although we have elected to source certain plastic packaging materials and finished goods, such as K-Cup pods, our Pup-Peroni dog snacks, and liquid coffee, from single sources of supply pursuant to long-term contracts. While availability may vary year-to-year, we believe that we will continue to obtain adequate supplies and that alternatives to single-sourced materials are available. We have not historically encountered significant shortages of key raw materials. We consider our relationships with key raw material suppliers to be in good standing. Trademarks and Patents : Many of our products are produced and sold under various patents or patents pending, and marketed under trademarks owned or licensed by us or one of our subsidiaries. Our major trademarks as of April 30, 2022, are listed below. Primary Reportable Segment Major Trademark U.S. Retail Pet Foods Meow Mix , Rachael Ray Nutrish , Milk-Bone , 9Lives , Kibbles n Bits , Pup-Peroni, and Nature s Recipe U.S. Retail Coffee Folgers , Dunkin , and Caf Bustelo U.S. Retail Consumer Foods Uncrustables , Jif , and Smucker s Other (A) Smucker s and Folgers (A) Represents the combined International and Away From Home operating segments. Dunkin is a trademark of DD IP Holder LLC for packaged coffee products, including K-Cup pods, sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, e-commerce, and drug stores. Information included in this document does not pertain to coffee or other products for sale in Dunkin restaurants. The terms of the Dunkin license includes the payment of royalties to an affiliate of DD IP Holder LLC and other financial commitments by the Company. The Dunkin license is in effect until January 1, 2039. Keurig and K-Cup are trademarks of Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. ( Keurig ), used with permission. We utilize Rachael Ray s image and likeness and related Rachael Ray trademarks for premium pet food and pet snacks under an exclusive license which expires in 2063. The terms of the license include the payment of royalties to The Rachael Ray Foundation. Rachael Ray is a trademark of Ray Marks II LLC. In addition, we and our subsidiaries license the use of several other trademarks, none of which are individually material to our business. Slogans or designs considered to be important trademarks include, without limitation, With A Name Like Smucker s, It Has To Be Good , The Best Part of Wakin Up Is Folgers In Your Cup , Choosy Moms Choose Jif , That Jif ing Good TM , The Only One Cats Ask For By Name , the Smucker s banner, the Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, the Jif Color Banner design, the Caf Bustelo Angelina design, and the Milk-Bone , Meow Mix , and 9Lives logos. We own many patents worldwide in addition to proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered. We consider all of our owned and licensed intellectual property, taken as a whole, to be essential to our business. Seasonality: The U.S. Retail Pet Foods, U.S. Retail Coffee, and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments do not experience significant seasonality, as demand for our products is generally consistent throughout the year. 3 Customers: Sales to Walmart Inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 34 percent of net sales in 2022 and 32 percent of net sales in both 2021 and 2020. These sales are primarily included in our U.S. retail market segments. No other customer exceeded 10 percent of net sales for any year. During 2022, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. Supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors continue to consolidate, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. Although the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits, we do not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to strong consumer demand for our brands. Government Business: No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. Competition: We are the branded market leader in the coffee, dog snacks, peanut butter, and fruit spreads categories in the U.S. In Canada, we are the branded market leader in the pickles, flour, fruit spreads, canned milk, and ice cream toppings categories. Our business is highly competitive as all of our brands compete for retail shelf space with other branded products as well as private label products. In order to remain competitive, companies in the food industry need to consider emerging consumer preferences, technological advances, product and packaging innovations, and the growth of certain retail channels, such as the e-commerce market. The primary ways in which products and brands are distinguished are brand recognition, product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, advertising, promotion, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Positive factors pertaining to our competitive position include well-recognized brands, high-quality products, consumer trust, experienced brand and category management, a single national grocery broker in the U.S., varied product offerings, product innovation, good customer service, and an integrated distribution network. The packaged foods industry has been challenged by a general decline in sales volume in the center of the store. However, there has been a recent increase in sales primarily driven by changes in consumer behaviors, including employees working at home more frequently as a result of the pandemic. Certain evolving consumer trends have contributed to the longer-term decline, such as a heightened focus on health and wellness, an increased desire for fresh foods, and the growing impact of social media and e-commerce on consumer behavior. To address these dynamics, we continue to focus on innovation with an increased emphasis on products that satisfy evolving consumer trends. In addition, private label continues to be a competitor in many of the categories in which we compete, partially due to improvements in private label quality and the increased emphasis of store brands by retailers in an effort to cultivate customer loyalty. In our total U.S. retail categories, private label held a 11.5 dollar average market share during the 52 weeks ended April 17, 2022, as compared to a 12.2 dollar average market share during the same period in the prior year. We believe that both private label and leading brands play an important role in the categories in which we compete, appealing to different consumer segments. We closely monitor the price gap, or price premium, between our brands and private label brands, with the view that value is about more than price and the expectation that number one brands will continue to be an integral part of consumers shopping baskets. 4 Our primary brands and major competitors as of April 30, 2022, are listed below. Our Primary Products Our Primary Brands Competing Brands Competitors U.S. Retail Pet Foods Mainstream pet food Meow Mix, 9Lives, and Kibbles n Bits Dog Chow (A) , Beneful, Cat Chow (A) , Friskies, Kit Kaboodle, and Fancy Feast Nestl Purina PetCare Company Pedigree, Iams, and Sheba Mars, Incorporated Pet snacks Milk-Bone (A) and Pup-Peroni Beggin Strips Nestl Purina PetCare Company Nudges General Mills, Inc. Dentastix and Greenies Mars, Incorporated Premium pet food Rachael Ray Nutrish and Nature s Recipe Blue Buffalo (A) General Mills, Inc. Nutro Mars, Incorporated Hill s Hill s Pet Nutrition, Inc. Pro Plan, ONE, and Merrick Nestl Purina PetCare Company U.S. Retail Coffee Mainstream roast and ground coffee Folgers (A) and Caf Bustelo Maxwell House and Yuban The Kraft Heinz Company Private Label Brands Various McCaf Keurig Dr. Pepper Cafe La Llave F. Gavi a Sons, Inc. Single serve coffee - K-Cup Dunkin , Folgers, Caf Bustelo , and 1850 Green Mountain Coffee (A) , Donut Shop, and McCaf Keurig Dr. Pepper Starbucks Nestl S.A. Private Label Brands Various Maxwell House and Gevalia The Kraft Heinz Company Premium coffee Dunkin and 1850 Starbucks (A) and Seattle s Best Coffee Nestl S.A. Peet s Coffee Tea JDE Peet s N.V. Private Label Brands Various Eight O Clock Tata Global Beverages Limited Gevalia The Kraft Heinz Company U.S. Retail Consumer Foods Peanut butter and specialty spreads Jif (A) Private Label Brands Various Skippy Hormel Foods Corporation Nutella Ferrero SpA Peter Pan Post Holding, Inc. Fruit spreads Smucker s (A) Private Label Brands Various Welch s Welch Foods Inc. Bonne Maman Andros Foods USA, Inc. Frozen sandwiches and snacks Smucker s Uncrustables Hot Pockets (A) Nestl S.A. Totino s General Mills, Inc. El Monterrey Ruiz Foods International and Away From Home Foodservice hot beverage Folgers, 1850, and Caf Bustelo Starbucks Nestl S.A. Private Label Brands Various Nescaf Soci t des Produits Nestl S.A. Foodservice portion control Smucker s and Jif Private Label Brands Various Heinz, Welch s, and Private Label Brands The Kraft Heinz Company Foodservice frozen handheld Smucker s Uncrustables Hot Off the Grill Integrated Food Service Canada coffee Folgers Tim Hortons (A) Restaurant Brands International Inc. Maxwell House The Kraft Heinz Company Private Label Brands Various Canada flour Robin Hood (A) and Five Roses Private Label Brands Various (A) Identifies the current market leader within the product category. In certain categories, the market leader is not identified as two or more brands compete for the largest share. 5 Government Regulations: Our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the U.S., including the Food and Drug Administration, Federal Trade Commission, Departments of Labor, Commerce, and Agriculture, Environmental Protection Agency, and Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Additionally, we are subject to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in Canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. In particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, transportation, storage, distribution, and sale of food products are each subject to governmental regulation, encompassing such matters as ingredients, pricing, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, data privacy and security, anti-corruption, and the environment. Additionally, we are subject to tax and securities regulations, accounting and reporting standards, and other financial laws and regulations. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, including in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. We believe we are in compliance with such laws and regulations and do not expect continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position in 2023. Environmental Matters: Compliance with environmental regulations and prioritizing our environmental sustainability efforts are important to us as a good corporate citizen. As such, we have public goals related to waste diversion, water usage intensity reduction, greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction, and sustainable packaging. In support of our commitment to environmental sustainability, we have implemented and manage a variety of programs across our operations, including energy optimization, utilization of renewable energy, water conservation, recycling, and partnerships with farmers who implement sustainable practices. We continue to evaluate and modify our processes to further limit our impact on the environment. Human Capital Management: Our values and principles are rooted in our Basic Beliefs and serve as the foundation for our strategic and daily decisions. As demonstrated by our Basic Beliefs of Quality , People , Ethics , Growth , and Independence , we are committed to supporting our employees holistically, both personally and professionally. With approximately 6,700 full-time employees worldwide, every employee makes a difference to our Company. We believe it is critical that we have an inclusive and diverse environment and that we take proactive steps to ensure we are enabling our employees to reach their full potential. In order to hold ourselves accountable, we conduct an employee engagement survey every two to three years to provide an opportunity for open and confidential feedback from our employees and to identify opportunities for improvement. Additionally, we conduct pulse surveys as needed to gain additional information based on responses to the larger engagement survey and other topics that may be immediately applicable. Employees also have the opportunity to anonymously report violations to the Commitment to Integrity: Our Code ( Code of Conduct ) or complaints regarding accounting, auditing, and financial-related matters through our Smucker Voice Line, which is managed by an independent third-party service provider. Additional information regarding our human capital management is available in our 2021 Corporate Impact Report that can be found on our website at www.jmsmucker.com/news-stories/corporate-publications. Information on our website, including our 2021 Corporate Impact Report, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Health and Wellness: Maintaining a safe and healthy workplace is among our top priorities. We are diligent in ensuring workforce health and safety through education and training which is provided at all locations. These efforts resulted in our achievement of a total recordable incident rate during 2022 that is three times below the industry average. Further, we have maintained an unwavering commitment to supporting the health and well-being of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic. We have implemented extensive safety and sanitation measures to help ensure employee health and well-being, encouraged remote work for all who are able, and introduced protocols in our manufacturing facilities to allow for appropriate social distancing and protection of our employees. During the second half of 2022, COVID-19 cases began to trend downward, and consistent with national and local health department direction, certain pandemic related safety measures were relaxed at our corporate offices and manufacturing facilities. However, if these trends were to reverse or another variant became prevalent, we would reevaluate our safety protocols at that time. Further, we have continued to promote the importance of self-care and the availability of mental health resources to our employees. In recognition of the need for mental health resources across society, we have partnered with the United Way of Summit County 211 program and the National Council for Behavioral Health to provide support for our employees and communities. As part of our focus on well-being, we emphasize the need for our employees to embrace healthy lifestyles. We offer all employees a variety of free and discounted services, as well as education opportunities, to support their physical, emotional, and financial well-being, including free sessions through our Employee Assistance Program and access to discounted gym memberships. We also offer on-site conveniences, such as health and wellness centers at several of our locations and a Child 6 Development Center at our corporate headquarters in Orrville, Ohio. In addition, we provide our employees with time to renew and programs to promote workplace flexibility. Diversity and Inclusion: We believe having an inclusive culture and the expertise of diverse professionals across our business is critical to our success. Our commitment to inclusion, diversity, and equity is focused around the following three pillars: Workforce | Promoting a diverse workforce; Workplace | Maintaining an inclusive environment for all employees; and Marketplace | Sharing our efforts with external constituents to support greater cultural awareness and sensitivity in society. In support of these pillars, we have made important progress over the past year on our commitment to create an environment where our employees are supported and differences are truly celebrated. We have successfully introduced six business resource groups (as part of our employee resource groups network) and our Advocate Alliance group to support employees and encourage allyship. Our business resource groups include BLAC (Black Leadership and Ally Council); PRIDE Alliance (i.e., LGBTQ+); GROW (Greater Resources and Opportunities for Women); RAICES (i.e., Latino/a/x and Hispanic contributions); AFVA (Armed Forces Veterans and Allies); and CAPIA (Community of Asians, Pacific Islanders, and Allies), and we are continuing to work on the introduction of other groups. Additionally, we have coordinated more than 8,500 hours of employee programming on education and understanding, hosted panels to reflect the unique experiences of underrepresented groups to increase employee awareness while encouraging empathy and allyship, and published regular content to celebrate our differences and increase understanding. We approach diversity from the top-down, exemplified by our Board of Directors (the Board ), where 4 of 12 directors are women and 2 of 12 directors are racially or ethnically diverse. Additionally, 46 percent of our executive and senior management team members are women, inclusive of 3 of 7 members of our Executive Leadership Team, demonstrating our belief that a diverse team with a variety of viewpoints is important and further contributes to a more effective decision-making process and overall greater success. Furthermore, approximately 30 percent of our employees are women and 25 percent of our employees are racially or ethnically diverse. We recognize we have work to do to ensure a more inclusive and diverse organization, which is why we are implementing changes to our recruiting, hiring, and retention programs to improve diversity at all levels within our Company. Beginning in 2022, all executive officers have 10 percent of their annual cash incentive awards based on the achievement of our environmental, social, and governance ( ESG ) objectives, which are focused on our inclusion, diversity, and equity efforts. Further, we have partnered with the Akron Urban League, the Urban League of Greater Cleveland, the Equal Justice Initiative, the Human Rights Campaign, the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the Asian Americans Advancing Justice, and the Toronto Chapter of Chinese Canadian National Council to further our commitment to this cause and have committed more than $600,000 to these partners as part of multi-year partnerships. These organizations advocate for inclusion, racial justice, and the advancement of underrepresented and vulnerable people. To ensure ongoing progress against our commitments, we are evaluating our success through several measures, including reviews of organization health assessments, evaluation of workforce composition and minority representation across all levels of the organization, and successful integration of key programming. During 2022, due to our increased effort to support diversity and inclusion, our Corporate Equality Index ( CEI ) from the Human Rights Campaign was 95 out of 100 points, which increased from 80 and 55 points in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Specifically, we were able to increase the CEI index through enhancements to our transgender-inclusive health benefits, philanthropic contributions to and partnerships with LGBTQ+ organizations, pledging our support of the Human Rights Campaign s Business Coalition for the Equality Act, enhancement of charitable giving guidelines to prohibit philanthropic support of organizations with an explicit policy of sexual orientation and gender identity discrimination, having a supplier diversity program that includes the outreach to LGBTQ+ owned businesses, and the establishment of the PRIDE Alliance business resource group. 7 Learning and Development: We strive to foster an environment of growth for our people and support our culture of continuous learning. We support and challenge our employees to increase their knowledge, skills, and capabilities through all phases of their career. Our Employee Development programs offer foundational instruction on Company culture and provide employees additional learning opportunities throughout their careers. This is reflected in annual reviews, which allows management and employees to partner and determine specific opportunities for growth within each role through important work, new experiences generated through a dynamic environment, regular feedback, and purposeful development opportunities. Building a career at our Company is fundamental to who we are and is evidenced by our Executive Leadership Team, where 6 of 7 members were promoted from within. For additional information, see Information about Executive Officers. In addition, we are committed to providing the tools and resources our employees need to learn, develop, and grow with us, including virtual sessions. A suite of online training and education programs are available to our employees, ranging from role-specific training to education on soft skills and our Company culture. Through these tools and resources, in 2022, we have coordinated more than 20,000 hours of professional development training for our employees. Our best-in-class Discovering the Art of Leadership series, developed in collaboration with Case Western Reserve University, teaches our people managers how to effectively lead teams and develop employees. We dedicate time to developing and coaching our people managers to provide support to our employees holistically. This means promoting resonant leadership and the practice of emotional intelligence and mindfulness, so our people managers have the knowledge and tools to support the unique needs of each employee. Compensation and Benefits: We believe compensating our employees at market competitive rates and with performance-based awards supports the overall well-being of our employees. Our Total Rewards program offers competitive, comprehensive benefits to meet the unique needs of each employee at each life stage, including insurance coverage options for domestic partners in addition to married couples. The rewards program also addresses the holistic