Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 10 Item 2. Properties 10 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 10 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 10 PART II Item 5. Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 11 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 12 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 13 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 23 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 26 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 63 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 63 Item 9B. Other Information 64 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger 65 Item 11. Executive Compensation 65 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 65 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 65 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 65 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 66 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 69 Signatures 70 Certifications 2 PART I Item 1. Business. All references in this report to Registrant, Company, Schlumberger, we or our are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Cura ao) and its consolidated subsidiaries. Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world s leading provider of technology for reservoir characterization, drilling, production and processing to the oil and gas industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, today Schlumberger supplies the industry s most comprehensive range of products and services, from exploration through production, and integrated pore-to-pipeline solutions that optimize hydrocarbon recovery to deliver reservoir performance sustainably. As of December 31, 2019, the Company employed approximately 105,000 people representing over 170 nationalities. Schlumberger, which generates revenue in more than 120 countries, has executive offices in Paris, Houston, London and The Hague. Schlumberger operates in each of the major oilfield service markets through four segments: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling, Production and Cameron. Each segment consists of a number of technology-based service and product lines, or Technologies. These Technologies cover the entire life cycle of the reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger holds leading positions. The role of the Technologies is to support Schlumberger in providing the best possible service to customers and to ensure that Schlumberger remains at the forefront of technology development and services integration. The Technologies are collectively responsible for driving performance throughout their businesses overseeing operational processes, resource allocation and personnel and delivering superior financial results. The segments are as follows: Reservoir Characterization Consists of the principal Technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon resources. These include WesternGeco , Wireline, Testing Services, Software Integrated Solutions ( SIS ), OneSurface and Integrated Services Management ( ISM ). WesternGeco is a leading geophysical services supplier, providing comprehensive worldwide reservoir interpretation and data processing services. It provides a highly efficient and scientifically advanced imaging platform to its customers. Through access to the industry s global marine fleet, it provides accurate measurements and images of subsurface geology and rock properties for multiclient surveys. WesternGeco offers the industry s most extensive multiclient library. Wireline provides the information necessary to evaluate subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to monitor and evaluate well production. Wireline offers both openhole and cased-hole services including wireline perforating. Slickline services provide downhole mechanical well intervention. Testing Services provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. Testing has a network of laboratories that conduct rock and fluid characterization. Testing also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services. Software Integrated Solutions sells proprietary software and provides consulting, information management and IT infrastructure services to customers in the oil and gas industry. SIS also offers expert consulting services for reservoir characterization, field development planning and production enhancement, as well as industry-leading petrotechnical data services and training solutions. OneSurface provides a unique, reservoir driven, fit for purpose integrated production system for accelerating first oil and gas production and maximizing project economics. Integrated Services Management provides coordination and management of Schlumberger services, products and third parties in projects around the world. ISM offers a certified integrated services project manager as a focal point of contact between the project owner and the various Schlumberger services, ensuring alignment of project objectives. Drilling Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil and gas wells and comprises Bits Drilling Tools, M-I SWACO, Drilling Measurements, Land Rigs and Integrated Drilling Services ( IDS ). Bits Drilling Tools designs, manufactures and markets roller cone and fixed cutter drill bits for all environments. The drill bits include designs for premium market segments where faster penetration rates and increased footage provide significant economic benefits in lowering overall well costs. Drilling Tools includes a wide variety of bottom-hole-assembly and borehole-enlargement technologies for oil and gas drilling operations. 3 M-I SWACO is a supplier of drilling fluid systems engineered to improve drilling performance by anticipating fluids-related problems fluid systems and specialty equipment designed to optimize wellbore productivity and production technology solutions formulated to maximize production rates. M-I SWACO also provides engineered managed pressure drilling and underbalanced drilling solutions, as well as environmental services and products to safely manage waste volumes generated in both drilling and production operations. Drilling Measurements provides mud logging services for geological and drilling surveillance, directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services for all well profiles as well as engineering support. Land Rigs provides land drilling rigs and related support services. The land drilling system of the future represents an integrated drilling platform bringing together digitally enabled surface and downhole hardware combined with a common optimization software to create a step-change in operational efficiency. Integrated Drilling Services supplies all of the services necessary to construct or change the architecture (re-entry) of wells. IDS covers all aspects of well planning, well drilling, engineering, supervision, logistics, procurement and contracting of third parties, and drilling rig management. Production Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes Well Services, OneStim , Completions, Artificial Lift, and Asset Performance Solutions ( APS ). Well Services provides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production throughout the life of a well. Such services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation, and coiled tubing equipment for downhole mechanical well intervention, reservoir monitoring and downhole data acquisition. OneStim provides a low cost-to-serve and highly competitive service delivery platform in North America s unconventional plays. The services include hydraulic fracturing, multistage completions, perforating, and a vertically integrated product and logistics organization. Completions supplies well completion services and equipment that include packers, safety valves and sand control technology as well as a range of intelligent well completions technology and equipment. Artificial Lift provides production equipment and optimization services using electrical submersible pumps, gas lift equipment, rod lift systems, progressing cavity pumps and surface horizontal pumping systems. Asset Performance Solutions (formerly Schlumberger Production Management) is a business model for field production projects. This model combines the required services and products of the Technologies with drilling rig management, specialized engineering and project management expertise to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. APS creates alignment between Schlumberger and the asset holder and/or the operator whereby Schlumberger receives remuneration in line with its value creation. These projects are generally focused on developing and co-managing production of customer assets under long-term agreements. Schlumberger invests its own services and products, and historically, cash in certain cases, into the field development activities and operations. Although in certain arrangements Schlumberger is paid for a portion of the services or products it provides, generally Schlumberger will not be paid at the time of providing its services or upon delivery of its products. Instead, Schlumberger is generally compensated based upon cash flow generated or on a fee-per-barrel basis. This includes certain arrangements whereby Schlumberger is only compensated based upon incremental production that it helps deliver above a mutually agreed baseline. APS represented less than 5% of Schlumberger s consolidated revenue during each of 2019, 2018 and 2017. Cameron Consists of the principal Technologies involved in pressure and flow control for drilling and intervention rigs, oil and gas wells and production facilities, and includes OneSubsea , Surface Systems, Drilling Systems, and Valves Process Systems. OneSubsea provides integrated solutions, products, systems and services for the subsea oil and gas market, including integrated subsea production systems involving wellheads, subsea trees, manifolds and flowline connectors, control systems, connectors and services designed to maximize reservoir recovery and extend the life of each field. OneSubsea offers integration and optimization of the entire production system over the life of the field by leveraging flow control expertise and process technologies with petrotechnical expertise and reservoir and production technologies. Surface Systems designs and manufactures onshore and offshore platform wellhead systems and processing solutions, including valves, chokes, actuators and Christmas trees, and provides services to oil and gas operators. 4 Drilling Systems provides drilling equipment and services to shipyards, drilling contractors, exploration and production companies and rental tool companies. The products fall into two broad categories: pressure control equipment and rotary drilling equipment. These products are designed for either onshore or offshore applications and include drilling equipment packages, blowout preventers ( BOPs ), BOP control systems, connectors, riser systems, valves and choke manifold systems, top drives, mud pumps, pipe handling equipment, rig designs and rig kits. Valves Process Systems serves portions of the upstream, midstream and downstream markets and provides valve products that are primarily used to control and direct the flow of oil and gas as they are moved from wellheads through flow lines, gathering lines and transmission systems to refineries, petrochemical plants and industrial centers for processing. Valves Process Systems also provides efficient monetization of subsurface assets using standard and custom-designed onshore, offshore and downstream processing and treatment systems. Supporting the Technologies is a global network of research and engineering centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner. A network of GeoMarket* regions, within each of four major geographic areas of North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East Asia, provides logistical, technical and commercial coordination. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and brings together geographically focused teams to meet local needs and deliver customized solutions. The GeoMarkets are responsible for providing the most efficient and cost-effective support possible to the operations. Schlumberger primarily uses its own personnel to market its offerings. The customer base, business risks and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services and products. Manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers are shared, and the labor force, within certain limitations, is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which vary geographically with respect to the different services and products offered. While Schlumberger has numerous competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes it is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well production testing, exploration and production software, rig equipment, surface equipment, artificial lift, hydraulic fracturing, cementing, coiled-tubing services, drilling and completion fluids, solids control and waste management, drilling pressure control, drill bits, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling, directional-drilling services, and surface data (mud) logging. * Mark of Schlumberger GENERAL Intellectual Property Schlumberger owns and controls a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to patents, proprietary information and software tools and applications that, in the aggregate, are material to Schlumberger s business. While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is material to Schlumberger s business. Seasonality Seasonal changes in weather and significant weather events can temporarily affect the delivery of oilfield services. For example, the spring thaw in Canada and consequent road restrictions can affect activity levels, while the winter months in the North Sea, Russia and China can produce severe weather conditions that can temporarily reduce levels of activity. In addition, hurricanes and typhoons can disrupt coastal and offshore operations. Furthermore, customer spending patterns for multiclient data, software and other oilfield services and products may result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of each year as clients seek to fully utilize their annual budgets. Conversely, customer budget constraints may lead to lower demand for our services and products in the fourth quarter of each year. Customers and Backlog of Orders For the year ended December 31, 2019, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than the OneSubsea, Drilling Systems and WesternGeco businesses, Schlumberger has no significant backlog due to the nature of its businesses. The combined backlog of these businesses was $3.0 billion at December 31, 2019 (of which approximately 50% is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2020) and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2018. 5 Information A bout Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth, as of January 21, 2020 , the names and ages of the executive officers of Schlumberger, including all offices and positions held by each for the past five years. Name Age Current Position and Five-Year Business Experience Olivier Le Peuch 56 Chief Executive Officer and Director, since August 2019 Chief Operating Officer, February 2019 to July 2019 Executive Vice President, Reservoir and Infrastructure, May 2018 to February 2019 President, Cameron Group, February 2017 to May 2018 and President, Completions, October 2014 to January 2017. Simon Ayat 65 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, since March 2007. Alexander C. Juden 59 Secretary and General Counsel, since April 2009. Khaled Al Mogharbel 49 Executive Vice President, Operations, since April 2019 Executive Vice President, Eastern Hemisphere, February 2019 to March 2019 President, Eastern Hemisphere, May 2017 to January 2019 and President, Drilling Group, July 2013 to April 2017. Ashok Belani 61 Executive Vice President, Technology, since January 2011. Hinda Gharbi 49 Executive Vice President, Reservoir and Infrastructure, since February 2019 Vice President, Human Resources, May 2018 to January 2019 President, Reservoir Characterization Group, June 2017 to May 2018 and President, Wireline, June 2013 to May 2017. Abdellah Merad 46 Executive Vice President, Performance Management, since May 2019 President NAL Production Group, May 2018 to April 2019, President, Production Group, October 2017 to May 2018 Vice President, Controller, Operations, December 2016 to September 2017 and Vice President, Global Shared Services Organization, November 2013 to December 2016. Jean-Francois Poupeau 58 Executive Vice President, Corporate Engagement, since May 2017 and Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Communications, June 2012 to April 2017. Patrick Schorn 51 Executive Vice President, Wells, since May 2018 Executive Vice President, New Ventures, May 2017 to May 2018 President, Operations, August 2015 to May 2017 and President, Operations Integration, July 2013 to July 2015. Donald Ross 50 President, North America Land, since September 2019 President, NAL Production, May 2019 to September 2019 GeoMarket Manager, North America Offshore, August 2016 to May 2019 and Human Resources Manager, Reservoir Characterization Group, July 2013 to July 2016. Rajeev Sonthalia 51 President, Integrated Performance Management, since October 2019 Vice President, Marketing, Wells, May 2018 to September 2019 Vice President, Eastern Hemisphere, Reservoir Characterization Group, October 2017 to April 2018 President, Integrated Drilling Services, July 2015 to September 2017 President, Integrated Project Management and Schlumberger Production Management, July 2014 to June 2015. Stephane Biguet 51 Vice President, Finance, since December 2017 Vice President and Treasurer, December 2016 to November 2017 Vice President, Controller, Operations, November 2013 to December 2016. Pierre Chereque 65 Vice President and Director of Taxes, since June 2017 and Director of Taxes, Operations, July 2004 to May 2017. Simon Farrant 55 Vice President, Investor Relations, since February 2014. Kevin Fyfe 46 Vice President and Controller, since October 2017 Controller, Cameron Group, April 2016 to October 2017 and Vice President, Finance, OneSubsea, July 2013 to March 2016. Howard Guild 48 Chief Accounting Officer, since July 2005. 6 Claudia Jaramillo 47 Vice President and Treasurer, since December 2017 ERM and Treasury Projects Manager, July 2017 to November 2017 and Controller, North America Area, July 2014 to July 2017. Vijay Kasibhatla 56 Director, Mergers and Acquisitions, since January 2013. Saul R. Laureles 54 Director, Corporate Legal Affairs, since July 2014 and Assistant Secretary, since April 2007. Gavin Rennick 45 Vice President, Human Resources, since February 2019 President, Software Integrated Solutions, January 2017 to February 2019 M A/Integration Manager, Cameron International, September 2015 to January 2017 and Vice President, Drilling Products and Bottom-Hole-Assembly Integration, January 2014 to August 2015. Available Information The Schlumberger website is www.slb.com . Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website, www.slb.com/ir , as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge through its Investor Relations website at www.slb.com/ir, access to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . Copies are also available, without charge, from Schlumberger Investor Relations, 5599 San Felipe, 17 th Floor, Houston, Texas 77056. Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.