Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 15 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 15 PART II Item 5. Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6. [Reserved] 16 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 29 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B. Other Information 68 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 74 Signatures 75 Certifications 2 PART I Item 1. Business. All references in this report to Registrant, Company, Schlumberger, we or our are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V.) and its consolidated subsidiaries. Schlumberger is a technology company that partners with customers to access energy by providing leading digital solutions and deploying innovative technologies to enable performance and sustainability for the global energy industry. Schlumberger collaborates to create technology that unlocks access to energy for the benefit of all. Schlumberger is organized under four Divisions operating in five distinct Basins that are aligned with critical hubs of activity. These Divisions combine and integrate Schlumberger s technologies, enhancing our ability to support the emerging long-term growth opportunities in each of these market segments. The four Divisions are: Digital Integration Reservoir Performance Well Construction Production Systems Digital Integration Combines Schlumberger s digital workflow solutions and seismic data interpretation and management businesses with its integrated offering of Asset Performance Solutions ( APS ). Through digital solutions and technologies, supported by the future of software, digital, infrastructure, connected assets, and data, this Division enhances efficiency to improve asset and enterprise-wide performance for customers. APS helps develop or redevelop fields while increasing production, improving cash flow, and extending recovery for customers by providing fit-for-purpose solutions. The primary offerings comprising this Division are: Digital solutions: Includes proprietary software, an expanding digital ecosystem, consulting services, information management and IT infrastructure services to customers in the energy industry. Offers expert consulting services for reservoir characterization, field development planning and production enhancement, as well as industry-leading petrotechnical data services and training solutions. Multiclient seismic surveys and data processing: WesternGeco is a leading geophysical services supplier, providing comprehensive worldwide reservoir interpretation and data processing services. It provides a highly efficient and scientifically advanced imaging platform and innovative and accurate subsurface imagery for multiclient surveys, also referred to as exploration data. WesternGeco offers one of the industry s most extensive multiclient libraries. Asset Performance Solutions: APS offers an integrated business model for field production projects. This model combines Schlumberger s services and products with drilling rig management and specialized engineering and project management expertise, to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. APS creates alignment between Schlumberger and the asset holder and/or the operator utilizing a commercial model whereby Schlumberger receives remuneration in line with the value it creates. These projects are generally focused on developing and co-managing production of customer assets under long-term agreements. Schlumberger invests its services and products into the field development activities and operations and is compensated on a fee-per-barrel basis or based on cash flow generated. This includes certain arrangements whereby Schlumberger is only compensated based on incremental production that it helps deliver above a mutually agreed baseline. As of December 31, 2021, Schlumberger s APS portfolio primarily consisted of three field production projects in Ecuador and one in Canada. Reservoir Performance Consists of reservoir-centric technologies and services that are critical to optimizing reservoir productivity and performance. Reservoir Performance develops and deploys innovative technologies and services to evaluate, intervene, and stimulate reservoirs that help customers understand subsurface assets and maximize their value. 3 The primary offerings comprising this Division are: Wireline: Provides the information necessary to evaluate subsurface geology and fluids to plan and monitor well construction and to monitor and evaluate well production. Offers both openhole and cased-hole services, including wireline logging and perforating. Testing: Provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. Testing has a network of laboratories that facilitate formation and fluid characterization. Stimulation and Intervention : Provides services used during well completions, as well as those used to maintain optimal production throughout the life of a well. Includes pressure pumping, well stimulation, and coiled tubing equipment for downhole mechanical well intervention, reservoir monitoring, and downhole data acquisition. On December 31, 2020, Schlumberger contributed its onshore hydraulic fracturing business in the United States and Canada ( OneStim ), including its pressure pumping, pumpdown perforating, and Permian frac sand businesses, to Liberty Oilfield Services Inc. ( Liberty ), in exchange for a 37% equity interest in Liberty. OneStim s historical results were reported as part of the Reservoir Performance Division through the closing of the transaction. As of December 31, 2021, Schlumberger had a 31% equity interest in Liberty. Well Construction Combines the full portfolio of products and services to optimize well placement and performance, maximize drilling efficiency, and improve wellbore assurance. Well Construction provides operators and drilling rig manufacturers with services and products related to designing and constructing a well. The primary offerings comprising this Division are: Drilling Measurements: Provides mud logging services for geological and drilling surveillance, directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services for all well profiles as well as engineering support. Drilling Fluids: Supplies individually engineered drilling fluid systems that improve drilling performance and maintain well control and wellbore stability throughout the drilling operation. Drill Bits: Designs, manufactures and markets roller cone and fixed cutter drill bits for all drilling environments. Drilling Tools : Includes a wide variety of bottom-hole-assembly and borehole enlargement technologies for drilling operations. Well Cementing : Provides products and services that secure and protect well casings while isolating fluid zones and maximizing wellbore activity. Integrated Well Construction: Provides integrated solutions to construct or change the architecture (re-entry) of wells, including well planning, well drilling, engineering, supervision, logistics, procurement and contracting of third parties, and drilling rig management. Rigs and Equipment : Provides drilling equipment and services for shipyards, drilling contractors, energy companies and rental tool companies, as well as land drilling rigs and related services. Drilling equipment falls into two broad categories: pressure control equipment and rotary drilling equipment. These products are designed for either onshore or offshore applications and include drilling equipment packages, blowout preventers, blowout preventer control systems, connectors, riser systems, valves and choke manifold systems, top drives, mud pumps, pipe handling equipment, rig designs and rig kits. Production Systems Develops technologies and provides expertise that enhance production and recovery from subsurface reservoirs to the surface, into pipelines, and to refineries. Production Systems provides a comprehensive portfolio of equipment and services including subsurface production systems, subsea and surface equipment and services, and midstream production systems. The primary offerings comprising this Division are: Artificial Lift: Provides production equipment and optimization services using electrical submersible pumps, gas lift equipment, progressing cavity pumps and surface horizontal pumping systems. Completions Equipment: Supplies well completion services and equipment that include packers, safety valves and sand control technology, as well as a range of intelligent well completions technology and equipment. OneSubsea : Provides integrated solutions, products, systems and services for the subsea market, including integrated subsea production systems involving wellheads, subsea trees, manifolds and flowline connectors, control systems, connectors and services designed to maximize reservoir recovery and extend the life of each field. Surface: Designs and manufactures onshore and offshore platform wellhead systems and processing solutions, including valves, chokes, actuators and surface trees, and provides services to operators. 4 Valves: Serves portions of the upstream, midstream and downstream markets and provides valve products that are primarily used to control and direct the flow of hydrocarbons as they are moved from wellheads through flow lines, gathering lines and transmission systems to refineries, petrochemical plants and industrial centers for processing. Processing: Enables efficient monetization of subsurface assets using standard and custom-designed onshore, offshore and downstream processing and treatment systems, as well as unique, reservoir-driven, fit-for-purpose integrated production systems for accelerating first production and maximizing project economics. Supporting the Divisions is a global network of research and engineering centers. Through these centers Schlumberger advances its technology programs to safely and sustainably enhance industry efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value. The Divisions are deployed around a geographical structure within five Basins: Americas Land, Offshore Atlantic, Middle East North Africa, Asia, and Russia Central Asia. The Basins are configured around common regional characteristics to deploy fit-for-purpose technologies, operating models and skills and are focused on agility, responsiveness and competitiveness. The Basins are comprised of GeoUnits, which can be a single country or made up of several countries. With a strong focus on the customers, Basins identify opportunities for local growth. Corporate Strategy Schlumberger s strategy is designed to adapt the Company to an evolving industry landscape shaped by emerging drivers, including capital discipline, regionalization of supply and demand, an efficiency imperative, and resilience defined by sustainability and lower carbon footprint. This strategy is designed to magnify Schlumberger s ability to improve customer performance, which is the differentiating factor that will help our industry meet higher stakeholder expectations. Oil and gas will remain critical to economic activity and prosperity. According to the most recent International Energy Agency Sustainable Development Scenario, oil and gas are expected to represent approximately 45% of the global energy mix through 2040. Schlumberger s role is twofold: to enable customers to produce these resources efficiently, cost effectively and with the lowest carbon footprint and to support the world s transition to a more diversified energy mix. Schlumberger s strategy is structured around three major themes, all of which are focused on customer performance: (i) strengthen the core (ii) go-to-market and (iii) horizons of growth. Strengthen the Core The core of Schlumberger is how we work with customers and execute our business. The elements in this theme which include customer collaboration, the integrity and efficiency of our operations, and capital stewardship are enabled by our people and technology. As a service company, Schlumberger has always worked closely with customers. We are exploring new ways to collaborate and help them overcome their challenges and improve performance. Operations integrity and efficiency core to Schlumberger s culture are enhanced by the digitization of our operations. Just as Schlumberger is delivering digital solutions to our customers, we are advancing them in our own operations to capture value from our equipment and services businesses by integrating them into our digital structure. Capital stewardship is a crucial factor for our industry. Schlumberger has implemented a capital allocation framework that governs all investments, whether related to capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions, or research and engineering. The underlying principle behind this framework is that investment opportunities are prioritized based on returns and cash flow. Our focus on capital stewardship also includes evolving certain businesses into innovative, less capital-intensive commercial models. Go-to-Market Industry markets have evolved into multiple, diverse regional markets that are increasingly competing with each other to meet global, regional, and domestic oil and gas demand. Each of these regions has a set of resource plays or basins with localized economics and operational drivers. As a result, the industry is witnessing a decoupling of the activity characteristics of each major region, resulting in a unique set of dynamics for each oil and gas basin across the world. This presents Schlumberger with opportunities that can be optimally addressed with a basin-specific approach. 5 A key differentiator for Schlumberger is its fit-for-basin approach and ability. Fit-for-basin describes the mindset Schlumberger has adopted toward technology development, in-country value, and market access. Schlumberger is developing and deploying basin-specific technology that helps its customers overcome the challenges of their respective regions. At the same time, in-country value enables regional efficiency and performance, while creating opportunity and aligning with the strategic priorities of our clients. In addition, technology access and performance models are highly strategic elements of our go-to-market strategy. Technology access is fundamentally about making the right decisions with respect to our technology portfolio and how we go to market. Performance models are focused on commercial and contractual innovations. The elements of our go-to-market strategy enable Schlumberger to develop deeper partnerships with customers, expanding on their needs and challenges from a basin-specific perspective to provide technology and business models tailored to regional or individual customer requirements. These elements allow us to share in the performance improvement we deliver for customers and partners. Horizons of Growth The third strategic element positions Schlumberger to increase its share in existing markets and expand into new long-term markets in digital, production and recovery, and energy transition, including Schlumberger New Energy and Transition Technologies. Digital capabilities are crucial to long-term performance and resilience. Through its industry-leading digital platform, Schlumberger will enable digital transformation at scale, unlocking significant value, and leading innovation across the digital domain in the industry. Schlumberger seeks to define the future of digital technology in the energy industry and has designed and built a secure and flexible digital industry platform centered around differentiated digital technologies. Enabled by key partnerships with companies such as Google, IBM, Microsoft, Amazon Web Services, AVEVA and NOV, Schlumberger provides an open digital platform that takes advantage of on-demand, high-performance computing and makes digital capabilities such as embedded artificial intelligence or machine learning readily accessible to customers. The application of digital technology across the entire E P value chain from subsurface to drilling to production has the potential to deliver a step-change in operational workflows that will significantly elevate our customers performance sustainably. Digital technology can move technical workflows from the desktop to the cloud, creating data structures that enable artificial intelligence and machine learning to provide insights at scale across our customers operations. Production and recovery is about positioning Schlumberger to take advantage of two key trends shaping the market. The first trend relates to accelerating gas discovery, development and production, as Schlumberger expects to see significant growth in gas demand over the next two decades as the world seeks to decarbonize its energy mix. The second trend relates to operators increased focus on improving recovery from their existing wells, fields and infrastructure ultimately achieving the most capital efficient production. As a result and based on our deep domain knowledge from the subsurface to midstream production facilities, we are positioning our technology portfolio to participate and lead in these growing markets. Finally, Schlumberger recognizes that its future will expand beyond oil and gas with energy transition, and the Company is positioning itself for long-term growth opportunities. In this regard, in 2020 the Company created Schlumberger New Energy to develop businesses in low-carbon or carbon-neutral energy technologies, and in 2021 it announced its commitment to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 and launched its Transition Technologies portfolio to reduce emissions from oil and gas operations. Schlumberger New Energy is using partnership models and Schlumberger s experience in technology industrialization to expand into energy verticals beyond oil and gas. Schlumberger s approach is to apply its domain expertise in areas adjacent to its existing activities where it can use its global footprint and execution platform to deliver at scale. The Schlumberger New Energy portfolio consists of ventures in the domains of hydrogen, lithium, energy storage, carbon capture and sequestration ( CCS ), geothermal power and geoenergy for heating and cooling buildings. While many of these investments are in new energy emerging sectors, Schlumberger New Energy has leveraged Schlumberger s extensive experience in both the CCS and geothermal sectors. For more than two decades, Schlumberger has participated in CCS projects providing consulting, technology services and project management. In geothermal, Schlumberger provides the full spectrum of geothermal resource development services through GeothermEx, a consulting and services company we acquired in 2010. Schlumberger New Energy has extended Schlumberger s geothermal reach by exploring opportunities in the development of geothermal power projects. 6 Schlumberger New Energy activities currently include the following ventures and strategic partnerships: Celsius Energy is a Schlumberger start-up that combines in-house technology, proprietary design optimization and modern digital control systems to offer a fit-for-purpose solution that uses low-heat geothermal energy for heating and cooling buildings. Celsius Energy reduces overall building energy consumption from conventional sources, resulting in reduced carbon emissions. Genvia is a clean hydrogen production technology venture with the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission and partners. This unique private-public partnership aims to deliver the most efficient and cost-effective technology for producing clean hydrogen, a versatile energy carrier and key component of the energy transition. NeoLith Energy is a Schlumberger New Energy venture to enable a sustainable, efficient and flexible lithium production ecosystem using a differentiated direct lithium extraction process. NeoLith Energy has a strategic collaboration agreement with Panasonic Energy of North America for the validation and optimization of its pilot plant in Nevada. In CCS, Schlumberger New Energy is developing capabilities and forging partnerships to provide integrated solutions and technologies to CCS projects in selected markets and geographies where existing policies and regulations can make projects attractive. Schlumberger New Energy has partnered with Chevron, Microsoft and Clean Energy Systems to utilize biomass fuel that consumes CO 2 over its lifetime to produce power and then safely and permanently sequestrates the produced CO 2 . This process results in net-negative carbon emissions, effectively removing greenhouse gas from the atmosphere. Schlumberger invested in EnerVenue and entered into a collaboration agreement to deploy EnerVenue s uniquely differentiated nickel-hydrogen battery technology, which is a key enabler of stationary energy storage solutions. Schlumberger New Energy and EnerVenue will work together to progress large-scale deployment of nickel-hydrogen battery technology across selected global markets. In June 2021, Schlumberger announced its commitment to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions by 2050. Guided by climate science and GHG Protocol, Schlumberger spent 18 months conducting extensive analysis and working with experts to produce its decarbonization plan, which is aligned with the Paris Agreement ambition of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Schlumberger was the first energy services company to set a net-zero target inclusive of all three emission scopes. By setting targets with respect to the Company s total 2019 baseline GHG footprint of approximately 54 million metric tons of CO 2 equivalent (which consisted of 52 million metric tons of Scope 3 emissions and two million metric tons of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions), and not just its Scope 1 and 2 footprint, Schlumberger s comprehensive emissions reduction roadmap addresses the entire oil and gas value chain. Schlumberger s 2050 net zero target is supported by the following interim milestones, using 2019 as the baseline year: by 2025, a 30% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2030, a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and by 2030, a 30% reduction in Scope 3 emissions. There are three key components to Schlumberger achieving its net-zero target: reducing operational emissions, reducing customer emissions that occur while using Schlumberger technology, and taking carbon-negative actions of sufficient scale to offset any residual operational and technology emissions that the Company may have in 2050. Schlumberger s Scope 1 and 2 emissions primarily come from its fuel use and electricity consumption, whereas its Scope 3 emissions are indirect, such as customer emissions related to the use of Schlumberger technology and operational emissions related to purchased goods and services. In 2021, Schlumberger launched its Transition Technologies portfolio. This portfolio is focused on addressing fugitive emissions, flaring reduction, electrification, well construction emissions, and full field development solutions. Comprised of proprietary technologies and solutions, the Transition Technologies portfolio will help reduce direct and indirect emissions along with other environmental attributes, while simultaneously driving efficiency, reliability and performance for our customers. 7 Human Capital At December 31, 2021, Schlumberger s workforce consisted of approximately 92,000 people representing more than 160 nationalities. Schlumberger believes that the diversity of its workforce is one of its greatest strengths and its ambition is to maintain a workforce nationality mix that is aligned to its geographical revenue mix. Schlumberger recognizes that its ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain a highly competent and diverse workforce has been key to its success for many decades. As a global company focused on creating and optimizing value for its customers, Schlumberger believes it is critical for its people to communicate with customers in their native languages and to share the values of the people in the countries where it works. Furthermore, Schlumberger s diverse workforce positions the Company to effectively deliver services and products that meet the unique expectations and requirements of, its stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and shareholders. Schlumberger s long-standing commitment to national and cultural diversity fosters a culture that is global in outlook, yet local in practice, which permeates every layer of the Company. In addition to national and cultural diversity, gender balance is another important pillar of our diversity and inclusion strategy. Schlumberger is committed to lead our industry in gender diversity. Schlumberger has made significant progress towards achieving its gender balance goal of having women comprise 25% of the Company s salaried workforce by 2025. In this regard, in 2021, Schlumberger set its next goal which is for women to comprise 30% of the Company s salaried workforce by 2030. As of December 31, 2021, women made up approximately 23% of the Company s salaried workforce. Additionally, approximately 22% of management roles were held by women in 2021 and women represented approximately 48% of our 2021 new hires of salaried employees with science, technology, engineering and mathematics backgrounds. Schlumberger is proud to provide a career platform that enables a culture of lifelong learning for all employees. Schlumberger is committed to offering borderless careers and making career decisions based on merit. Schlumberger s borderless careers philosophy is powered by its internal mobility practices, which offer employees multiple, flexible, career paths to help them acquire the required skills to reach their ambition. We seek to provide continuous growth opportunities through a combination of training and experience. Schlumberger strives to identify talent early and to provide opportunities for those employees who demonstrate exceptional performance and potential to progress to higher levels within the organization. These opportunities accelerate career development while fostering an agile workforce and the next generation of business leaders. 8 Competition The principal methods of competition within the energy services industry are technological innovation, quality of service and price differentiation. These factors vary geographically and are dependent upon the different services and products that Schlumberger offers. Schlumberger has numerous competitors, both large and small. Intellectual Property Schlumberger owns and controls a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to patents, proprietary information, trade secrets and software tools and applications that, in the aggregate, are material to Schlumberger s business. While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is material to Schlumberger s business. Seasonality Seasonal changes in weather and significant weather events can temporarily affect the delivery of Schlumberger s products and services. For example, the spring thaw in Canada and consequent road restrictions can affect activity levels, while the winter months in the North Sea, Russia and China can produce severe weather conditions that can temporarily reduce levels of activity. In addition, hurricanes and typhoons can disrupt coastal and offshore operations. Furthermore, customer spending patterns for multiclient data, software and other products may result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of the year as clients seek to fully utilize their annual budgets. Conversely, customer budget constraints in North America may lead to lower demand for our services and products in the fourth quarter of the year. Customers Schlumberger s primary customers are national oil companies, large integrated oil companies and independent operators. No single customer exceeded 10% of Schlumberger s consolidated revenue during each of 2021, 2020 and 2019. Governmental Regulations Schlumberger is subject to numerous environmental and other governmental and regulatory requirements related to its operations worldwide. For additional details, see Item 1(a). Risk Factors Legal and Regulatory Risks , which is incorporated by reference in this Item 1. Corporate Information Schlumberger was founded in 1926. The Company is incorporated under the laws of Cura ao and has executive offices in Paris, Houston, London and The Hague. Available Information The Schlumberger website is www.slb.com . Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website, www.slb.com/ir , as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge through its Investor Relations website at www.slb.com/ir, access to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K