Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 100 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 100 Item 9B. Other Information 101 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 102 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 102 Item 11. Executive Compensation 111 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 134 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 135 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 139 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 139 Signatures 145 Unless the context requires otherwise, the words Super Micro, Supermicro, we, Company, us and our in this document refer to Super Micro Computer, Inc. and where appropriate, our wholly owned subsidiaries. Supermicro, the Company logo and our other registered or common law trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Super Micro Computer, Inc. or its affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology including would, could, may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risks described below, under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , and in other parts of this Form 10-K as well as in our other filings with the SEC. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this Annual Report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. We cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. Business Our Company We are a Silicon Valley-based provider of accelerated compute platforms that are application-optimized high-performance and high-efficiency server and storage systems for various markets, including enterprise data centers, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, 5G and edge computing. Our solutions, which we refer to as Total IT Solutions, include complete servers, storage systems, modular blade servers, blades, workstations, complete rack scale plug and play solutions delivering pre-defined and pre-tested full rack scale solutions, networking devices, server sub-systems, system management and security software. We also provide global support and services to help our customers install, upgrade and maintain their computing infrastructure. We offer our customers a high degree of flexibility and customization by providing a broad array of server models and configurations from which they can choose the best solutions to fit their computing needs. Our server and storage systems, sub-systems and accessories are architecturally designed to provide high levels of reliability, quality, configurability, and scalability. Our in-house design competencies, design control over many of the components used within our server and storage systems, and our Server Building Block Solutions (an innovative, modular and open architecture) enable us to rapidly develop, build and test our compute platforms along with our server and storage systems, sub-systems and accessories with unique configurations. As a result, when new technologies are brought to market, we are generally able to quickly assemble a broad portfolio of solutions by leveraging common building blocks across product lines. We work closely with the leading microprocessor, graphics processing units ( GPU ), memory, disk/flash, and interconnect vendors and other hardware and software suppliers to coordinate our new products' design with their product release schedules. This enhances our ability to introduce new products incorporating the latest technology rapidly. We seek to be the first to market with products incorporating new technologies and to offer the broadest selection of products using those technologies to our customers. To reduce the high cost of operating datacenters, IT managers increasingly turn to suppliers of high-performance products that are also cost-effective, energy-efficient, and green. Our resource saving architecture supports our efforts to lead in green IT innovation. This architecture disaggregates CPU and memory, which enables each resource to be refreshed independently, thereby allowing data centers to significantly reduce both refresh cycle costs and e-waste. In addition, we offer product lines that are designed to share common computing resources, thereby saving both valuable space and power as compared to general-purpose rackmount servers. We believe our approach of leveraging an overall architecture that balances data center power requirements, cooling, shared resources and refresh cycles helps the environment and provides total cost of ownership ( TCO ) savings for our customers. SMCI | 2022 Form 10-K | 1 We conduct our operations principally from our Silicon Valley headquarters, Taiwan and Netherlands facilities. Our sales and marketing activities operate through a combination of our direct sales force and indirect sales channel partners. We work with distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") to market and sell our optimized solutions to their end customers in our indirect sales channels. Strategy Our objective is to be the world s leading provider of solutions using accelerated compute platforms that are application-optimized offering high-performance server, storage and networking. Achieving this objective requires continuous development and innovation of our Total IT Solutions with better price-performance and architectural advantages compared with our prior generation of solutions and with solutions offered by our competitors. Through our strategy, we seek to maintain or improve our relative competitive position in many product areas and pursue markets that provide us with additional long-term growth opportunities. Key elements of our strategy include executing upon the following: A Strong Internal Research and Development and Internal Manufacturing Capability We are continually investing in our engineering organization. As of June 30, 2022, we had over 2,000 employees in our research and development organization. These resources, along with our understanding of complex computing and storage requirements, enable us to deliver product innovation featuring advanced functionality and capabilities required by our customers. Also, substantially all of our servers are tested and assembled in our facilities, and more than half of our final server and storage production is completed in San Jose, California. Our engineering aptitude, coupled with our internal manufacturing capability, enables rapid prototyping and product roll-out, contributing to a high level of responsiveness to our customers. Introducing More Innovative Products, Faster We seek to sustain advantages in both time-to-market and breadth of products incorporating the latest technological innovations, such as new processors, advancements in storage and evolving I/O technologies. We seek these advantages by leveraging our in-house design capabilities and our Building Block Solutions architecture. This allows us to offer customers a broad choice of products to match their target application requirements. In November 2021, we announced the Universal GPU server; which enables customers to choose the most suitable CPUs and GPUs, and switch configurations for their specific applications and workloads. In February 2022, we introduced the SuperEdge multi-node Server for 5G, IoT, and edge applications. This 2U, 3-node, short-depth design increases node density by 50% for high-density computing at the intelligent edge. Capitalizing on New Applications and Technologies In addition to serving traditional needs for server and storage systems, we have devoted, and will continue to devote, substantial resources to developing systems that support emerging and growing applications including cloud computing, artificial intelligence, 5G/edge computing, storage and others. We believe there are significant opportunities for us in each of these rapidly developing markets due to stringent design requirements for these applications that often require the use of the latest technologies, allowing us to leverage our capabilities in product innovation, superior time-to-market, and portfolio breadth. Driving Software and Services Sales to our Global Enterprise Customers We seek to grow our global enterprise revenue by bolstering and expanding our software management products and support services. These software products and services are required for large scale deployments, help meet service level agreements and address uptime requirements. In addition to our internal software development efforts, we also integrate and partner with external software vendors to meet customer requirements. Leveraging Our Global Operating Structure We plan to continue to increase our worldwide manufacturing capacity and logistics abilities in the United States, Taiwan and the Netherlands to more efficiently serve our customers and lower our overall manufacturing costs. SMCI | 2022 Form 10-K | 2 Products and Services We offer a broad range of accelerated compute platforms that are application-optimized server solutions, rackmount and blade servers, storage, and subsystems and accessories, which can be used to build complete server and storage systems. These Total IT Solutions and products are designed to serve a variety of markets, such as enterprise data centers, cloud computing, artificial intelligence ( AI ) and 5G/edge computing. The percentage of our net sales represented by sales of server and storage systems increased to 85.9% in fiscal year 2022 compared to 78.4% in fiscal year 2021 and 78.5% in fiscal year 2020, and the percentage of our net sales represented by sales of subsystems and accessories was 14.1% in fiscal year 2022, 21.6% in fiscal year 2021 and 21.5% in fiscal year 2020. During fiscal year 2022, we experienced increased revenue from server and storage systems, particularly from our large enterprise and datacenter customers. The year-over-year decrease in net sales of subsystems and accessories was primarily due to the emphasis of selling full systems and servers which require utilization of the subcomponents. We complement our accelerated compute platforms inclusive of server and storage system offerings with software management/security solutions, global services and support, the revenue for which is included in our server and storage systems revenue. Server and Storage Systems We sell accelerated compute platforms comprised of a combination of server and storage systems in rackmount, blade, multi-node and embedded form factors, which support single, dual, and multiprocessor architectures. Our key product lines include: SuperBlade and MicroBlade system families designed to share common computing resources, thereby saving space and power over standard rackmount servers; SuperStorage systems that provide high-density storage while leveraging an efficient use of power to achieve performance-per-watt savings; Twin family of multi-node server systems designed for density, performance, and power efficiency; Ultra Server systems for demanding enterprise workloads; GPU or Accelerated systems for rapidly growing AI markets; Data Center Optimized server systems that deliver increased scalability and performance-per-watt with an improved thermal architecture; Embedded (5G/IoT/Edge) systems optimized for evolving networks and intelligent management of connected devices; and MicroCloud server systems that deliver node density in environments with space and power constraints. In addition to our accelerated compute platforms business, we offer a large array of modular server subsystems and accessories, such as server boards, chassis, power supplies and other accessories. These subsystems are the foundation of platform solutions and span product offerings from the entry-level single and dual-processor server segment to the high-end multiprocessor market. The majority of the subsystems and accessories we sell individually are designed to work together to improve performance and are ultimately integrated into complete server and storage systems. Server Software Management Solutions Our open industry-standard remote system management solutions, such as our Server Management suite, including Supermicro Server Manager ( SSM ), Supermicro Power Management software ( SPM ), Supermicro Update Manager ( SUM ), SuperCloud Composer and SuperDoctor 5, have been designed to help manage large-scale heterogeneous data center environments. SMCI | 2022 Form 10-K | 3 Supermicro Global Services We provide global service and support offerings for our direct and OEM customers and our indirect sales channel partners directly or through approved distributors and third-party partners. Our services include server and storage system integration, configuration and software upgrades and updates. We also identify service requirements, create and execute project plans, conduct verification testing and training and provide technical documentation. Global Services: Our strategic direct and OEM customers may purchase a variety of on-site support service plans. Our service plans vary depending on specific services, response times, coverage hours and duration, repair priority levels, spare parts requirements, logistics, data privacy and security needs. Our Global Services team provides help desk services and on-site product support for our server and storage systems. Support Services: Our customer support services offer competitive market warranties, generally from one-to-three years, and warranty extension options for products sold by our direct sales team and approved indirect sales channel partners. Our customer support team provides ongoing maintenance and technical support for our products through our website and 24-hour continuous direct phone-based support. Research and Development We perform most of our research and development activities in-house in the United States at our facilities in San Jose, California, and in Taiwan, increasing the communication and collaboration between design teams to streamline the development process and reduce time-to-market. We believe that the combination of our focus on internal research and development activities, our close working relationships with customers and vendors and our modular design approach allows us to decrease time-to-market. We continue to invest in reducing our design and manufacturing costs and improving the performance, cost-effectiveness and power- and space-efficiency of our Total IT Solutions. Our research and development teams focus on the development of new and enhanced products that can support emerging technological and engineering innovations while achieving high overall system performance. Much of our research and development activity relates to the new product cycles of leading processor vendors. We work closely with Intel, Nvidia and AMD, among others, to develop products that are compatible with the latest generation of industry-standard technologies under development. Our collaborative approach with these vendors allows us to coordinate the design of our new products with their product release schedules, thereby enhancing our ability to rapidly introduce new products incorporating the latest technology. We work closely with their respective development teams to enhance system performance and reduce system-level issues. Similarly, we work very closely with our customers to identify their needs and develop our new product plans accordingly. Customers During each of fiscal year 2022 and fiscal year 2021, we sold to over 1,000 direct customers in over 100 countries. During fiscal year 2020, we sold to over 820 direct customers. In addition, over the three years ended June 30, 2022, we have sold to thousands of end users through our indirect sales channel. These customers represent a diverse set of market verticals including enterprise data centers, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, 5G and edge computing markets. In each of fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, no customer represented greater than 10% of our total net sales. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing activities are conducted through a combination of our direct sales force and our indirect sales channel partners. Our direct sales force is primarily focused on selling Total IT Solutions, including management software and global services to large scale cloud, enterprise and OEM customers. In addition, we are planning to offer optimized products with our command-center-based services, starting with a comprehensive product auto-configurator. The command center is the foundation of our expanding B2C and B2B programs. We work with distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, and OEMs to market and sell our optimized solutions to their end customers. We provide sales and marketing assistance and training to our indirect sales channel partners and OEMs, who in turn provide service and support to end customers. We leverage our relationships in our indirect sales channel and with our OEMs to penetrate select industry segments where our products can provide better alternatives to existing solutions. SMCI | 2022 Form 10-K | 4 We maintain close contact with our indirect sales channel partners and end customers. We often collaborate during the sales process with our indirect sales channel partners and the end customer s technical staff to help determine the optimal system configuration for the customer s needs. Our interaction with our indirect sales channel partners and end customers allows us to monitor customer requirements and develop new products to meet their needs. International Sales Our global sales efforts are supported both by our international offices in the Netherlands, Taiwan, South Korea, United Kingdom, China and Japan as well as by our United States based sales team. Product fulfillment and first level support for our international customers are provided by Supermicro Global Services and through our indirect sales channel and OEMs. Sales to customers located outside of the United States represented 41.6%, 40.7% and 41.4% of net sales in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Marketing Our marketing programs are designed to create a global awareness and branding for our company and products, as well as an understanding of the significant value we bring to customers. These programs also inform existing and potential customers, the trade press, market analysts, indirect sales channel partners and OEMs about the strong capabilities and benefits of using our products and solutions. Our marketing efforts support the sale and distribution of our products through both direct sales and indirect channels. We rely on a variety of marketing vehicles, including advertising, public relations, web, social media, participation in industry trade shows and conferences to help gain market acceptance. We provide funds for cooperative marketing to our indirect sales channel partners to extend the reach of our marketing efforts. We also actively utilize our suppliers cooperative marketing programs and jointly benefit from their marketing development funds to which we are entitled. Intellectual Property We seek to protect our intellectual property rights with a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, and disclosure restrictions. We rely primarily on trade secrets, technical know-how, and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our design and product development activities. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, and other third parties and control access to our designs, documentation and other proprietary information. Manufacturing and Quality Control We manufacture the majority of our systems at our San Jose, California headquarters. We believe we are the only major server, storage and accelerated compute platform vendor that designs, develops, and manufactures a significant portion of their systems in the United States. Global assembly, test and quality control of our servers are performed at our manufacturing facilities in San Jose, California, Taiwan and the Netherlands. Each of our facilities Quality and Environmental Management System has been certified according to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and/or ISO 13485 standards. Our suppliers and contract manufacturers are required to support the same standards to maintain consistent product and service quality and continuous improvement of quality and environmental performance. We use several third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers for materials and sub-assemblies. We believe that selectively using outsourced manufacturing services allows us to focus on our core competencies in product design and development and increases our operational flexibility. We believe our manufacturing strategy allows us to adjust manufacturing capacity in response to changes in customer demand and to rapidly introduce new products to the market. We use Ablecom Technology, Inc. ( Ablecom ) and its affiliate Compuware Technology, Inc. ("Compuware"), both of which are related parties, for contract design and manufacturing coordination support. We work with Ablecom to optimize modular designs for our chassis and several other components. Ablecom also coordinates the manufacturing of chassis for us. In addition to providing a large volume of contract manufacturing services to us, Ablecom warehouses multiple components and subassemblies manufactured by various suppliers before shipment to our facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia. We also have a series of agreements with Compuware, including multiple product development, production and service agreements, product manufacturing agreements and lease agreements for office space. See Part II, Item 8, Note 12, Related Party Transactions, to the consolidated financial statements and Part III, Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence. SMCI | 2022 Form 10-K | 5 We monitor our inventory continuously to be able to meet customer delivery requirements and to avoid inventory obsolescence. Due to our building-block designs, our inventory can generally be used with multiple different products, lowering working capital requirements and reducing the risk of inventory write-downs. Competition The market for our products is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to new technological developments, changing customer needs and new product introductions. We compete primarily with large vendors of x86-based general purpose servers and components. In addition, we also compete with smaller vendors that specialize in the sale of server components and systems. In recent years, we have experienced increased competition from original design manufacturers ("ODMs ) that benefit from their scale and very low-cost manufacturing and are increasingly offering their own branded products. We believe our principal competitors include: Global technology vendors, such as Cisco, Dell, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, and Lenovo; ODMs, such as Foxconn, Quanta Computer, and Wiwynn Corporation; and OEMs, such as Inspur. The principal competitive factors in our market include the following: First to market with new emerging technologies; High product performance, efficiency and reliability; Early identification of emerging opportunities; Cost-effectiveness; Interoperability of products; Scalability; and Localized and responsive customer support on a worldwide basis. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to most of these factors. However, most of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater name recognition and deeper market penetration. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can, which could allow them to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer needs. In addition, it is possible that new competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" risk titled The market in which we participate is highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, we may not be able to increase our market penetration, grow our net sales or improve our gross margins. Government Regulation Our worldwide business activities subject us to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws in the countries in which we operate, and our Total IT Solutions are subject to laws and regulations affecting their sale. To date, costs and accruals incurred to comply with these governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, have not been material to our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future governmental laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, applicable to our operations or Total IT Solutions will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position, we do not currently anticipate material increases in expenditures for compliance with government regulations. Human Capital Resources and Management Mission, Culture, and Engagement The key to success in technology is designing a company around people committed to work that they love, said Charles Liang, Supermicro Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. We aim to attract, develop, and retain a high performing and engaged global workforce. As of June 30, 2022, we employed 4,607 full time employees, consisting of 2,089 employees in research and development, 525 employees in sales and marketing, 456 employees in general and administrative and 1,537 employees in manufacturing. Of these employees, 2,222 employees are based in our San Jose facilities. We consider our highly qualified and motivated employees to be a key factor in our business success. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining organization, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. SMCI | 2022 Form 10-K | 6 We are committed to protecting the environment through our We Keep IT Green initiative as a first to market innovator in high-performance, high-efficiency server, storage, networking and management total solutions. We recognize the critical importance of talent and culture to our success and ability to fulfill this vision. We encourage opportunities for growth and conduct regular performance reviews that set clear expectations to motivate employees and align their performance with company objectives. Supermicro Portal, our internal intranet, was created to keep employees informed about key changes to our business and company-wide resources. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging We strive to create a culture that promotes diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging to boost team dynamics, productivity, and innovation within the organization. Employees should be treated fairly and respectfully despite differences and should feel accepted in the workplace to contribute their perspective and be valued. We are committed to increasing diversity in our workforce at all levels and regularly monitor our recruitment process with an aim to improve the diversity of our workforce and candidate pool. Talent Development, Acquisition, Retention and Rewards Talent Strategy Our talent strategy focuses on attracting skilled, engaged employees who contribute the talent and skills critical to our innovative and forward-looking workforce. Our recruiting process actively sources talent supporting our ability to hire candidates with professional qualifications and potential. We identify opportunities through tracking and analy