Item 1 Business 4 Item 1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2 Properties 20 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 52 Item 9B Other Information 54 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 54 Item 11 Executive Compensation 55 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 55 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 55 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 55 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 56 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 58 Signatures 117 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 122 Certifications 123 2 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED PART I Safe Harbor Statements in this document that are not historical facts, including statements that (i) are in the future tense; (ii) include the words expects, plans, targets, estimates, believes, anticipates, or similar words that reference Snap-on Incorporated ( Snap-on or the company ) or its management; (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iv) describe Snap-on s or management s future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Snap-on cautions the reader that any forward-looking statements included in this document that are based upon assumptions and estimates were developed by management in good faith and are subject to risks, uncertainties or other factors that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in any such statement. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results or regarded as a representation by the company or its management that the projected results will be achieved. For those forward-looking statements, Snap-on cautions the reader that numerous important factors, such as those listed below, as well as those factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those in Item 1A: Risk Factors, could affect the company s actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, Snap-on. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, statements, assumptions and projections generally, and the timing and progress with which Snap-on can attain value through its Snap-on Value Creation Processes, including its ability to realize efficiencies and savings from its rapid continuous improvement and other cost reduction initiatives, improve workforce productivity, achieve improvements in the company s manufacturing footprint and greater efficiencies in its supply chain, and enhance machine maintenance, plant productivity and manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, any or all of which could result in production inefficiencies, higher costs and/or lost revenues. These risks also include uncertainties related to Snap-on s capability to implement future strategies with respect to its existing businesses, its ability to refine its brand and franchise strategies, retain and attract franchisees, further enhance service and value to franchisees and thereby help improve their sales and profitability, introduce successful new products, successfully pursue, complete and integrate acquisitions, as well as its ability to withstand disruption arising from natural disasters, planned facility closures or other labor interruptions, the effects of external negative factors, including adverse developments in world financial markets, weakness in certain areas of the global economy (including as a result of the United Kingdom s exit from the European Union), and significant changes in the current competitive environment, inflation, interest rates and other monetary and market fluctuations, changes in tax rates, laws and regulations as well as uncertainty surrounding potential changes, and the impact of energy and raw material supply and pricing, including steel and gasoline, as well as tariffs and other trade protection measures put in place by the U.S. or other countries, the amount, rate and growth of Snap-on s general and administrative expenses, including health care and postretirement costs, continuing and potentially increasing required contributions to pension and postretirement plans, the impacts of non-strategic business and/or product line rationalizations, and the effects on business as a result of new legislation, regulations or government-related developments or issues, risks associated with data security and technological systems and protections, potential reputational damages and costs related to litigation, the ability to effectively manage personnel, and other world or local events outside Snap-on s control, including terrorist disruptions. Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this document, except as required by law. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( GAAP ) prescribe when a company should reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods. Fiscal Year Snap-on s fiscal year ends on the Saturday that is on or nearest to December 31. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this document to fiscal 2019 or 2019 refer to the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019; references to fiscal 2018 or 2018 refer to the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018; and references to fiscal 2017 or 2017 refer to the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017. Snap-on s 2019, 2018 and 2017 fiscal years each contained 52 weeks of operating results. References in this document to 2019, 2018 and 2017 year end refer to December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017, respectively. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 3 Item 1: Business Snap-on was incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1930. Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, such as aviation and aerospace, agriculture, construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education. Snap-on also derives income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its products and support its franchise business. Snap-on markets its products and brands worldwide through multiple sales distribution channels in more than 130 countries. Snap-on s largest geographic markets include the United States, Europe, Canada and Asia Pacific. Snap-on reaches its customers through the company s franchised, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. The company began with the development of the original Snap-on interchangeable socket set in 1920 and subsequently pioneered mobile tool distribution in the automotive repair market, where well stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. Today, Snap-on defines its value proposition more broadly, extending its reach beyond the garage to deliver a broad array of unique solutions that make work easier for serious professionals performing critical tasks. The company s coherent growth strategy focuses on developing and expanding its professional customer base in its legacy automotive market, as well as in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high. In addition to its coherent growth strategy, Snap-on is committed to its Value Creation Processes a set of strategic principles and processes designed to create value and employed in the areas of (i) safety; (ii) quality; (iii) customer connection; (iv) innovation; and (v) rapid continuous improvement ( RCI ). Snap-on s RCI initiatives employ a structured set of tools and processes across multiple businesses and geographies intended to eliminate waste and improve operations. Savings from Snap-on s RCI initiatives reflect benefits from a wide variety of ongoing efficiency, productivity and process improvements, including savings generated from product design cost reductions, improved manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, lower-cost sourcing initiatives and facility consolidations. Snap-on s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair technicians who purchase products through the company s mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ) dealership service and repair shops ( OEM dealerships ). Snap-on s Financial Services customer segment includes: (i) franchisees customers, principally serving vehicle repair technicians, and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostics and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) franchisees who require financing for vehicle leases and business loans. Snap-on s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government, power generation, transportation and technical education market segments (collectively, critical industries ), primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair Systems Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, through direct and distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC ( SOC ), the company s financial services business in the United States, and Snap-on s other financial services subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations. Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. Intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on s consolidated financial results. 4 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED Recent Acquisitions On August 7, 2019, Snap-on acquired Cognitran Limited ( Cognitran ) for a preliminary cash purchase price of $30.4 million (or $29.4 million, net of cash acquired). The preliminary purchase price is subject to change based upon finalization of a working capital adjustment that is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2020. Cognitran, based in Chelmsford, U.K., specializes in flexible, modular and highly scalable Software as a Service (SaaS) products for OEM customers and their dealers, focused on the creation and delivery of service, diagnostics, parts and repair information to the OEM dealers and connected vehicle platforms. The acquisition of Cognitran enhanced and expanded Snap-on s capabilities in providing shop efficiency solutions through integrated upstream services to OEM customers in automotive, heavy duty, agricultural and recreational applications. On April 2, 2019, Snap-on acquired Power Hawk Technologies, Inc. ( Power Hawk ) for a cash purchase price of $7.9 million. Power Hawk, based in Rockaway, New Jersey, designs, manufactures and distributes rescue tools and related equipment for a variety of military, governmental, fire and rescue, and emergency operations. The acquisition of the Power Hawk product line complemented and increased Snap-on s existing product offering and broadened its established capabilities in serving critical industries. On January 25, 2019, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of TMB GeoMarketing Limited ( TMB ) for a cash purchase price of $1.3 million. TMB, based in Dorking, U.K., designs planning software used by OEMs to optimize dealer locations and manage the performance of dealer outlets. The acquisition of TMB extended Snap-on s product line in its core dealer network solutions business. On January 31, 2018, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of George A. Sturdevant, Inc. (d/b/a Fastorq) for a cash purchase price of $3.0 million. Fastorq, based in New Caney, Texas, designs, assembles and distributes hydraulic torque and hydraulic tensioning products for use in critical industries. The acquisition of the Fastorq product line complemented and increased Snap-on s existing torque product offering and broadened its established capabilities in serving in critical industries. On July 28, 2017, Snap-on acquired Torque Control Specialists Pty Ltd ( TCS ) for a cash purchase price of $3.6 million (or $3.5 million, net of cash acquired). TCS, based in Adelaide, Australia, distributes a full range of torque products, including wrenches, multipliers and calibrators, for use in critical industries. The acquisition of TCS enhanced and expanded Snap-on s capabilities in providing solutions that address torque requirements, which are increasingly essential to critical mechanical performance. On May 4, 2017, Snap-on acquired Norbar Torque Tools Holdings Limited, along with its U.S. and Chinese joint ventures ( Norbar ), for a cash purchase price of $71.6 million (or $69.9 million, net of cash acquired). Norbar, based in Banbury, U.K., designs and manufactures a full range of torque products, including wrenches, multipliers and calibrators, for use in critical industries. The acquisition of Norbar enhanced and expanded Snap-on s capabilities in providing solutions that address torque requirements. On January 30, 2017, Snap-on acquired BTC Global Limited ( BTC ) for a cash purchase price of $9.2 million. BTC, based in Crewe, U.K., designs and implements automotive vehicle inspection and management software for OEM franchise repair shops. The acquisition of BTC enhanced Snap-on s capabilities to grow enterprise revenues and add increased productivity for repair workshops. For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Cognitran, TMB and BTC have been included in the Repair Systems Information Group since the respective acquisition dates, and the results of operations and assets of Power Hawk, Fastorq, TCS and Norbar have been included in the Commercial Industrial Group since the respective acquisition dates. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for any of these acquisitions as the net effects, individually and collectively, were neither significant nor material to Snap-on s results of operations or financial position. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 5 Information Available on the Company s Website Additional information regarding Snap-on and its products is available on the company s website at www.snapon.com . Snap-on is not including the information contained on its website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Snap-on s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are made available to the public at no charge through the Investors section of the company s website at www.snapon.com . Snap-on makes such material available on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Copies of any materials the company files with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . In addition, Snap-on s (i) charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Organization and Executive Compensation Committees of the company s Board of Directors; (ii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the company s website. Snap-on will also post any amendments to these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on the company s website at www.snapon.com . Products and Services Tools; Diagnostics, Information and Management Systems; and Equipment Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics, information and management systems; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years: Net Sales (Amounts in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Product Category: Tools $ 2,017.5 $ 2,021.2 $ 1,946.7 Diagnostics, information and management systems 827.5 797.9 800.4 Equipment 885.0 921.6 939.8 $ 3,730.0 $ 3,740.7 $ 3,686.9 The tools product category includes hand tools, power tools, tool storage products and other similar products. Hand tools include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air), hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, screwdrivers, drills, sanders, grinders and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products. For many industrial customers, Snap-on creates specific, engineered solutions, including facility-level tool control and asset management hardware and software, custom kits in a wide range of configurations, and custom-built tools designed to meet customer requirements. The majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers. The diagnostics, information and management systems product category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealerships manage and track performance. The equipment product category includes solutions for the service of vehicles and industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, vehicle air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists. Snap-on supports the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by Snap-on. 6 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following: Names Products and Services Snap-on Hand tools, power tools, tool storage products (including tool control software and hardware), diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, websites, electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business management systems and services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services ATI Aircraft hand tools and machine tools autoVHC Vehicle inspection and training services BAHCO Saw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage Blackhawk Collision repair equipment Blue-Point Hand tools, power tools, tool storage, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories Cartec Safety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamometers, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment Car-O-Liner Collision repair equipment, and information and truck alignment systems CDI Torque tools Challenger Vehicle lifts Cognitran OEM SaaS products Ecotechnics Vehicle air conditioning service equipment Fastorq Hydraulic torque and tensioning products Fish and Hook Saw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage Hofmann Wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment Irimo Saw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage John Bean Wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment Josam Heavy duty alignment and collision repair solutions Lindstr m Hand tools Mitchell1 Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services Nexiq Diagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipment Norbar Torque tools Power Hawk Rescue tools and related equipment for military, government, fire and rescue Pro-Cut Brake service equipment and accessories Sandflex Hacksaw blades, bandsaws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades ShopKey Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services Sioux Power tools Sturtevant Richmont Torque tools Sun Diagnostic tools, wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, air conditioning products and emission testers TruckCam Commercial vehicle OEM factory solutions Williams Hand tools, tool storage, certain equipment and related accessories 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 7 Financial Services Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment sales and lease contracts arising from franchisees customers and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and vehicle leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing source is solely by election of the customer. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay, including the customers financial condition, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, and credit bureau and proprietary Snap-on credit model information, as well as the value of the underlying collateral. Snap-on offers financing through SOC and the company s international finance subsidiaries in most markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. Financing revenue from contract originations is recognized over the life of the underlying contracts, with interest or finance charges computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts. Sales and Distribution Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector. Vehicle Service and Repair Sector The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use in their work; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs. Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet technicians evolving needs. Snap-on s mobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostic equipment, and repair and service information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including special and essential tools as well as consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs. The vehicle service and repair sector is characterized by an increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth and increasing vehicle life, and the resulting effects of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the vehicle service and repair market sector. Industrial Sector Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; schools with vocational and technical programs; aviation and aerospace operations; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power generation operations; equipment fabricators and operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their products and business needs. The industrial sector for Snap-on focuses on providing value-added products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries. The industrial sector is characterized by a highly competitive environment with multiple suppliers offering either a full line or industry specific portfolios for tools and equipment. Industrial customers increasingly require specialized solutions that provide repeatability and reliability in performing tasks of consequence that are specific to the particular end market in which they operate. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the industrial tools and equipment market sector. Distribution Channels Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The following discussion summarizes Snap-on s general approach for each channel and is not intended to be all-inclusive. 8 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED Mobile Van Channel In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted through Snap-on s mobile franchise van channel. Snap-on s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer s place of business. Franchisees sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, shop equipment, and diagnostic and repair information products, which can be transported in a van or trailer and demonstrated during a sales call. Franchisees purchase Snap-on s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee s sales route. Snap-on s franchisees also have the opportunity to add a limited number of additional franchises. Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. F