Item 1 Business 4 Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2 Properties 21 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6 [Reserved] 25 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 53 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 53 Item 9B Other Information 55 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 55 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 55 Item 11 Executive Compensation 56 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 56 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 56 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 57 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 59 Signatures 115 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 120 Certifications 121 2 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED PART I Safe Harbor Statements in this document that are not historical facts, including statements that (i) are in the future tense, (ii) include the words expects, plans, targets, estimates, believes, anticipates, or similar words that reference Snap-on Incorporated ( Snap-on or the company ) or its management, (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking, or (iv) describe Snap on s or management s future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Snap-on cautions the reader that any forward-looking statements included in this document that are based upon assumptions and estimates were developed by management in good faith and are subject to risks, uncertainties or other factors that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in any such statement. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results or regarded as a representation by the company or its management that the projected results will be achieved. For those forward-looking statements, Snap-on cautions the reader that numerous important factors, such as those listed below, as well as those factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those in Item 1A: Risk Factors, could affect the company s actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, Snap-on. Risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: The evolving impact and unknown duration of the ongoing coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic, as well as the effects of governmental actions related thereto on Snap-on s business, which has the potential to amplify the impact of the other risks facing the company; Uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; The timing and progress with which Snap-on can attain value through its Snap-on Value Creation Processes, including its ability to (i) realize efficiencies and savings from its rapid continuous improvement and other cost reduction initiatives, (ii) improve workforce productivity, (iii) achieve improvements in the company s manufacturing footprint and greater efficiencies in its supply chain, and (iv) enhance machine maintenance, plant productivity and manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, any or all of which could result in production inefficiencies, higher costs and/or lost revenues; Snap-on s capability to successfully implement future strategies with respect to its existing businesses; Snap-on s ability to refine its brand and franchise strategies, retain and attract franchisees, and further enhance service and value to franchisees in order to help improve the sales and profitability of franchisees; The company s ability to introduce successful new products; Risks related to pursuing, completing and integrating acquisitions; Snap-on s ability to withstand disruption arising from natural disasters, including climate-related events or other unusual occurrences, impacting our operations; The impact of labor interruptions or challenges; Snap-on s ability to successfully manage planned facility closures or to withstand disruptions from unexpected closures; The effects of external economic factors, including adverse developments in world financial markets, disruptions related to tariffs and other trade issues, and global supply chain interruptions; Weakness in certain geographic areas, including as a result of armed conflicts, localized recessions, and the impact of matters related to the United Kingdom s exit from the European Union; Significant changes in the current competitive environment; Inflation, interest rate changes and other monetary and market fluctuations; Changes in tax rates, laws and regulations as well as uncertainty surrounding potential changes; Price and supply fluctuations related to raw materials, components and certain purchased finished goods, such as steel, plastics, and electronics; Snap-on s ability to successfully manage changes in prices and the availability of energy sources, including gasoline; The amount, rate and growth of Snap-on s general and administrative expenses, including health care and postretirement costs, and continuing and potentially increasing required contributions to pension and postretirement plans; 2021 ANNUAL REPORT 3 The effects of new requirements, legislation, regulations or government-related developments or issues, as well as third party actions, including those addressing climate change; Risks associated with data security and technological systems and protections, including the effects of new legislation, regulations or government-related developments; Potential reputational damages and costs related to litigation; The ability to effectively manage human capital resources; and Other world or local events outside Snap-on s control, including terrorist disruptions, other outbreaks of infectious diseases and civil unrest. Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this document, except as required by law. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( GAAP ) prescribe when a company should reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods. Fiscal Year Snap-on s fiscal year ends on the Saturday that is on or nearest to December 31. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this document to fiscal 2021 or 2021 refer to the fiscal year ended January 1, 2022; references to fiscal 2020 or 2020 refer to the fiscal year ended January 2, 2021; and references to fiscal 2019 or 2019 refer to the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. References in this document to 2021, 2020 and 2019 year end refer to January 1, 2022, January 2, 2021, and December 28, 2019, respectively. Snap-on s 2021 and 2019 fiscal years each contained 52 weeks of operating results. Snap-on s 2020 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of operating results with the extra week occurring in the fourth quarter. Item 1: Business Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostic software, handheld and computer-based diagnostic products, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, such as aviation and aerospace, agriculture, construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education. Snap-on also derives income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its products and support its franchise business. Snap-on markets its products and brands worldwide through multiple sales distribution channels in more than 130 countries. Snap-on s largest geographic markets include the United States, Europe, Canada and Asia Pacific. Snap-on reaches its customers through the company s franchised, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. The company began with the development of the original Snap-on interchangeable socket set in 1920 and subsequently pioneered mobile tool distribution in the automotive repair market, where well-stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. Today, Snap-on defines its value proposition more broadly, extending its reach beyond the garage to deliver a broad array of unique solutions that make work easier for serious professionals performing critical tasks. The company s coherent growth strategy focuses on developing and expanding its professional customer base in its legacy automotive market, as well as in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high. In addition to its coherent growth strategy, Snap-on is committed to its Value Creation Processes a set of strategic principles and processes designed to create value and employed in the areas of (i) safety; (ii) quality; (iii) customer connection; (iv) innovation; and (v) rapid continuous improvement ( RCI ). Snap-on s RCI initiatives employ a structured set of tools and processes across multiple businesses and geographies intended to eliminate waste and improve operations. Savings from Snap-on s RCI initiatives reflect benefits from a wide variety of ongoing efficiency, productivity and process improvements, including savings generated from product design cost reductions, improved manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, lower-cost sourcing initiatives and facility consolidations. 4 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED Snap-on s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair technicians who purchase products through the company s mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ) dealership service and repair shops ( OEM dealerships ). Snap-on s Financial Services customer segment includes: (i) franchisees customers, principally serving vehicle repair technicians, and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools, diagnostics, and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) franchisees who require financing options for vehicle and business needs. Snap-on s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government, power generation, transportation and technical education market segments (collectively, critical industries ), primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair Systems Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, through direct and distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC ( SOC ), the company s financial services business in the United States, and Snap-on s other financial services subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations. Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on s consolidated financial results. Recent Acquisitions Snap-on has continued to broaden its business through a series of coherent acquisitions, which have expanded and enhanced Snap-on s capabilities in a variety of critical industries and in its business operations serving primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships. For information regarding recent acquisitions, see Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information Available on the Company s Website Additional information about Snap-on, including its products and its sustainability commitment, is available on the company s website at www.snapon.com . Snap-on is not including the information contained on its website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Snap-on s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are made available to the public at no charge through the Investors section of the company s website at www.snapon.com . Snap on makes such material available on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Copies of any materials the company files with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . In addition, Snap-on s (i) charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Organization and Executive Compensation Committees of the company s Board of Directors; (ii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the company s website. Snap-on will also post any amendments to these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on the company s website at www.snapon.com . 2021 ANNUAL REPORT 5 Products and Services Tools; Diagnostics, Information and Management Systems; and Equipment Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics, information and management systems; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years: Net Sales (Amounts in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Product Category: Tools $ 2,343.0 $ 1,984.7 $ 2,017.5 Diagnostics, information and management systems 892.5 783.8 827.5 Equipment 1,016.5 824.0 885.0 $ 4,252.0 $ 3,592.5 $ 3,730.0 The tools product category includes hand tools, power tools, tool storage products and other similar products. Hand tools include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air), hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, screwdrivers, drills, sanders, grinders and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products. For many industrial customers, Snap-on creates specific, engineered solutions, including facility-level tool control and asset management hardware and software, custom kits in a wide range of configurations, and custom-built tools designed to meet customer requirements. The majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers. The diagnostics, information and management systems product category includes handheld and computer-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealerships manage and track performance. The equipment product category includes solutions for the service of vehicles and industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane equipment, collision repair equipment, vehicle air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists. Snap-on supports the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by Snap-on. 6 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following: Names Products and Services Snap-on Hand tools, power tools, tool storage products (including tool control software and hardware), diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, websites, electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business management systems and services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services ATI Aircraft hand tools and machine tools AutoCrib Asset and tool control systems autoVHC Vehicle inspection and training services BAHCO Saw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage, including tool control systems Blackhawk Collision repair equipment Blue-Point Hand tools, power tools, tool storage, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories Cartec Safety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamometers, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment Car-O-Liner Collision repair equipment, and information and truck alignment systems CDI Torque tools Challenger Vehicle lifts Cognitran OEM SaaS products Dealer-FX Service operation solutions and OEM SaaS systems Ecotechnics Vehicle air conditioning service equipment Fastorq Hydraulic torque and tensioning products Fish and Hook Saw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage Hofmann Wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment Irimo Saw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage John Bean Wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment Josam Heavy duty alignment and collision repair solutions Lindstr m Hand tools Mitchell1 Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services Nexiq Diagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipment Norbar Torque tools Power Hawk Rescue tools and related equipment for military, government, fire and rescue Pro-Cut Brake service equipment and accessories Sandflex Hacksaw blades, bandsaws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades ShopKey Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services Sioux Power tools Sturtevant Richmont Torque tools Sun Diagnostic tools, wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, air conditioning products and emission testers TreadReader Automotive tire drive-over ramps and handheld devices TruckCam Commercial vehicle OEM factory solutions Williams Hand tools, tool storage, certain equipment and related accessories 2021 ANNUAL REPORT 7 Financial Services Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment sales and lease contracts arising from franchisees customers and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools, diagnostics, and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business and vehicle loans and leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing source is solely by election of the customer. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay, including the customers financial condition, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, and credit bureau and proprietary Snap-on credit model information, as well as the value of the underlying collateral. Snap-on offers financing through SOC and the company s international finance subsidiaries in most markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. Financing revenue from contract originations is recognized over the life of the underlying contracts, with interest or finance charges computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts. Markets Sales and Distribution Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector. Vehicle Service and Repair Sector The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools, diagnostics, and equipment products for use in their work; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools, diagnostics, and equipment products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs. Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet technicians evolving needs. Snap-on s mobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostics, equipment, and repair and service information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including special and essential tools as well as consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs. The market for vehicle service and repair is driven by an increasing rate of technological change, car and truck population growth and increasing unit life, and the resulting effects of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers. In recent years, there has been an increase in the development and sales of electric and hybrid vehicles and this trend is expected to continue. Snap-on has historically benefited from the increasing complexity of car and truck fleets and the changing tools, technologies and data needed to monitor, calibrate, service and repair evolving vehicle platforms. While new technologies, including those associated with alternative energy drivetrains and greater vehicle autonomy, may alter the nature of certain service and repair for particular vehicle types, we believe many of these new technologies provide opportunities to fulfill requirements for enhanced solutions or increased precision. Snap-on believes it is well-positioned to innovate new products to address these changing needs and to extend its leadership position in the expanding vehicle service and repair market sector. Industrial Sector Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; schools with vocational and technical programs; aviation and aerospace operations; oil and gas developers; mining operations; power generation operations, including those associated with alternative energies; equipment fabricators and operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their products and business needs. The industrial sector for Snap-on focuses on providing value-added products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries. 8 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED The industrial sector is characterized by a highly competitive environment with multiple suppliers offering either a full line or industry-specific portfolios for tools and equipment. Industrial customers increasingly require specialized solutions that provide repeatability and reliability in performing tasks of consequence that are specific to the particular end market in which they operate. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the industrial tools and equipment market sector. Distribution Channels Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The following discussion summarizes Snap-on s general approach for each channel and is not intended to be all-inclusive. Mobile Van Channel In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted through Snap on s mobile franchise van channel. Snap-on s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer s place of business. Franchisees sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, shop equipment, diagnostics and repair information products, which can be transported in a van or trailer and demonstrated during a sales call. Franchisees purchase Snap-on s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee s sales route. Snap-on s franchisees also have the opportunity to add a limited number of additional franchises. Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, marketing and product promotion programs, and technology support), is recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $17.3 million, $16.2 million and $15.4 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Snap-on also has a company-owned route program that is designed to: (i) provide another pool of potential field organization personnel; (ii) service customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allow Snap on to pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2021 year end, company-owned routes comprised approximately 4% of the total route population. Snap-on may elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned routes in the future. In addition to its mobile van channel in the United States, Snap-on has franchise distribution models in certain other countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Germany, Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of these markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as repair shop owners and managers. As of 2021 year end, Snap-on s worldwide route count was approximately 4,775, including approximately 3,425 routes in the United States. Through SOC, financing is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van leases, working capital loans and loans to help enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise or the expansion of an existing franchise. In many international markets, Snap-on offers a variety of financing options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through it