Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. [Reserved] 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 95 Item 9B. Other Information 95 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 95 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 Item 11. Executive Compensation 96 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 96 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 96 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 97 SIGNATURES 100 i Table of Contents Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements herein that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, could, would, can, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project, continue, forecast, likely, potential, seek, or the negatives of such terms and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. This Form 10-K includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding: our business, product and platform strategies and business outlook; the impact of macroeconomic conditions, rising global interest rates, legislative developments, trade disruptions, including export control restrictions, semiconductor shortages and supply chain disruptions on our business and our customers businesses; regulatory changes in the United States and other regions in which we operate; the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; demand for our products and our customers products; the expected realization of our contracted but unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations; customer license renewals; our ability to successfully compete in the markets in which we serve; our license mix, business model and variability in our revenue; the continuation of current industry trends towards customer and vendor consolidation, and the impact of such consolidation; prior and future acquisitions, including the expected benefits and risks of completed acquisitions; the completion of development of our unfinished products, or further development or integration of our existing products; technological trends in integrated circuit design; the status of litigation and/or regulatory investigations; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our ability to attract and retain senior management and key employees worldwide; the impact of tax laws and changes in such laws on our business; our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations; and our future liquidity requirements. These statements are based on our current expectations about future events and involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, time frames or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those listed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and Item 3, Legal Proceedings ; and Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Item 9A, Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Synopsys, Inc. or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and 1 Table of Contents consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. When a 53-week year occurs, we include the additional week in the first quarter to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 were 52-week years and ended on October 29, 2022, October 30, 2021 and October 31, 2020, respectively. Fiscal 2023 will be a 52-week year. For presentation purposes, this Form 10-K refers to the closest calendar month end. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Company and Segment Overview Synopsys, Inc. (Synopsys, we, our or us) provides products and services used across the entire Silicon to Software spectrum to bring Smart Everything to life. From engineers creating advanced semiconductors to product teams developing advanced electronic systems to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their code, our customers trust that our technologies will enable them to meet new requirements for low power, reliability, mobility, security and more. We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also offer semiconductor intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, we provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. These products and services are part of our Semiconductor System Design segment. We are also a leading provider of software tools and services that improve the security, quality and compliance of software in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. These tools and services are part of our Software Integrity segment. Corporate Information We incorporated in 1986 in North Carolina and reincorporated in 1987 in Delaware. Our headquarters are located at 690 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and our headquarters telephone number is (650) 584-5000. Our website is https://www.synopsys.com/. We have approximately 125 offices worldwide. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, including those relating to our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and any amendments to such reports or other information filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available through the Investor Relations page of our website ( https://www.synopsys.com/company/investor-relations/financials.html ) free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC ( www.sec.gov ). We use our Investor Relations page as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, investor presentations and financial information. The contents of our website are not part of this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference. Background In this era of Smart Everything, we have seen a remarkable proliferation of consumer and wireless electronic products, particularly mobile devices. The growth of the Internet and cloud computing has provided people with new ways to create, store, and share information. At the same time, the increasing use of electronics in cars, buildings, appliances, and other consumer products is creating a connected landscape of smart devices. Numerous software applications have been developed to expand the potential of these connected devices. The increasing impact of artificial intelligence and machine learning is driving an increase in the activity of new and existing chip and system design companies around the world. These developments have been fueled by innovation in the semiconductor and software industries. It is now common for a single chip to combine many components (processor, communications, memory, custom logic, input/output) and embedded software into a single system-on-chip (SoC), necessitating highly complex chip designs. The most complex chips today contain more than a billion transistors. Transistors are the basic building blocks for ICs, each of which may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair. These devices are manufactured using masks to direct beams of light onto a wafer of silicon. At such small dimensions, the wavelength of light itself can become an obstacle to production, proving too big to create such dense features and requiring creative and complicated new approaches. Designers have turned to new manufacturing techniques to solve these problems, such as multiple-patterning lithography and FinFET 3D transistors, which in turn have introduced new challenges to design and production. 3 Table of Contents The popularity of mobile devices and other electronic products has increased demand for chips and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and lower power consumption. Our customers, who design those products, are facing intense pressure to deliver innovative offerings in shorter timeframes and at lower prices. In other words, innovation in chip and system design often hinges on providing products better, sooner, and cheaper than competitors. The design of these chips and systems is extremely complex and necessitates state-of-the-art solutions. Over the past several years, market verticals including artificial intelligence (AI), 5G, automotive and cloud computing infrastructure have contributed to the ongoing demand for our products and services. A similar dynamic is at work in the software arena, whether the software is embedded on a chip or used in other applications. The pace of innovation often requires developers to deliver more secure, high-quality software, which can include millions of lines of code, in increasingly frequent release cycles. Bugs, defects and security vulnerabilities in code can be difficult to detect and expensive to fix. Despite these challenges, it is crucial to have high-quality, secure code to ensure consumers' privacy and safety, especially at a time when software is critical in many industries across a growing array of smart devices. Our Role As the Silicon to Software Partner Synopsys' Silicon to Software technologies and services are designed to help our customers chip and system engineers and software developers to speed up time to market, achieve the highest quality of results, mitigate risk, and maximize profitability. Chip and system designers must determine how best to design, locate and connect the building blocks of chips, and to verify that the resulting design behaves as intended and can be manufactured efficiently and cost-effectively. This is a complex, multi-step process that is both expensive and time-consuming. Our wide range of products help at different steps in the overall design process, from the design of individual ICs to the design of larger systems. Our products increase designer productivity and efficiency by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs and reducing errors. Our IP products offer proven, high-quality pre-configured circuits that are ready to use in a chip design, saving customers time and enabling them to direct resources to features that differentiate their products. Our global service and support engineers also provide expert technical support and design assistance to our customers. Software developers are responsible for writing code that not only accomplishes its goals as efficiently as possible, but also runs securely and is free of defects. We offer products that can help developers write higher quality, more secure code by analyzing code for quality defects and known security vulnerabilities, adding intelligence and automation to the software testing process, and helping to eliminate defects in a systematic manner. As developers make use of open source software in their code, our products can help developers better manage the composition and security of the code. Our products enable software developers to catch flaws earlier in the development cycle, when they are less costly to fix. Products and Services Semiconductor System Design Segment Our Semiconductor System Design segment includes the EDA, IP and System Integration and Other revenue categories. EDA Designing ICs involves many complex steps, including, among others architecture definition, register transfer level (RTL) design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, place and route, and physical verification. Designers use our EDA products to automate the IC design process, reduce errors and enable more powerful and robust designs. As the availability and amount of cloud-based data storage grows, customer interest in accessing EDA on the cloud is also increasing as customers seek to benefit from the scalability and flexibility that cloud computing can offer to their flows and engineering teams. While many of our solutions have been used in cloud-based environments for years, such as in a customer s own server and/or cloud environment, in fiscal 2022 we launched a new Synopsys Cloud offering that provides customers additional options for accessing our EDA products. Our solutions comprehensively address the design process, featuring a large number of EDA products that generally fall into the following categories: 4 Table of Contents Digital and custom IC design and field programmable gate array (FPGA) design, which includes software tools to design an IC; Verification, which includes technology to verify that an IC design behaves as intended; and Manufacturing, which includes products that both enable early manufacturing process development and convert IC design layouts into the masks used to manufacture the chips. Digital and Custom IC Design Our Digital Design Family provides customers with a comprehensive digital design implementation solution that includes industry-leading products and redefines conventional design tool boundaries to deliver a more integrated flow than ever before, with better quality and time to results. The platform gives designers the flexibility to integrate internally developed tools as well as those from third parties. With innovative technologies, a common foundation, and flexibility, our Digital Design Family helps reduce design times, decrease uncertainties in design steps, and minimize the risks inherent in advanced, complex IC design. The platform supports multiple technology nodes, including advanced nodes at 12nm, 10nm, 8/7nm, 6 nm, 5/4nm, and 3nm, with technology collaborations on next-generation process technologies. Key design products, available as part of the Digital Design Family, include Fusion Compiler RTL to GDSII design implementation, Design Compiler logic synthesis, IC Compiler II physical design, Synopsys TestMAX test and diagnosis, PrimeTime static timing analysis, StarRC parasitic extraction, IC Validator physical verification and 3DIC Compiler, the industry s first next-generation chip packaging solution, aimed at enabling customers to combine or stack multiple dice on a single chip. Many of our EDA solutions are bolstered by AI and machine learning capabilities. In addition, we offer DSO.ai, the first product in the market that brings AI to the entire design process. This groundbreaking solution autonomously learns through quickly exploring potential design alternatives, enabling engineers to develop superior design outcomes with our design tools. Our Custom Design Family is a unified suite of design and verification tools that accelerates the transistor-level design of robust analog, mixed-signal, and custom-digital ICs. The platform features visually assisted layout automation, high-performance circuit simulation, reliability-aware verification, and natively integrated StarRC extraction and physical verification. This product family includes Custom Compiler layout and schematic editor, StarRC parasitic extraction, and IC Validator physical verification. It also includes PrimeSim, which was launched in fiscal 2021. The PrimeSim solution integrates PrimeSim SPICE, PrimeSim HSPICE, PrimeSim Pro and PrimeSim XA. The PrimeWave design environment is also included and provides comprehensive analysis and improved productivity and ease of use across all tools in PrimeSim. Our Silicon Lifecycle Management (SLM) Family is a new data analytics-driven platform that uses in-chip monitoring and sensing to optimize all phases of the silicon lifecycle from design and manufacturing to in-field deployment and maintenance. The solution is integrated with the Digital Design Family for design calibration and analytics and includes Yield Explorer for product ramp analytics, SiliconDash for test and production analytics, TestMAX ALE (adaptive learning engine) for intelligent data extraction and communication to the SLM database and DesignWare PVT IP for in-chip monitoring and sensing. FPGA Design FPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For FPGA design, we offer Synplify (Pro and Premier) implementation and Identify debug software tools. Verification Our Verification Family is built from our industry-leading verification technologies, providing virtual prototyping, static and formal verification, simulation, emulation, FPGA-based prototyping, and debug in a unified environment with verification IP, planning, and coverage technology. By providing consistent compile, runtime and debug environments across the flow of verification tasks and by enabling seamless transitions across functions, the platform helps our customers accelerate chip verification, bring up software earlier, and get to market sooner with advanced SoCs. The individual products included in the Verification Family are reported in our EDA and IP and System Integration revenue categories. The solutions reported in our EDA revenue include the following: 5 Table of Contents VC SpyGlass family of static verification technologies including lint, CDC (clock domain crossing), RDC (reset domain crossing), Constraint Checking, Synopsys TestMAX Advisor , and low-power analysis and verification; VCS functional verification solution, our comprehensive RTL and gate-level simulation technology, including Fine-Grained Parallelism; Verdi automated debug system, the industry s most comprehensive SoC debug; VC Formal, our next-generation formal verification product; ZeBu emulation systems, which use high-performance hardware to emulate SoC designs so that designers can accelerate hardware, software and power verification of large complex SoCs and perform earlier verification and optimization of the SoC together with software; and Other principal individual verification solutions, including the PrimeSim solution and the PrimeWave design environment. The verification IP, virtual prototyping, and FPGA-based prototyping solutions that are part of our Verification Family are included in our IP and System Integration category and further described below. Manufacturing Our manufacturing solutions include Sentaurus technology computer-aided design device and process simulation products, Proteus mask synthesis tools, CATS mask data preparation software, Yield Explorer Odyssey, Yield-Manager yield management solutions and QuantumATK atomic-scale modeling software. We also provide consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process, as well as a broad range of expert training and workshops on our latest tools and methodologies. IP and System Integration IP Products As more functionality converges into a single chip or even a multi-die system, the number of third-party IP blocks incorporated into designs is rapidly increasing. We provide the broadest, most comprehensive portfolio of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for SoCs. Our broad Synopsys IP portfolio includes: High-quality solutions for widely used wired and wireless interfaces such as USB, PCI Express, DDR, Ethernet, MIPI, HDMI, and Bluetooth Low Energy; Logic libraries and embedded memories, including memory compilers, non-volatile memory, and standard cells with integrated test and repair; Processor solutions, including configurable ARC processors, Neural Network processors, Digital Signal Processor cores, and software and application-specific instruction-set processor tools for embedded applications; Security IP solutions, including cryptographic cores and software, security subsystems, platform security and secured interface IP; An industry-leading IP offering for the automotive market, optimized for strict functional safety and reliability standards such as ISO 26262; and SoC infrastructure IP, datapath and building block IP, mathematical and floating-point components, Arm AMBA interconnect fabric and peripherals, and verification IP. Our IP Accelerated initiative augments our established, broad portfolio of silicon-proven Synopsys IP with IP Prototyping Kits and customized IP subsystems to accelerate prototyping, software development, and integration of IP into SoCs. 6 Table of Contents We offer a broad portfolio of IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, Internet of things, and cloud computing markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas . Our Verification IP portfolio, part of our Verification Family, is also part of the IP Products category. System Integration Solutions Our System Integration verification solutions include the following elements of our Verification Family: HAPS FPGA-based prototyping systems, which are integrated and scalable hardware-software solutions for early software development and faster time to market; Virtualizer virtual prototyping solution, which addresses the increasing development challenges associated with software-rich semiconductor and electronic products by accelerating both the development and deployment of virtual prototypes; and Platform Architect solution, which provides for early analysis and optimization of multi-core SoC architectures for performance and power . We also provide a series of tools used in the design of optical systems and photonic devices. Our CODE V solution enables engineers to model, analyze and optimize designs for optical imaging and communication systems. Our LightTools design and analysis software allows designers to simulate and improve the performance of a broad range of illumination systems, from vehicle lighting to projector systems. Other Our Other revenue category includes revenue from sales of products to academic and research institutions. Software Integrity Segment Our Software Integrity segment helps organizations align people, processes and technology to intelligently address software risks across their portfolio and at all stages of the application lifecycle. The testing tools, services, and programs enable our customers to manage open source license compliance and detect, prioritize, and remediate security vulnerabilities and defects across their entire software development lifecycle. Our offerings include security and quality testing products, managed services, programs and professional services, and training offered as on-premises and cloud-based delivery. The Polaris Software Integrity Platform is designed to bring our products and services together into an integrated, easy-to-use solution that enables security and development teams to build secure, high-quality software faster. Key offerings in this space include: Intelligent Orchestration solution, which enables DevOps to build a testing pipeline that enables a company to define within its particular policy guidelines the rules to determine which tests to run, including the Synopsys portfolio tests, third party products, or open source tests; Code Dx, which correlates and prioritizes findings from the Synopsys portfolio, third party products, and open source tools, providing a comprehensive view of software security risk; Coverity static analysis tools , which analyze software code to find crash-causing bugs, incorrect program behavior, the latest security vulnerabilities, memory leaks and other performance-degrading flaws; Black Duck software composition analysis tools, which scan binary and source code for license and compliance issues and other known security vulnerabilities stemming from incorporated third-party and open source code; WhiteHat Dynamic, our latest dynamic application security testing solution, which rapidly and accurately finds vulnerabilities in websites and applications; Seeker IAST tool, which identifies exploitable security vulnerabilities while web applications are running, thereby verifying results and eliminating false positives; and 7 Table of Contents Defensics fuzz testing tools, which examine security vulnerabilities in software binaries and libraries, particularly network protocols and file formats, by systematically sending invalid or unexpected inputs to the system under test . Managed services allow developers to test code across many dimensions, and to rapidly respond to changing testing requirements and evolving threats. This includes mobile application security testing services to find vulnerabilities in mobile applications as well as dynamic application security testing services, which identify security vulnerabilities while web applications are running, without the need for source code. Programs and professional services address unique security and quality needs with specialized consulting by skilled experts, including the Building Security in Maturity Mode, which measures the effectiveness of software security initiatives by assessing the current state as compared to industry benchmarks, and the Black Duck on demand audit services, which provides open source compliance and software vulnerability assessments as part of the due diligence process for mergers and acquisitions. Finally, training includes eLearning and instructor-led training that prepares developers and security professionals to build security and quality into their software development process and remediate found vulnerabilities and defects. Customer Service and Technical Support A high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our products through both field-based and corporate-based application engineering teams. Post-contract customer support includes providing frequent updates to maintain the utility of the software due to rapid changes in technology. In our Semiconductor System Design segment, post-contract customer support for our EDA and IP products also includes access to the SolvNet Plus portal, where customers can explore our complete design knowledge database. Updated daily, the SolvNet Plus portal includes technical documentation, design tips and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, with our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs. In our Software Integrity segment, post-contract customer support for our products includes access to our support community portal, where customers can access our product documentation, self-service training materials, customer forums and our product knowledge base. Customers can also raise support tickets, request replacement license keys and validate the terms of their active license keys through the portal. Our support community portal is frequently updated with new and supplemental materials on a variety of topics. Customers may engage dedicated support engineers for an additional charge. In addition, we offer training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops cover our EDA products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing system design, logic design, physical design, simulation and testing. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses in a variety of locations worldwide, as well as online training (live or on-demand) through our Virtual Classrooms. Product Warranties We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially 