Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 31 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. [Reserved] 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 105 Item 9B. Other Information 106 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 106 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 107 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 108 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 111 SIGNATURES 112 i Table of Contents Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K or this Annual Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements herein that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, could, would, can, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project, continue, forecast, likely, potential, seek, or the negatives of such terms and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. This Form 10-K includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding: business and market outlook, opportunities, strategies and technological trends, such as artificial intelligence; planned acquisitions and their expected impact, including our pending acquisition of ANSYS, Inc. (the Ansys Merger); the potential impact of the uncertain macroeconomic environment on our financial results, including, but not limited to, the effects of sustained global inflationary pressures and interest rates, potential economic slowdowns or recessions, supply chain disruptions and geopolitical pressures; the expected impact of U.S. and foreign government trade restrictions and regulatory changes, including export control restrictions and tariffs, on our financial results; customer license renewals and the expected realization and timing of recognition of our contracted but unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations (backlog); demand and market expansion for our products and our customers products; our ability to successfully compete in the markets in which we serve; our license mix, business model and variability in our revenue; the continuation of current industry trends towards customer and vendor consolidation, and the impact of such consolidation; the completion of development of our unfinished products, or further development or integration of our existing products; the status of litigation and/or regulatory investigations; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our ability to attract and retain senior management and key employees worldwide; the impact of tax laws and changes in such laws on our business; our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations; and our future liquidity requirements. These statements are based on our current expectations about future events and involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, time frames or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those listed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and Item 3, Legal Proceedings ; and Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Item 9A, Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Synopsys, Inc. or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time 1 Table of Contents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. Fiscal Year End Historically, our fiscal years have been 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday nearest to October 31. Fiscal 2024 was a 53-week year ending on November 2, 2024, which impacted our revenue, expenses and operating results. Fiscal 2023 and 2022 were 52-week years and ended on October 28, 2023 and October 29, 2022, respectively. We have changed our fiscal year end from the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consisting of 52 or 53 fiscal weeks to a fiscal year end of October 31 each year. The fiscal year change becomes effective with our fiscal year 2025, which began on November 3, 2024. Our fiscal quarters will end on January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year. For presentation purposes, this Annual Report refers to the closest calendar month end. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Company and Segment Overview Synopsys, Inc. (Synopsys, we, our or us) delivers trusted and comprehensive silicon to systems design solutions, from electronic design automation (EDA), including system verification and validation solutions, to silicon intellectual property (IP). We partner closely with semiconductor and systems customers across a wide range of industries to maximize their engineering and research and development capacity. We are catalyzing the era of pervasive intelligence, powering innovation today that ignites the ingenuity of tomorrow. We are a global leader in supplying the mission-critical EDA software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips or silicon, and we are pioneering artificial intelligence (AI) driven chip design across the full-stack EDA suite to improve efficiency and accelerate the design, verification testing and manufacturing of advanced digital and analog chips. We provide software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them, including cloud-based digital design flow to boost chip-design development productivity. We also provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. These products and services are part of our Design Automation segment. We also offer a broad and comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor IP solutions, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs to reduce integration risk and speed time to market. Our high quality, silicon-proven semiconductor IP includes logic libraries, embedded memories, analog IP, wired and wireless interface IP, security IP, embedded processors and subsystems. To accelerate IP integration and silicon bring-up, our IP Accelerated initiative provides architecture design expertise, hardening, and signal and power integrity analysis. These products and services are part of our Design IP segment. Corporate Information Our headquarters are located at 675 Almanor Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94085, and our headquarters telephone number is (650) 584-5000. Our website is https://www.synopsys.com/. We have 116 offices worldwide. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, including those relating to our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and any amendments to such reports or other information filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available through the Investor Relations page of our website ( https://investor.synopsys.com/overview/default.aspx ) free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC ( www.sec.gov ). We use our Investor Relations page as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including, among other things, news releases, investor presentations and financial information and to comply with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference. Background In today s era of pervasive intelligence, we have seen an acceleration in innovation cycles and a growing opportunity for Synopsys. The proliferation of silicon to power our digital world, where technology is omnipresent and interconnected, means computing is being reinvented with the rise of AI and software-defined systems. In turn, this is driving an increase in the activity of new and existing chip and system design companies around the world. These developments are accompanied by increasing complexity. It is now common for a single chip to combine many components (processor, communications, memory, custom logic, input/output) and embedded software into a single system-on-chip (SoC), requiring highly complex chip designs. The most complex chips today contain more than a billion transistors. Transistors are the basic building blocks for ICs, each of which may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair. These devices are manufactured using masks to direct beams of light onto a wafer of silicon. At such small dimensions, the wavelength of light itself can become an obstacle to production, proving too big to create such dense features and requiring creative and complicated new approaches. Designers have turned to new manufacturing techniques to solve these problems, such as multiple-patterning lithography, FinFET 3D transistors 3 Table of Contents and Gate-All-Around Field-Effect transistor structures, which in turn have introduced new challenges to design and production. The rise of silicon-powered intelligent devices and AI has increased demand for chips and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and lower power consumption. Our customers, who design silicon and software-defined systems, are facing intense pressure to deliver innovative offerings in shorter timeframes and at lower prices. In other words, innovation in chip and systems design often hinges on providing products better, sooner, and cheaper than competitors. The design of these chips and systems is extremely complex and necessitates state-of-the-art solutions. Over the past several years, market verticals including AI, 5G, automotive and cloud computing infrastructure have contributed to the ongoing demand for our products and services. Our Role As the Silicon to Systems Design Solutions Partner Synopsys' silicon to systems design solutions are designed to help our customers chip and system engineers and software developers speed up time to market, achieve the highest quality of results, mitigate risk, and maximize profitability. Chip and systems designers must determine how best to design, locate and connect the building blocks of chips, and to verify that the resulting design behaves as intended and can be manufactured efficiently and cost-effectively. This is a complex, multi-step process that is expensive and time-consuming. Our wide range of products help at different steps in the overall design process, from the design of individual ICs to the design of larger systems. Our products increase designer productivity and efficiency by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs and reducing errors. Our IP products offer proven, high-quality pre-configured circuits that are ready to use in a chip design, saving customers time and enabling them to direct resources to features that differentiate their products. Our global service and support engineers provide expert technical support and design assistance to our customers. Products and Services Design Automation Segment Our Design Automation segment includes the EDA and Other revenue groups. EDA Designing ICs involves many complex steps, including, among others architecture definition, register transfer level (RTL) design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, place and route, and physical verification. Designers use our EDA products to accelerate and automate the chip design process, reduce errors and enable more powerful and robust designs, with improved productivity for faster time to market. As the availability and amount of cloud-based data storage grows, customer interest in accessing EDA on the cloud is also increasing as customers seek to benefit from the scalability and flexibility that cloud computing can offer to their flows and engineering teams. While many of our solutions have been used in cloud-based environments for years, such as in a customer s own server and/or cloud environment, in fiscal 2022 we launched a Synopsys Cloud offering that provides customers additional options for accessing our EDA products in their own cloud environments and in the industry s first EDA Software-as-a-Service solution developed in partnership with Microsoft Azure. Our solutions comprehensively address the design process, featuring a large number of EDA products that generally fall into the following categories: Digital and custom IC design tools are used for designing and verifying complex chips, and for designing the advanced processes and models required to manufacture those chips; Field programmable gate array (FPGA) design, which accelerate time-to-shipping hardware with deep debug visibility, incremental design, broad language support, and optimal performance and area for FPGA-based products. Verification, which includes technology to verify that an IC design behaves as intended; Manufacturing, which includes products that both enable early manufacturing process development and convert IC design layouts into the masks used to manufacture the chips; and AI-driven EDA solutions, which include AI and machine learning capabilities to boost productivity and improve efficiency throughout the EDA flow. 4 Table of Contents Digital and Custom IC Design Our Digital Design Family provides customers with a comprehensive digital design implementation solution that includes industry-leading products and redefines conventional design tool boundaries to deliver a more integrated flow than ever before, with better quality and time to results. The platform gives designers the flexibility to integrate internally developed tools as well as those from third parties. With innovative technologies, a common foundation, and flexibility, our Digital Design Family helps reduce design times, decrease uncertainties in design steps, and minimize the risks inherent in advanced, complex IC design. The platform supports multiple technology nodes, including advanced nodes at 12nm, 10nm, 8/7nm, 6 nm, 5/4nm, 3nm and 2 nm, with technology collaborations on next-generation process technologies. Key design products are available as part of the Digital Design Family and include Fusion Compiler TM RTL to GDSII design implementation, Design Compiler NXT logic synthesis, IC Compiler TM II physical design, Synopsys TestMAX TM test and diagnosis, PrimeTime static timing analysis, PrimePower power analysis, PrimeLib library characterization, StarRC TM parasitic extraction, IC Validator TM physical verification and 3DIC Compiler, the industry s first next-generation chip packaging solution, aimed at enabling customers to combine or stack multiple dice on a single chip. Our Custom Design Family is a unified suite of design and verification tools that accelerates the transistor-level design of robust analog, mixed-signal, and custom-digital ICs. This product family features visually assisted layout automation, high-performance circuit simulation, reliability-aware verification, and natively integrated parasitic RC extraction and physical verification. It includes Custom Compiler TM layout and schematic editor, StarRC parasitic extraction, IC Validator physical verification and PrimeSim TM . The PrimeSim solution provides a unified workflow of next-generation simulation technologies to accelerate the design and signoff of IC designs including PrimeSim SPICE, PrimeSimPro, PrimeSim HSPICE TM and PrimeSimXA. The PrimeWave TM design environment provides comprehensive analysis and improved productivity and ease of use across all tools in PrimeSim. Our Silicon Lifecycle Management (SLM) family of products improves silicon health and operational metrics at every phase of the device lifecycle. This family of products is built on a foundation of enriched in-chip observability, analytics and integrated automation. Synopsys' SLM in-chip monitoring enables deep insights from silicon to systems by providing meaningful data for continuous analysis and actionable feedback. The solution is integrated with the Digital Design Family for design calibration and analytics and includes Yield Explorer for product ramp analytics, Silicon.da for AI-driven test and production analytics, TestMAX ALE (adaptive learning engine) for intelligent data extraction and communication to the SLM database and PVT IP for in-chip monitoring and sensing. FPGA Design FPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For the process of converting a high-level hardware description language design into an FPGA netlist, a process known as FPGA-logic synthesis, we offer Synplify FPGA synthesis tools that provide fast runtime, performance, area optimization for cost and power reduction, multi-FPGA vendor support, and incremental synthesis capabilities for faster FPGA design development. Verification Our Verification Family is built from our industry-leading verification technologies and provides virtual prototyping, static and formal verification, simulation, emulation, FPGA-based prototyping and debug in a unified environment with verification IP, planning, and coverage technology. By providing consistent compile, runtime and debug environments across the flow of verification tasks and by enabling seamless transitions across functions, the platform helps our customers accelerate chip verification, bring up software earlier, and get to market sooner with advanced SoCs. The individual products and solutions included in the Verification Family include the following: VC SpyGlass TM family of static verification technologies including lint, CDC (clock domain crossing), RDC (reset domain crossing), Constraint Checking, Synopsys TestMAX Advisor , and low-power analysis and verification; VCS functional verification solution, our comprehensive RTL and gate-level simulation technology, including Fine-Grained Parallelism; Verdi , our next generation platform that provides AI-based SoC debug solution with an integrated development environment and advanced verification management capabilities system; 5 Table of Contents VC Formal TM , which leverages ML-based techniques to verify complex SoC designs, find deep corner-case design bugs, and enables formal signoff for control and datapath blocks; ZeBu emulation systems, which use high-performance hardware to emulate SoC designs so that designers can accelerate hardware, software and power verification of large complex SoCs and perform earlier verification and optimization of the SoC together with software; HAPS FPGA-based prototyping systems, which are integrated and scalable hardware-software solutions for early software development, hardware verification and system validation of IP blocks to processor subsystems to complete SoCs, including the use of at-speed interfaces, for better performance, higher quality and faster time to market; Virtualizer TM virtual prototyping solution, which addresses the increasing development challenges associated with software-rich semiconductor and electronic products by accelerating both the development and deployment of virtual prototypes; Platform Architect TM solution, which provides for early analysis and optimization of multi-core SoC architectures for performance and power; and Other principal individual verification solutions, including the PrimeSim solution and the PrimeWave design environment. Manufacturing Our manufacturing solutions include Synopsys technology computer-aided design (TCAD), mask synthesis and manufacturing analytics. Synopsys TCAD enables computer-aided simulations to develop and optimize semiconductor process technologies. We also offer Proteus TM Mask Synthesis tools, CATS mask data preparation software, Yield Explorer Odyssey, Yield-Manager yield management solutions and QuantumATK TM atomic-scale modeling software. Synopsys enables its customers to realize the benefits of smart manufacturing by using advanced techniques in AI/ML and large data sets. These smart manufacturing solutions are built upon Synopsys extensive expertise in IC design, mask synthesis, process modeling, on-chip test and monitoring techniques and cloud-based data analytics. We also provide consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process, as well as a broad range of expert training and workshops on our latest tools and methodologies. Synopsys.ai: Synopsys' AI-Driven EDA Stack Our EDA software stack spanning design, verification, and manufacturing is augmented with AI and machine learning through our Synopsys.ai TM suite of complementary solutions. Synopsys.ai offers industry leading AI-driven workflow optimization and data analytics solutions along with breakthrough generative AI capabilities, allowing engineers to accelerate and automate chip design and improve efficiency throughout the entire EDA flow. The Synopsys.ai suite of solutions include: DSO.ai TM Design Space Optimization for best quality of results and productivity with scaling of exploration design workflows; VSO.ai TM Verification Space Optimization for optimal functional verification coverage and faster turnaround time; TSO.ai TM Test Space Optimization for reduced pattern count, turnaround time and higher coverage; ASO.ai TM Analog Space Optimization for analog design and layout optimization and migration; Design.da Design data analytics for actionable insights to unlock untapped power, performance, and area; Silicon.da Silicon data analytics for root-cause analysis and part-level traceability of failures to improve key production and silicon operational metrics; and Fab.da Manufacturing data analytics for improved process control, time to market and higher yield. Other Our Other product group includes revenue from sales of products to university programs as well as our optical products, mechatronic simulation, and the impact of gains and losses from foreign currency hedges. 6 Table of Contents Design IP Segment Our Design IP segment includes our Design IP products, which service companies primarily in the semiconductor and electronics industries. Design IP Products As more functionality converges into a single chip or even a multi-die system, the number of third-party IP blocks incorporated into designs is rapidly increasing. We provide the broadest, most comprehensive portfolio of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for SoCs. Our broad Synopsys IP portfolio includes: High-quality solutions for widely used interfaces such as UCIe, USB, PCI Express, DDR, Ethernet, MIPI and HDMI; Logic libraries and embedded memories, including memory compilers, non-volatile memory, and standard cells with integrated test and repair; Processor solutions, including configurable ARC processors, Neural Network processors, Digital Signal Processor cores, and software and application-specific instruction-set processor tools for embedded applications; Security IP solutions, including cryptographic cores and software, security subsystems, platform security and secured interface IP; An industry-leading IP offering for the automotive market, optimized for strict functional safety, reliability and cybersecurity standards such as ISO 26262 and ISO 21434; and SoC infrastructure IP, datapath and building block IP, mathematical and floating-point components, Arm AMBA interconnect fabric and peripherals, and verification IP. Our IP Accelerated initiative augments our established, broad portfolio of silicon-proven Synopsys IP with SoC architecture design support, customized IP subsystems, signal/power integrity analysis and IP hardening to accelerate the product development cycle. We offer a broad portfolio of IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, Internet of things and AI/data center markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas . Customer Service and Technical Support A high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our products through application engineering teams. Post-contract customer support includes providing frequent updates to maintain the utilization of the software due to rapid changes in technology. In our Design Automation and Design IP segments, post-contract customer support for our EDA and IP products also includes access to the SolvNet Plus portal, where customers can explore our complete design knowledge database, access self-help and receive support. Updated regularly, the SolvNet Plus portal includes technical documentation, design tips and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, with our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs. In addition, we offer training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops cover our EDA products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing systems design, logic design, physical design, simulation and testing. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses in a variety of locations worldwide, as well as online training (live or on-demand) through our Virtual Classrooms. Product Warranties We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of 90 days for our software products and for up to six months for our hardware products. In certain cases, we also provide our customers with limited indemnification with respect to claims that their use of our software products infringes on patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We have not experienced material warranty or indemnity claims to date. 7 Table of Contents Support for Industry Standards We actively create and support standards that help our EDA and IP customers increase productivity, facilitate efficient design flows, improve interoperability of tools from different vendors and ensure connectivity, functionality and interoperability of IP building blocks. Standards in the electronic design industry can be established by formal accredited organizations, industry consortia, intercompany licensing , de facto usage, or through open-source licensing. Our products support multiple Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) including numerous commonly used frameworks and data and file formats. In our Design Automation segment, our EDA products support many standards, including the many commonly used hardware description languages: SystemVerilog, Verilog, VHDL and SystemC. Our products utilize numerous industry-standard data formats, APIs and databases for the seamless exchange of design data among our tools, other EDA vendors products and applications that customers develop internally across design flows. In our Design IP segment, we support a wide range of industry standards within our IP product family to ensure usability and interconnectivity. Sales and Distribution Our Design Automation and Design IP segment customers are primarily semiconductor and electronics systems companies. We market our products and services primarily through direct sales in the United States and our principal foreign markets. We typically distribute our software products and documentation to customers electronically. We maintain sales and support centers throughout the United States. Outside the United States, we maintain sales, support or service offices in Canada, multiple countries in Europe, Israel and throughout Asia, including Japan, China, Korea, India and Taiwan. Our offices are further described under Part I, Item 2, Properties of this Annual Report . Information relating to domestic and foreign operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, is contained in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements a