Item 1. Business Overview S P Global Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, S P Global, the Company, the Registrant, we, us or our ) is a provider of credit ratings, benchmarks, analytics and workflow solutions in the global capital, commodity and automotive markets. The capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms and issuers; the commodity markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, petrochemicals, metals steel and agriculture; and the automotive markets include manufacturers, suppliers, dealerships, service shops and consumers. We serve our global customers through a broad range of products and services available through both third-party and proprietary distribution channels. We were incorporated in December of 1925 under the laws of the state of New York. Our Businesses Our operations consist of five businesses: S P Global Market Intelligence ( Market Intelligence ), S P Global Ratings ( Ratings ), S P Global Commodity Insights ( Commodity Insights ), S P Global Mobility ( Mobility ) and S P Dow Jones Indices ( Indices ). As of May 2, 2023, we completed the sale of Engineering Solutions ( Engineering Solutions ), a provider of engineering standards and related technical knowledge, and the results are included through that date. For a discussion on the competitive conditions and regulatory environment associated with our businesses, see MD A Segment Review contained in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Market Intelligence Market Intelligence is a global provider of multi-asset-class data and analytics integrated with purpose-built workflow solutions. Market Intelligence s portfolio of capabilities are designed to help trading and investment professionals, government agencies, corporations and universities track performance, generate alpha, identify investment ideas, understand competitive and industry dynamics, perform valuations and manage credit risk. Key customers served by Market Intelligence include investment managers, investment banks, private equity firms, insurance companies, commercial banks, corporations, professional services firms, government agencies and regulators. Market Intelligence includes the following business lines: Desktop a product suite that provides data, analytics and third-party research for global finance and corporate professionals, which includes the Capital IQ platforms (which are inclusive of S P Capital IQ Pro, Capital IQ, Office and Mobile products); Data Advisory Solutions a broad range of research, reference data, market data, derived analytics and valuation services covering both the public and private capital markets, delivered through flexible feed-based or API delivery mechanisms. This also includes issuer solutions for public companies, a range of products for the maritime trade market, data and insight into Financial Institutions, the telecoms, technology and media space as well as Environmental, Social and Governance ( ESG ) and supply chain data analytics; Enterprise Solutions software and workflow solutions that help our customers manage and analyze data; identify risk; reduce costs; and meet global regulatory requirements. The portfolio includes industry leading financial technology solutions like Wall Street Office, Enterprise Data Manager, Information Mosaic, and iLevel. Our Global Markets Group offering delivers bookbuilding platforms across multiple assets including municipal bonds, equities and fixed income; and Credit Risk Solutions commercial arm that sells Ratings credit ratings and related data and research, advanced analytics, and financial risk solutions which includes subscription-based offerings, RatingsXpress , RatingsDirect and Credit Analytics. Subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily derived from distribution of data, valuation services, analytics, third party research, and credit ratings-related information through both feed and web-based channels. Subscription revenue also includes software and hosted product offerings which provide maintenance and continuous access to our platforms over the contract term. Recurring variable revenue at Market Intelligence represents revenue from contracts for services that specify a 6 Table of Contents fee based on, among other factors, the number of trades processed, assets under management, or the number of positions valued. Non-subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily related to certain advisory, pricing conferences and events, and analytical services. Ratings Ratings is an independent provider of credit ratings, research, and analytics, offering investors and other market participants information, ratings and benchmarks. Credit ratings are one of several tools investors can use when making decisions about purchasing bonds and other fixed income investments. They are opinions about credit risk and our ratings express our opinion about the ability and willingness of an issuer, such as a corporation or state or city government, to meet its financial obligations in full and on time. Our credit ratings can also relate to the credit quality of an individual debt issue, such as a corporate or municipal bond, and the relative likelihood that the issue may default. With offices in over 25 countries around the world, Ratings is an important part of the world s financial infrastructure and has played a leading role for over 150 years in providing investors with information and independent benchmarks for their investment and financial decisions as well as access to the capital markets. The key constituents Ratings serves are investors, corporations, governments, municipalities, commercial and investment banks, insurance companies, asset managers, and other debt issuers. As the capital markets continue to evolve, Ratings is well-positioned to capitalize on opportunities, driven by continuing regulatory changes, through its global network, well-established position in corporate markets and strong investor reputation. Ratings disaggregates its revenue between transaction and non-transaction. Transaction revenue primarily includes fees associated with: ratings related to new issuance of corporate and government debt instruments, as well as structured finance debt instruments; and bank loan ratings. Non-transaction revenue primarily includes fees for surveillance of a credit rating, annual fees for customer relationship-based pricing programs, fees for entity credit ratings and global research and analytics at CRISIL. Commodity Insights Commodity Insights is a leading independent provider of information and benchmark prices for the commodity and energy markets. Commodity Insights provides essential price data, analytics, industry insights and software services, enabling the commodity and energy markets to perform with greater transparency and efficiency. Key customers served by Commodity Insights include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, petrochemicals, metals steel and agriculture. Commodity Insights includes the following business lines: Energy Resources Data Insights includes data, news, insights, and analytics for petroleum, gas, power renewables, petrochemicals, metals steel, agriculture, and other commodities; Price Assessments includes price assessments and benchmarks, and forward curves; Upstream Data Insights includes exploration production data and insights, software and analytics; and Advisory Transactional Services includes consulting services, conferences, events and global trading services. Commodity Insights revenue is generated primarily through the following sources: Subscription revenue primarily from subscriptions to our market data and market insights (price assessments, market reports and commentary and analytics) along with other information products and software term licenses; Sales usage-based royalties primarily from licensing our proprietary market price data and price assessments to commodity exchanges; and Non-subscription revenue conference sponsorship, consulting engagements, events, and perpetual software licenses. 7 Table of Contents Mobility Mobility is a leading provider of solutions serving the full automotive value chain including vehicle manufacturers (OEMs), automotive suppliers, mobility service providers, retailers, consumers, and finance and insurance companies. Mobility includes the following business lines: Dealer includes analytics to predict future buyers, targeted marketing, and vehicle history data to allow people to shop, buy, service and sell used cars; Manufacturing includes insights, forecasts and advisory services spanning the entire automotive value chain, from product planning to marketing, sales and the aftermarket; and Financial includes reports and data feeds to support lenders and insurance companies . Mobility s revenue is generated primarily through the following sources: Subscription revenue Mobility s core information products provide critical information and insights to all global OEMs, most of the world s leading suppliers, and the majority of North American dealerships. Mobility operates across both the new and used car markets. Mobility provides data and insight on future vehicles sales and production, including detailed forecasts on technology and vehicle components; supplies car makers and dealers with market reporting products, predictive analytics and marketing automation software; and supports dealers with vehicle history reports, used car listings and service retention solutions. Mobility also sells a range of services to financial institutions, to support their marketing, insurance underwriting and claims management activities; and Non-subscription revenue One-time transactional sales of data that are non-cyclical in nature and that are usually tied to underlying business metrics such as OEM marketing spend or safety recall activity as well as consulting and advisory services. Indices Indices is a global index provider maintaining a wide variety of valuation and index benchmarks for investment advisors, wealth managers and institutional investors. Indices mission is to provide transparent benchmarks to help with decision making, collaborate with the financial community to create innovative products, and provide investors with tools to monitor world markets. Indices derives revenue from asset-linked fees when investors direct funds into its proprietary designed or owned indexes, sales-usage based royalties of its indices, as well as data subscription arrangements. Specifically, Indices generates revenue from the following sources: Investment vehicles asset-linked fees such as ETFs and mutual funds, that are based on the S P Dow Jones Indices benchmarks that generate revenue through fees based on assets and underlying funds; Exchange traded derivatives generate sales usage-based royalties based on trading volumes of derivatives contracts listed on various exchanges; Index-related licensing fees fixed or variable annual and per-issue asset-linked fees for over-the-counter derivatives and retail-structured products; and Data and customized index subscription fees fees from supporting index fund management, portfolio analytics and research. 8 Table of Contents Engineering Solutions As of May 2, 2023, we completed the sale of Engineering Solutions, a provider of engineering standards and related technical knowledge, and the results are included through that date. Engineering Solutions included our Product Design offerings that provide technical professionals with the information and insight required to more effectively design products, optimize engineering projects and outcomes, solve technical problems and address complex supply chain issues. Our offerings utilized advanced knowledge discovery technologies, research tools, and software-based engineering decision engines to advance innovation, maximize productivity, improve quality and reduce risk. Engineering Solutions revenue was generated primarily through the following sources: Subscription revenue primarily from subscriptions to our Product Design offerings providing standards, codes and specifications; applied technical reference; engineering journals, reports, best practices, and other vetted technical reference; and patents and patent applications, which includes Engineering Workbench; Goldfire s cognitive search and other advanced knowledge discovery capabilities that help pinpoint answers buried in enterprise systems and unstructured data enabling engineers and technical professionals to accelerate problem solving; and Non-subscription revenue primarily from retail transaction and consulting services. Segment and Geographic Data The relative contribution of our reportable segments to operating revenue, operating profit, long-lived assets and geographic area for the three years ended December 31, 2023 are included in Note 12 Segment and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Human Capital As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 40,450 permanent employees located worldwide, including around 22,450 in Asia, 11,550 in the U.S. and Canada, 5,600 in Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and 850 in Latin America. We invest in our success as a global Company by investing in our employees across the world through our people first approach to human capital management, aimed at supporting everyone who works for us to reach their full potential. Board Oversight Management Implementation of Human Capital Strategy Our Board of Directors and Company management view effective human capital management as critical to the Company s ability to execute its strategy. 9 Table of Contents As a result, the Board of Directors and the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee oversee and regularly engage with our CEO, Chief Purpose Officer, Chief Corporate Responsibility Diversity Officer and other members of senior leadership on a broad range of people topics, including: culture and purpose; talent attraction and development; succession planning; compensation and benefits; diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI"); workplace health, safety and well-being; and employee engagement and retention. At the management level, our Chief Purpose Officer is responsible for leading the development and execution of the Company s human capital management strategy, also referred to as our People strategy, working together with other senior leaders across the Company. Among other things, this includes promoting an inclusive and performance-driven workplace culture with equitable opportunity for all; managing the Company s initiatives to attract, develop, engage and retain the high-quality talent needed to ensure the Company is equipped with the right skillsets and intellectual capital to deliver on current and future business needs; and overseeing the design of the Company s compensation, benefits and well-being programs. In connection with these responsibilities, the Chief Purpose Officer also partners with our Corporate Responsibility Diversity, Equity Inclusion team on the development and execution of the Company s diversity, equity and inclusion roadmap and works closely with the CEO on executive succession planning and development of the talent succession pipeline for the Company s Executive Committee. The Company s short-term incentive plan further reflects the significant role our people play in driving our enterprise strategy to Power Global Markets by linking executive pay outcomes under our enterprise and division balanced scorecards to the achievement of strategic people priorities. In 2023, we focused on delivering on the following strategic People priorities across the enterprise: Delivered a new, biennial, enterprise experience (Accelerate Progress LIVE: Lead with Purpose) to further connect with our Company s purpose and reflect on and celebrate the many ways purpose comes to life Encourage career mobility and career development through career coaching and Thrive, our performance management experience Improve diverse representation through hiring, advancement and retention, while continuing to raise awareness through DEI education Attract and retain our people through recognition programs, learning opportunities, and fair compensation To achieve our strategic people objectives, we support our employees through human capital management strategies that include diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives; learning and development programs; competitive compensation and benefits programs; hybrid work, benefits and well-being programs; and talent attraction, retention and engagement. Examples of some of our key initiatives and programs in these focus areas are included below. Diversity, Equity Inclusion Our ability to attract and retain a diverse and inclusive workforce is critical to our long-term strategy, driving business growth and innovation and empowering our people to achieve their full potential. In connection with our commitment to create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace, we remain committed to fostering an environment where our people can bring their whole selves to work: Under the leadership of our Chief Purpose Officer, our enterprise DEI strategy is executed globally and addresses the local, regional and global needs of our workforce. In partnership with the Executive Committee, regular updates are provided to align on strategy and prioritization, and to improve connectivity and create a defined and well-coordinated feedback loop between the Company s Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, DEI team, People Resource Groups and people leaders. We measure progress on our diversity, equity and inclusion programs as part of our enterprise and division balanced scorecards, which are reviewed by the CEO quarterly and the Board at least biannually. These metrics are linked to short-term incentive compensation and help increase accountability for our DEI progress. Key performance indicators include measuring the net change in the gender and racial/ethnic diversity of the Company s employee population. Additionally, we track and monitor employee sentiments on DEI through the annual VIBE employee engagement survey entitled VIBE. We connect colleagues across our organization through our People Resource Groups (PRGs). These global, employee-led networks offer career experiences and network-building opportunities that foster professional development and support workplace diversity. United by intersectionality and shared purpose, our nine PRGs also provide community for our people across diverse backgrounds. To both attract and retain our pipeline of diverse talent, we have expanded our outreach and recruiting partnerships with associations and industry groups, select Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic 10 Table of Contents Serving Institutions (HSIs). We have enhanced our training globally to incorporate awareness of unconscious bias and inclusion, and expanded career mentoring and leadership development opportunities for diverse colleagues. Learning and Development Programs We support our employees in pursuing their professional goals with growing investments in personalized development. We provide a wide array of global training and learning programs to help employees expand their knowledge, skills and experience and guide career advancement, including: Technology Training - We offer internal technology training programs to enhance the technology skills of our workforce and accelerate our ability to solve complex problems using a multidisciplinary blend of data inference, algorithm development and technology education for all employees. Career Coaching - We offer a career coaching program, providing customized support through global career coaches, to empower people to take ownership of their career and help them navigate their career path and opportunities to grow within the Company. This approach to empower our people in their careers aligns to our performance management philosophy and processes and is reinforced across our suite of learning programs. Leadership Development - We invest in developing leaders at all levels of our organization through targeted programs designed to foster leadership excellence in people managers, develop emerging leaders and strengthen our executive talent bench, providing a robust internal succession pipeline for our Executive Committee. These programs use a variety of engagement types including in-person immersions, virtual cohorts, and self-guided on demand exercises. Learning for All We have a centralized learning team that hosts personal and professional upskilling courses, available to all our people across the enterprise and in a variety of formats. These offerings complement the efforts of our divisional and functional learning teams that provide product, client, and role-based skills training specific to their areas. Team Development Our teams are at the heart of what we do at S P Global, so we offer support and resources to help them stay connected with one another, navigate change, and continue to produce high-quality work. We lead a variety of workshops focused on building and maintaining effective teams. Competitive Compensation Programs We believe compensation and recognition programs are critical to the overall people experience. Offering market competitive, people-centric and performance-driven compensation is key to our recruitment, talent management and retention strategies. As a result, management regularly assesses employee feedback, competitor research, and market data to ensure our programs remain competitive, equitable, and are designed with our people s financial and social well-being in mind. Based on these insights, each year we continue to introduce new and enhanced people first capabilities in support of our philosophy. Our compensation program consists of a mix of: Annual Salary where base pay is determined by role, scope, external market rate and internal parity relative to geographic location. Recognizes level of proficiency and skill exhibited as compared to role requirements. Annual Bonus as a cash reward acting as our main pay-for-performance vehicle through annual programs. Recognizes achievement against individual, team, and group performance. Equity awards for our strategic leaders acknowledging achievements of individual and organizational goals typically in recognition of contributions that positively influence strategic growth, operational alignment, and product innovation. In 2023 we continued broadened initiatives to increase pay transparency, empowering our people leaders to manage pay conversations in an effort to continue attracting and retaining top talent. Hybrid Work, Benefits, and Well-being The health, safety and well-being of our people working around the globe is a top priority, and our facilities worldwide follow rigorous, internally and externally audited, occupational health and safety policies. In early 2023, most of our employees remained working from home and we introduced a new flexible return to office model via a phased approach called anchor-flex. This model was not mandated as a full return, rather defining regular days our people might be in the office and those where they would work virtually. Throughout, we continued to promote health, safety and the welfare of our people. 2023 facility upgrades include: snack and fruit options offered free of charge at all our global locations with healthful choices in mind; menstruation products provided free of charge at all locations; upgrades to nursing/wellness rooms, including hospital-grade Medela pump available in each office nursing room, as well as fridge, dimmable lighting, mirror, disinfectant wipes, and 11 Table of Contents hand moisturizer; enhancements to prayer, contemplation and wellness rooms to include carpets, locks, storage (cubicles, racks, or cabinet), and updated signage to include multiple uses. In November 2023, we announced an update to our global guidelines on working in the office, so people aligned to an office are expected to come in at least 2 days per week or 9 days per month starting January 2024. We provided a two months transition period and a host of resources to help people plan for the transition and any adjustments they would need to make including dependent care, commuting, or other arrangements. Recognizing that there will be circumstances and obligations that make virtual work a necessity for some of our people, we continue to offer the option of all-hybrid work for certain roles. In 2024, we will introduce a flexible summer month, during which we will relax the expectation for in-office days. We focus on the well-being of our people aligned to our people first philosophy through expansion of our benefits offerings globally: Recharge, flexible and unlimited time off to balance work and life in order to maximize the effectiveness of both. Parental leave of 26 weeks to bond with new arrivals. 10 days of paid leave per calendar year to care for a close relative or loved one who has a serious illness or health condition. Sick leave for a minimum of 10 business days or local statutory timeframe. Flexible paid compassion leave following the loss of a loved one, based on individual needs and circumstances. Three months pay to family members following the loss of an employee. Expanded paid compassion leave to include pregnancy loss and loss of a pet. Global Cancer Support secures the salary of any employee unable to work due to a diagnosis of cancer or other chronic disease or serious illness for up to one year, so they can stay focused on their treatment and recovery. We offer well-being programs that enrich work-life experiences and help our people prioritize their mental, physical, financial, and social well-being. Some of our inclusive benefits include: Well-being Program support and resources focused on physical and mental well-being including fitness classes, mental health programs, and education on topics such as Mental Health, Preventative Health, Family Issues, DEI, and Professional Skills Development. Well-being Reimbursement of team members for well-being-related activities, providing the flexibility for team members to decide how to use their well-being reimbursement to meet their specific wellness needs. Financial well-being reimbursement for financial, tax, and estate planning. Enhanced Reproductive Wellness options including: Maven Parental Support to help improve parental health outcomes through equitable care with holistic, clinical support and coaching for pregnant employees and their partners. Maven Expressed Milk Shipping to help parents transition back to work by providing for the delivery of expressed milk home to baby. Fertility IQ/Menopause IQ: Provides premier, on-demand digital education globally to support family building (Fertility IQ) and menopause topics (Menopause IQ). Educational Support Policy Student Loan Reimbursement: Subject to course of study, the Company will reimburse previously-approved tuition, registration/program fees and course-related books up to the country-specific amount. The Company will match the amount an employee has been reimbursed for further education with an equal amount for a current student loan. The sum of both amounts cannot exceed the country-specific annual maximum. Retention and Engagement In order to attract and retain the high-quality talent needed to execute our long-term strategy of Powering Global Markets, we believe it is critical for our people to feel motivated and empowered. As a result, we strive to create a unified and inclusive workplace culture that promotes employee engagement, satisfaction, and performance; and that reflects our common corporate purpose and values. In December 2023, we hosted Accelerate Progress LIVE: Lead with Purpose, an enterprise-wide event exploring our company purpose, how our people contribute, and its impact on our customers. This was the first of its kind event for the Company and was bookended with support for our leaders to reinforce the key messages. 12 Table of Contents We invite employee feedback through a variety of channels for open communication and engagement, including small group employee round-table discussions with our business leaders and members of our Board of Directors, our annual VIBE employee engagement survey, as well as more frequent check-ins through employee Pulse surveys. The annual VIBE survey allows us to track progress in critical areas, such as workplace pride and satisfaction and inclusive culture, and gather actionable insights for improvements to our people strategy. We encourage managers to share VIBE survey results with their teams, prioritize action areas and pursue solutions. To reinforce management accountability, we also track employee survey scores in our enterprise and division balanced scorecards, with outcomes against survey engagement targets impacting short-term incentive outcomes. Available Information S P Global s investor relations website provides access to Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Proxy Statements, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, earnings releases and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. For online access, go to http://investor.spglobal.com. Requests for printed copies, free of charge, can be e-mailed to investor.relations@spglobal.com or mailed to Investor Relations, S P Global Inc., 55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041-0001. Interested parties can also call Investor Relations toll-free at 866-436-8502 (domestic callers) or 212-438-2192 (international callers). The information on