Item 1. Business Overview S P Global Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company, the Registrant, we, us or our ) is a leading provider of transparent and independent ratings, benchmarks, analytics and data to the capital and commodity markets worldwide. The capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms and issuers; and the commodity markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, petrochemicals, metals and agriculture. We serve our global customers through a broad range of products and services available through both third-party and proprietary distribution channels. We were incorporated in December of 1925 under the laws of the state of New York. Our Businesses Our operations consist of four reportable segments: S P Global Ratings ("Ratings"), S P Global Market Intelligence ("Market Intelligence"), S P Global Platts ("Platts") and S P Dow Jones Indices ("Indices"). For a discussion on the competitive conditions and regulatory environment associated with our businesses, see MD A Segment Review contained in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Merger Agreement In November of 2020, S P Global and IHS Markit Ltd ("IHS Markit") entered into a merger agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, a subsidiary of S P Global will merge with and into IHS Markit, with IHS Markit surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of S P Global. Under the terms of the merger agreement, each share of IHS Markit issued and outstanding (other than excluded shares and dissenting shares) will be converted into the right to receive 0.2838 fully paid and nonassessable shares of S P Global common stock (and, if applicable, cash in lieu of fractional shares, without interest), less any applicable withholding taxes. On March 11, 2021, S P Global and IHS Markit shareholders voted to approve the merger agreement. As of December 31, 2021, IHS Markit had approximately 399.1 million shares outstanding. Subject to certain closing conditions, the merger is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2022. Ratings Ratings is an independent provider of credit ratings, research, and analytics, offering investors and other market participants information, ratings and benchmarks. Credit ratings are one of several tools investors can use when making decisions about purchasing bonds and other fixed income investments. They are opinions about credit risk and our ratings express our opinion about the ability and willingness of an issuer, such as a corporation or state or city government, to meet its financial obligations in full and on time. Our credit ratings can also relate to the credit quality of an individual debt issue, such as a corporate or municipal bond, and the relative likelihood that the issue may default. With offices in over 25 countries around the world, Ratings is an important part of the world's financial infrastructure and has played a leading role for over 150 years in providing investors with information and independent benchmarks for their investment and financial decisions as well as access to the capital markets. The key constituents Ratings serves are investors, corporations, governments, municipalities, commercial and investment banks, insurance companies, asset managers, and other debt issuers. As the capital markets continue to evolve, Ratings is well-positioned to capitalize on opportunities, driven by continuing regulatory changes, through its global network, well-established position in corporate markets and strong investor reputation. Ratings disaggregates its revenue between transaction and non-transaction. Transaction revenue primarily includes fees associated with: ratings related to new issuance of corporate and government debt instruments, as well as structured finance debt instruments; and bank loan ratings. Non-transaction revenue primarily includes fees for surveillance of a credit rating, annual fees for customer relationship-based pricing programs, fees for entity credit ratings and global research and analytics at CRISIL. 6 Table of Contents Market Intelligence Market Intelligence's portfolio of capabilities are designed to help investment professionals, government agencies, corporations and universities track performance, generate alpha, identify investment ideas, understand competitive and industry dynamics, perform evaluations and assess credit risk. Key customers served by Market Intelligence include investment managers, investment banks, private equity firms, insurance companies, commercial banks, corporations, professional services firms, government agencies and regulators. Market Intelligence includes the following business lines: Desktop a product suite that provides data, analytics and third-party research for global finance professionals, which includes the Market Intelligence Desktop (which are inclusive of the S P Capital IQ and SNL Desktop products); Data Management Solutions integrated bulk data feeds and application programming interfaces that can be customized, which includes Compustat, GICS, Point In Time Financials; and Credit Risk Solutions commercial arm that sells Ratings' credit ratings and related data, analytics and research, which includes subscription-based offerings, RatingsDirect and RatingsXpress ; and Credit Analytics. Subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily derived from distribution of data, analytics, third-party research, and credit ratings-related information primarily through web-based channels, including Market Intelligence Desktop, RatingsDirect , RatingsXpress , and Credit Analytics. Non-subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily related to certain advisory, pricing and analytical services. Platts Platts is the leading independent provider of information and benchmark prices for the commodity and energy markets. Platts provides essential price data, analytics, and industry insight enabling the commodity and energy markets to perform with greater transparency and efficiency. Key customers served by Platts include producers, traders and intermediaries within the energy, petrochemicals, metals and agriculture markets. Platts' revenue is generated primarily through the following sources: Subscription revenue primarily from subscriptions to our market data and market insights (price assessments, market reports and commentary and analytics) along with other information products; Sales usage-based royalties primarily from licensing of our proprietary market price data and price assessments to commodity exchanges; and Non-subscription revenue conference sponsorship, consulting engagements, and events. Indices Indices is a global index provider maintaining a wide variety of indices to meet an array of investor needs. Indices mission is to provide transparent benchmarks to help with decision making, collaborate with the financial community to create innovative products and provide investors with tools to monitor world markets. Indices derives revenue from asset-linked fees when investors direct funds into its proprietary designed or owned indexes, sales-usage royalties of its indices, and to a lesser extent data subscription arrangements. Specifically, Indices generates revenue from the following sources: Investment vehicles asset-linked fees such as exchange traded funds ( ETFs ) and mutual funds, that are based on the S P Dow Jones Indices' benchmarks that generate revenue through fees based on assets and underlying funds; Exchange traded derivatives generate sales usage-based royalties based on trading volumes of derivatives contracts listed on various exchanges; Index-related licensing fees fixed or variable annual and per-issue asset-linked fees for over-the-counter derivatives and retail-structured products; and Data and customized index subscription fees fees from supporting index fund management, portfolio analytics and research. 7 Table of Contents Segment and Geographic Data The relative contribution of our reportable segments to operating revenue, operating profit, long-lived assets and geographic area for the three years ended December 31, 2021 are included in Note 12 Segment and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 22,850 permanent employees located worldwide, including around 14,600 in Asia, 5,300 in the U.S., 2,150 in the European region, and 800 in the rest of the world. We invest in our success as a global Company by investing in our employees across the world through our people first approach to human capital management, aimed at supporting everyone who works for us to reach their full potential. Board Oversight Management Implementation of Human Capital Strategy Our Board of Directors and Company management view effective human capital management as critical to the Company s ability to execute its strategy. As a result, the Board of Directors and the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee oversee and regularly engage with our CEO, Chief Purpose Officer, Chief Corporate Responsibility Diversity Officer and other members of senior leadership on a broad range of people topics, including: culture and purpose; talent attraction and development; succession planning; compensation and benefits; diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI"); workplace health, safety and well-being; and employee engagement and retention . At the management level, our Chief Purpose Officer is responsible for leading the development and execution of the Company s human capital management strategy, also referred to as our People strategy, working together with other senior leaders across the Company. Among other things, this includes promoting an inclusive and performance-driven workplace culture with equitable opportunity for all; managing the Company s initiatives to attract, develop, engage and retain the high-quality talent needed to ensure S P Global is equipped with the right skillsets and intellectual capital to deliver on current and future business needs; and overseeing the design of the Company s compensation, benefits and well-being programs. In connection with these responsibilities, the Chief Purpose Officer also partners with our Corporate Responsibility Diversity, Equity Inclusion team on the development and execution of the Company s diversity, equity and inclusion roadmap and works closely with the CEO on executive succession planning and development of the talent succession pipeline for the Company s Operating Committee. The Company s short-term incentive plan further reflects the significant role our people play in driving our enterprise strategy to Power the Markets of the Future by linking executive pay outcomes under our enterprise and division balanced scorecards to the achievement of strategic people priorities . In 2021, we focused on delivering on the following strategic People priorities across the enterprise: Continuing to foster a people first environment, while maintaining existing levels of engagement; 8 Table of Contents Encouraging career mobility through career coaching, while attracting and retaining the best people; and Improving diverse representation through talent acquisition, advancement and retention, while continuing to raise awareness of racial education. To achieve our strategic people objectives, we support our employees through human capital management strategies that include diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives; learning and development programs; competitive compensation and benefits programs; workplace health, safety and well-being measures; and talent attraction, retention and engagement. Examples of some of our key initiatives and programs in these focus areas are included below. Diversity, Equity Inclusion Our ability to attract and retain a diverse and inclusive workforce is critical to our long-term strategy, driving business growth and innovation and empowering our people to achieve their full potential. In connection with our commitment to create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace, we have taken the following steps to foster an environment where our people can bring their whole selves to work: An executive DEI Council, co-chaired by our CEO and Chief Purpose Officer, directs and oversees our enterprise-wide DEI strategy, advancing and ensuring coordination and accountability for DEI programs across the organization. In 2021, we also designed a new and improved DEI governance model for the larger combined organization following the close of the merger with IHS Markit to align on strategy and prioritization; improve connectivity and create a defined and well-coordinated feedback loop between the Company s Board of Directors, the executive DEI Council, Employee Resource Groups and People leaders; and enhance accountability. We measure progress on our diversity, equity and inclusion programs as part of our enterprise and division balanced scorecards, which are reviewed by the CEO quarterly and the Board at least biannually, and impact short-term incentive compensation. Key Performance Indicators under our incentive scorecards for tracking and ensuring accountability for DEI progress include measuring the net change in the gender and racial/ethnic diversity of the S P Global employee population and DEI specific sentiment through the annual VIBE employee engagement survey. We connect colleagues across our organization through our Employee Resource Groups. These global and employee-led networks offer career experiences and network-building opportunities that foster professional development and support workplace diversity. To improve our pipeline of diverse talent, we have expanded our partnerships in diverse talent recruitment with select Historically Black Colleges and Universities, upgraded interview training to incorporate awareness of unconscious bias, and expanded career mentoring and leadership development opportunities for diverse colleagues. Learning and Development Programs We support our employees in pursuing their professional goals with growing investments in personalized development. We provide a wide array of global training and learning programs to help employees expand their knowledge, skills and experience and guide career advancement, including: Technology Training - We offer internal technology training programs to enhance the technology skills of our workforce and accelerate our ability to solve complex problems using a multidisciplinary blend of data inference, algorithm development and technology education for all employees. Career Coaching - We launched a career coaching program, offering customized support through global career coaches, to empower people to take ownership of their career and help them navigate their career path and opportunities to grow within S P Global. Leadership Development - We invest in developing leaders at all levels of our organization through targeted programs designed to foster leadership excellence in new people managers, develop emerging leaders and strengthen our executive talent bench, providing a robust internal succession pipeline for our Operating Committee. Competitive Compensation and Benefits Programs We believe compensation and benefits programs are critical to the overall employee experience. Offering market competitive, people-centric and performance-driven compensation and benefits is key to our recruitment, talent management and retention strategies. As a result, management regularly assesses employee feedback, competitor research and market data to ensure our programs remain competitive and are designed with our people s physical, financial, work-life, mental and emotional health and 9 Table of Contents well-being in mind. Based on these insights, each year we continue to introduce new and enhanced people first benefits to advance employees well-being at work and beyond in support of our people first philosophy. In 2021, we launched new initiatives to increase transparency around pay decisions and empower colleagues to initiate pay conversations and to enhance well-being support for our people by providing extended parental leave, more flexible time-off arrangements and wellness days. Workplace Health, Safety and Well-being The health, safety and well-being of our people working around the globe is a top priority, and our facilities worldwide follow rigorous, internally and externally audited, occupational health and safety policies. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we established a steering committee to lead a coordinated workplace safety strategy and acted quickly implementing significant changes across the organization to protect our people and the communities in which we operate. In early 2021, most of our employees remained working from home and our plans to introduce a new flexible return to office model and phased approach to office re-openings evolved in response to changing dynamics throughout the year. Informed by guidance from our Chief Medical Officer and close partnership between Global Security and local site leaders to propose changes as needed, we continued to promote health, safety and well-being by providing updated guidance, expanded benefits and support services to help our people navigate remote work and the ongoing pandemic, including: 30 business days global care leave while caring for a sick or healthy family member during COVID-19 and mandated work from home guidance; 10 paid business days minimum global sick leave while being treated for COVID-19; unlimited paid compassion leave following loss of a loved one; three months pay to family members following loss of an employee; flexible arrangements for those working from home while caring for family; expanded telemedicine resources and mental health support services; and townhalls and a dedicated microsite to provide ongoing guidance and support for homeworking logistics. Retention and Engagement In order to attract and retain the high-quality talent needed to execute our long-term strategy to Power the Markets of the Future, we believe it is critical for our people to feel motivated and empowered. As a result, we strive to create a unified and inclusive workplace culture that promotes employee engagement, satisfaction and performance; and that reflects our common corporate purpose and values. We invite employee feedback through a variety of channels for open communication and engagement, including small group employee round-table discussions with our business leaders and members of our Board of Directors, our annual VIBE employee engagement survey, as well as more frequent check-ins through employee Pulse surveys. The annual VIBE survey allows us to track progress in critical areas, such as workplace pride and satisfaction and inclusive culture, and gather actionable insights for improvements to our people strategy. We encourage managers to share VIBE survey results with their teams, prioritize action areas and pursue solutions. To reinforce management accountability, we also track employee survey scores in our enterprise and division balanced scorecards, with outcomes against survey engagement targets impacting short-term incentive outcomes. Available Information S P Global's investor relations website provides access to Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Proxy Statements, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, earnings releases and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. For online access, go to http://investor.spglobal.com. Requests for printed copies, free of charge, can be e-mailed to investor.relations@spglobal.com or mailed to Investor Relations, S P Global Inc., 55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041-0001. Interested parties can also call Investor Relations toll-free at 866-436-8502 (domestic callers) or 212-438-2192 (international callers). The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Access to more than 10 years of the Company's filings made with the SEC is available through the Company's Investor Relations website. Go to http://investor.spglobal.com and click on the SEC Filings link. In addition, these filings are available to the public on the Commission's website through their EDGAR filing system at www.sec.gov. Please call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further assistance. 10 Table of Contents