Item 1. Business Overview S P Global Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company, the Registrant, we, us or our ) is a leading provider of transparent and independent ratings, benchmarks, analytics and data to the capital and commodity markets worldwide. The capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms and issuers; and the commodity markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, petrochemicals and agriculture. We serve our global customers through a broad range of products and services available through both third-party and proprietary distribution channels. We were incorporated in December of 1925 under the laws of the state of New York. Our Businesses Our operations consist of four reportable segments: S P Global Ratings ("Ratings"), S P Global Market Intelligence ("Market Intelligence"), S P Global Platts ("Platts") and S P Dow Jones Indices ("Indices"). For a discussion on the competitive conditions in our businesses, see MD A Segment Review contained in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, the contract obligations for revenue from Kensho Technologies Inc. s ( Kensho ) major customers were transferred to Market Intelligence for fulfillment. As a result of this transfer, from January 1, 2019 revenue from contracts with Kensho s customers is reflected in Market Intelligence s results. In 2018, the revenue from contracts with Kensho s customers was reported in Corporate revenue. See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Ratings Ratings is an independent provider of credit ratings, research and analytics to investors, issuers and other market participants. Credit ratings are one of several tools investors can use when making decisions about purchasing bonds and other fixed income investments. They are opinions about credit risk and our ratings express our opinion about the ability and willingness of an issuer, such as a corporation or state or city government, to meet its financial obligations in full and on time. Our credit ratings can also relate to the credit quality of an individual debt issue, such as a corporate or municipal bond, and the relative likelihood that the debt issue may default. With offices in over 25 countries around the world, Ratings is an important part of the world's financial infrastructure and has played a leading role for over 150 years in providing investors with information and independent benchmarks for their investment and financial decisions as well as access to the capital markets. The key constituents Ratings serves are investors, corporations, governments, municipalities, commercial and investment banks, insurance companies, asset managers, and other debt issuers. As the capital markets continue to evolve, Ratings is well-positioned to capitalize on opportunities, driven by continuing regulatory changes, through its global network, well-established position in corporate markets and strong investor reputation. Ratings disaggregates its revenue between transaction and non-transaction. Transaction revenue primarily includes fees associated with: ratings related to new issuance of corporate and government debt instruments, as well as structured finance debt instruments; bank loan ratings; and corporate credit estimates, which are intended, based on an abbreviated analysis, to provide an indication of our opinion regarding creditworthiness of a company which does not currently have a Ratings credit rating. Non-transaction revenue primarily includes fees for surveillance of a credit rating, annual fees for customer relationship-based pricing programs, fees for entity credit ratings and global research and analytics at CRISIL. Market Intelligence Market Intelligence's portfolio of capabilities are designed to help investment professionals, government agencies, corporations and universities track performance, generate alpha, identify investment ideas, understand competitive and industry dynamics, perform evaluations and assess credit risk. Key customers served by Market Intelligence include investment managers, investment 6 Table of Contents banks, private equity firms, insurance companies, commercial banks, corporations, professional services firms, government agencies and regulators. Market Intelligence includes the following business lines: Desktop a product suite that provides data, analytics and third-party research for global finance professionals, which includes the Market Intelligence Desktop (which are inclusive of the S P Capital IQ and SNL Desktop products); Data Management Solutions integrated bulk data feeds and application programming interfaces that can be customized, which includes Compustat, GICS, Point In Time Financials and CUSIP; and Credit Risk Solutions commercial arm that sells Ratings' credit ratings and related data, analytics and research, which includes subscription-based offerings, RatingsDirect and RatingsXpress ; and Credit Analytics. Subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily derived from distribution of data, analytics, third-party research, and credit ratings-related information primarily through web-based channels, including Market Intelligence Desktop, RatingsDirect , RatingsXpress , and Credit Analytics. Non-subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily related to certain advisory, pricing and analytical services. Platts Platts is the leading independent provider of information and benchmark prices for the commodity and energy markets. Platts provides essential price data, analytics, and industry insight enabling the commodity and energy markets to perform with greater transparency and efficiency. Key customers served by Platts include producers, traders and intermediaries within the energy, petrochemicals, metals and agriculture markets. Platts' revenue is generated primarily through the following sources: Subscription revenue primarily from subscriptions to our real-time news, market data and price assessments, along with other information products; Sales usage-based royalties primarily from licensing of our proprietary market price data and price assessments to commodity exchanges; and Non-subscription revenue conference sponsorship, consulting engagements, and events. Indices Indices is a global index provider maintaining a wide variety of indices to meet an array of investor needs. Indices mission is to provide transparent benchmarks to help with decision making, collaborate with the financial community to create innovative products, and provide investors with tools to monitor world markets. Indices primarily derives revenue from asset-linked fees based on the S P and Dow Jones indices and to a lesser extent generates subscription revenue and transaction revenue. Specifically, Indices generates revenue from the following sources: Investment vehicles asset-linked fees such as exchange traded funds ( ETFs ) and mutual funds, that are based on S P Dow Jones Indices' benchmarks that generate revenue through fees based on assets and underlying funds; Exchange traded derivatives generate sales usage-based royalties based on trading volumes of derivatives contracts listed on various exchanges; Index-related licensing fees fixed or variable annual and per-issue asset-linked fees for over-the-counter derivatives and retail-structured products; and Data and customized index subscription fees fees from supporting index fund management, portfolio analytics and research. Segment and Geographic Data The relative contribution of our reportable segments to operating revenue, operating profit, long-lived assets and geographic area for the three years ended December 31, 2019 are included in Note 12 Segment and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 7 Table of Contents Our Personnel As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 22,500 employees located worldwide, of which approximately 5,500 were employed in the U.S. Available Information The Company's investor kit includes Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Proxy Statements, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, the current earnings release and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. For online access, go to http://investor.spglobal.com. Requests for printed copies, free of charge, can be e-mailed to investor.relations@spglobal.com or mailed to Investor Relations, S P Global Inc., 55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041-0001. Interested parties can also call Investor Relations toll-free at 866-436-8502 (domestic callers) or 212-438-2192 (international callers). The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Access to more than 10 years of the Company's filings made with the SEC is available through the Company's Investor Relations website. Go to http://investor.spglobal.com and click on the SEC Filings link. In addition, these filings are available to the public on the Commission's website through their EDGAR filing system at www.sec.gov. Interested parties may also read and copy materials that the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10AM and 3PM. Please call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.