Item 1. Business 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 56 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 56 Item 2. Properties 57 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 57 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 57 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 58 Item 6. (Reserved) 59 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 59 Overview 59 Results of Operations by Registrant 60 Capital Resources and Liquidity 78 Critical Accounting Estimates 95 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 99 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 101 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 102 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 102 Item 9B. Other Information 106 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 106 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 108 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 108 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 109 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 120 Signatures 121 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Index to Condensed Financial Information of Parent S-1 This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by Sempra, San Diego Gas Electric Company and Southern California Gas Company. Information contained herein relating to any one of these individual Registrants is filed by such entity on its own behalf. Each such Registrant makes statements herein only as to itself and its consolidated entities and makes no statement whatsoever as to any other entity. You should read this report in its entirety as it pertains to each respective Registrant. No one section of the report deals with all aspects of the subject matter. A separate Part II Item 8 is provided for each Registrant, except for the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are combined for all the Registrants. All Items other than Part II Item 8 are combined for the three Registrants. 2023 Form 10-K | 4 Table of Contents The following terms and abbreviations appearing in this report have the meanings indicated below. GLOSSARY AB California Assembly Bill ADIA Black Silverback ZC 2022 LP (assignee of Black River B 2017 Inc.), a wholly owned affiliate of Abu Dhabi Investment Authority AFUDC allowance for funds used during construction amparo an extraordinary constitutional appeal governed by Articles 103 and 107 of the Mexican Constitution and filed in Mexican federal court AOCI accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ARO asset retirement obligation ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASEA Agencia de Seguridad, Energ a y Ambiente (Mexico s National Agency for Industrial Safety and Environmental Protection) ASR accelerated share repurchase ASU Accounting Standards Update Bcf billion cubic feet Bechtel Bechtel Energy Inc. bps basis points Cameron LNG JV Cameron LNG Holdings, LLC Cameron LNG Phase 1 facility Cameron LNG JV liquefaction facility Cameron LNG Phase 2 project Cameron LNG JV liquefaction expansion project CARB California Air Resources Board CCA Community Choice Aggregation CCM cost of capital adjustment mechanism CEC California Energy Commission CFE Comisi n Federal de Electricidad (Mexico s Federal Electricity Commission) CFIN Cameron LNG FINCO, LLC, a wholly owned and unconsolidated affiliate of Cameron LNG JV CNBV Comisi n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (Mexico s National Banking and Securities Commission) CODM chief operating decision maker as defined in ASC 280 ConocoPhillips ConocoPhillips Company COVID-19 coronavirus disease 2019 CPUC California Public Utilities Commission CRE Comisi n Reguladora de Energ a (Mexico s Energy Regulatory Commission) CRR congestion revenue right DA Direct Access DER distributed energy resources DOE U.S. Department of Energy DOT U.S. Department of Transportation DWR California Department of Water Resources ECA LNG ECA LNG Phase 1 and ECA LNG Phase 2, collectively ECA LNG Phase 1 ECA LNG Holdings B.V. ECA LNG Phase 2 ECA LNG II Holdings B.V. ECA Regas Facility Energ a Costa Azul, S. de R.L. de C.V. LNG regasification facility Ecogas Ecogas M xico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Edison Southern California Edison Company, a subsidiary of Edison International EFH Energy Future Holdings Corp. (renamed Sempra Texas Holdings Corp.) Enova Enova Corporation EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPC engineering, procurement and construction EPS earnings (losses) per common share ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc., the independent system operator and the regional coordinator of various electricity systems within Texas ESJ Energ a Sierra Ju rez, S. de R.L. de C.V. ETR effective income tax rate Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings, Inc. 2023 Form 10-K | 5 Table of Contents GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) FTA Free Trade Agreement GCIM Gas Cost Incentive Mechanism GHG greenhouse gas GRC General Rate Case HMRC His Majesty s Revenue and Customs (United Kingdom s Revenue and Customs Department) HOA Heads of Agreement IEnova Infraestructura Energ tica Nova, S.A.P.I. de C.V. IEnova Pipelines IEnova Pipelines, S. de R.L. de C.V. IMG Infraestructura Marina del Golfo INEOS INEOS Energy Trading Limited, a subsidiary of INEOS Limited IOU investor-owned utility IRA Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 IRS U.S. Internal Revenue Service ISFSI independent spent fuel storage installation ISO Independent System Operator JV joint venture KKR Denali KKR Denali Holdco LLC, an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P. KKR Pinnacle KKR Pinnacle Investor L.P., an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P. kV kilovolt kW kilowatt kWh kilowatt hour LA Superior Court Los Angeles County Superior Court Leak the leak at the SoCalGas Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility injection-and-withdrawal well, SS25, discovered by SoCalGas on October 23, 2015 LNG liquefied natural gas LPG liquid petroleum gas LTIP long-term incentive plan MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mexican Stock Exchange Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V., or BMV MMBtu million British thermal units (of natural gas) MMcf million cubic feet Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. MOU Memorandum of Understanding Mtpa million tonnes per annum MW megawatt MWh megawatt hour NAV net asset value NCI noncontrolling interest(s) NDT nuclear decommissioning trusts NEIL Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited NEM net energy metering NOL net operating loss NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission NYSE New York Stock Exchange O M operation and maintenance expense OCI other comprehensive income (loss) OEIS Office of Energy Infrastructure Safety OII Order Instituting Investigation Oncor Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC Oncor Holdings Oncor Electric Delivery Holdings Company LLC ORLEN Polski Koncern Naftowy Orlen S.A. (formerly Polish Oil Gas Company) OSC Order to Show Cause Other Sempra All Sempra consolidated entities, except for SDG E and SoCalGas PA LNG Phase 1 project initial phase of the Port Arthur LNG liquefaction project PA LNG Phase 2 project second phase of the Port Arthur LNG liquefaction project 2023 Form 10-K | 6 Table of Contents GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) PBOP postretirement benefits other than pension PE Pacific Enterprises PEMEX Petr leos Mexicanos (Mexican state-owned oil company) PG E Pacific Gas and Electric Company PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration Port Arthur LNG Port Arthur LNG, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of SI Partners that owns the PA LNG Phase 1 project PP E property, plant and equipment PPA power purchase agreement PRP Potentially Responsible Party PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas PURA Texas Public Utility Regulatory Act PXiSE PXiSE Energy Solutions, LLC Rating Agencies Moody s, S P and Fitch, collectively RBS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS Sempra Commodities RBS Sempra Commodities LLP REC renewable energy certificate Registrants has the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act and consists of Sempra, SDG E and SoCalGas for purposes of this report ROE return on equity ROU right-of-use RPS Renewables Portfolio Standard RSU restricted stock unit S P S P Global Ratings, a division of S P Global Inc. SB California Senate Bill SDG E San Diego Gas Electric Company SDSRA Senior Debt Service Reserve Account SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SED Safety and Enforcement Division of the CPUC SEDATU Secretar a de Desarrollo Agrario, Territorial y Urbano (Mexico s agency in charge of agriculture, land and urban development) SEFE SEFE Marketing Trading M xico S. de R.L. de C.V. (formerly known as Gazprom Marketing Trading M xico S. de R.L. de C.V.) SENER Secretar a de Energ a de M xico (Mexico s Ministry of Energy) series A preferred stock 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series A series B preferred stock 6.75% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series B series C preferred stock Sempra s 4.875% fixed-rate reset cumulative redeemable perpetual preferred stock, series C Sharyland Holdings Sharyland Holdings, L.P. Sharyland Utilities Sharyland Utilities, L.L.C. SI Partners Sempra Infrastructure Partners, LP, the holding company for most of Sempra s subsidiaries not subject to California or Texas utility regulation SoCalGas Southern California Gas Company SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SONGS San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station SPA sale and purchase agreement SST Committee Safety, Sustainability and Technology Committee of the Sempra board of directors Support Agreement support agreement, dated July 28, 2020 and amended on June 29, 2021, among Sempra and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation TAG Norte TAG Norte Holding, S. de R.L. de C.V. TAG Pipelines TAG Pipelines Norte, S. de R.L. de C.V. Tangguh PSC Tangguh PSC Contractors TCEQ Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TdM Termoel ctrica de Mexicali TO5 Electric Transmission Owner Formula Rate, effective June 1, 2019 TTI Texas Transmission Investment LLC, an entity indirectly owned by OMERS Administration Corporation (acting through its infrastructure investment entity, OMERS Infrastructure Management Inc.) and GIC Private Limited U.S. GAAP generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America VaR value at risk 2023 Form 10-K | 7 Table of Contents GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) VAT value-added tax Ventika Ventika, S.A.P.I. de C.V. and Ventika II, S.A.P.I. de C.V., collectively VIE variable interest entity Wildfire Fund the fund established pursuant to AB 1054 Wildfire Legislation AB 1054 and AB 111 In this report, references to Sempra are to Sempra and its consolidated entities, collectively, and references to we, our, us and our company are to the applicable Registrant and its consolidated entities, collectively, in each case unless otherwise stated or indicated by the context. All references in this report to our reportable segments are not intended to refer to any legal entity with the same or similar name. Throughout this report, we refer to the following as Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements when discussed together or collectively: the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of Sempra; the Financial Statements and related Notes of SDG E; and the Financial Statements and related Notes of SoCalGas. 2023 Form 10-K | 8 Table of Contents INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about the future, involve risks and uncertainties, and are not guarantees. Future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the filing date of this report. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as believe, expect, intend, anticipate, contemplate, plan, estimate, project, forecast, envision, should, could, would, will, confident, may, can, potential, possible, proposed, in process, construct, develop, opportunity, preliminary, initiative, target, outlook, optimistic, poised, maintain, continue, progress, advance, goal, aim, commit, or similar expressions, or when we discuss our guidance, priorities, strategy, goals, vision, mission, opportunities, projections, intentions or expectations. Factors, among others, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement include: California wildfires, including potential liability for damages regardless of fault and any inability to recover all or a substantial portion of costs from insurance, the Wildfire Fund, rates from customers or a combination thereof decisions, investigations, inquiries, regulations, denials or revocations of permits, consents, approvals or other authorizations, renewals of franchises, and other actions, including the failure to honor contracts and commitments, by the (i) CPUC, CRE, DOE, FERC, PUCT, IRS and other regulatory bodies and (ii) U.S., Mexico and states, counties, cities and other jurisdictions therein and in other countries where we do business the success of business development efforts, construction projects, acquisitions, divestitures, and other significant transactions, including risks related to (i) being able to make a final investment decision, (ii) completing construction projects or other transactions on schedule and budget, (iii) realizing anticipated benefits from any of these efforts if completed, (iv) obtaining third-party consents and approvals and (v) third parties honoring their contracts and commitments macroeconomic trends or other factors that could change our capital expenditure plans and their potential impact on rate base or other growth litigation, arbitrations, property disputes and other proceedings, and changes to laws and regulations, including those related to tax and trade policy and the energy industry in Mexico cybersecurity threats, including by state and state-sponsored actors, of ransomware or other attacks on our systems or the systems of third parties with which we conduct business, including the energy grid or other energy infrastructure the availability, uses, sufficiency, and cost of capital resources and our ability to borrow money or otherwise raise capital on favorable terms and meet our obligations, including due to (i) actions by credit rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook, (ii) instability in the capital markets, or (iii) rising interest rates and inflation the impact on affordability of SDG E s and SoCalGas customer rates and their cost of capital and on SDG E s, SoCalGas and Sempra Infrastructure s ability to pass through higher costs to customers due to (i) volatility in inflation, interest rates and commodity prices, (ii) with respect to SDG E s and SoCalGas businesses, the cost of meeting the demand for lower carbon and reliable energy in California, and (iii) with respect to Sempra Infrastructure s business, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates the impact of climate and sustainability policies, laws, rules, regulations, disclosures and trends, including actions to reduce or eliminate reliance on natural gas, increased uncertainty in the political or regulatory environment for California natural gas distribution companies, the risk of nonrecovery for stranded assets, and uncertainty related to relevant emerging and early-stage technologies weather, natural disasters, pandemics, accidents, equipment failures, explosions, terrorism, information system outages or other events, such as work stoppages, that disrupt our operations, damage our facilities or systems, cause the release of harmful materials or fires or subject us to liability for damages, fines and penalties, some of which may not be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms or insurance or may impact our ability to obtain satisfactory levels of affordable insurance the availability of electric power, natural gas and natural gas storage capacity, including disruptions caused by failures in the transmission grid, pipeline system or limitations on the withdrawal of natural gas from storage facilities Oncor s ability to reduce or eliminate its quarterly dividends due to regulatory and governance requirements and commitments, including by actions of Oncor s independent directors or a minority member director other uncertainties, some of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control 2023 Form 10-K | 9 Table of Contents We caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. You should review and carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors that affect our businesses as described herein and in other reports we file with the SEC. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks you should understand before making an investment decision in our securities or the securities of our subsidiaries. This summary is not intended to be complete and should only be read together with the information set forth in Part I