Item 1. Business 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 54 Item 2. Properties 54 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 54 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 54 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 55 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 55 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 58 Overview 58 Results of Operations 58 Capital Resources and Liquidity 72 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 90 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 94 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 96 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 96 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 96 Item 9B. Other Information 101 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 101 Item 11. Executive Compensation 101 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 102 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 102 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 104 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 113 Signatures 114 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Index to Condensed Financial Information of Parent S-1 This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by Sempra Energy, San Diego Gas Electric Company and Southern California Gas Company. Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. Each company makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representation whatsoever as to any other company. You should read this report in its entirety as it pertains to each respective reporting company. No one section of the report deals with all aspects of the subject matter. Separate Item 6 and 8 sections are provided for each reporting company, except for the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all of the reporting companies are combined. All Items other than Items 6 and 8 are combined for the reporting companies. 4 The following terms and abbreviations appearing in the text of this report have the meanings indicated below. GLOSSARY 2016 GRC FD final decision in the California Utilities 2016 General Rate Case 2019 GRC FD final decision in the California Utilities 2019 General Rate Case AB California Assembly Bill AEP American Electric Power Company, Inc. AFUDC allowance for funds used during construction AOCI accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ARO asset retirement obligation ASC Accounting Standards Codification Asset Exchange Agreement agreement and plan of merger among Oncor, SDTS and Sharyland Utilities ASU Accounting Standards Update Bay Gas Bay Gas Storage Company, Ltd. Bcf billion cubic feet Bechtel Bechtel Oil, Gas and Chemicals, Inc. Blade Blade Energy Partners bps basis points Cal PA California Public Advocates Office CalGEM California Geologic Energy Management Division (formerly known as Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources or DOGGR) California Utilities San Diego Gas Electric Company and Southern California Gas Company, collectively Cameron LNG JV Cameron LNG Holdings, LLC CARB California Air Resources Board CCA Community Choice Aggregation CCC California Coastal Commission CCM cost of capital adjustment mechanism CEC California Energy Commission CENAGAS Centro Nacional de Control de Gas CFE Comisi n Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission in Mexico) Chilquinta Energ a Chilquinta Energ a S.A. and its subsidiaries CNE Comisi n Nacional de Energ a (National Energy Commission) (Chile) Con Ed Consolidated Edison, Inc. CPUC California Public Utilities Commission CRE Comisi n Reguladora de Energ a (Energy Regulatory Commission in Mexico) CRR congestion revenue right DA Direct Access DEN Ductos y Energ ticos del Norte, S. de R.L. de C.V. DOE U.S. Department of Energy DOT U.S. Department of Transportation Dth dekatherm DWR California Department of Water Resources ECA LNG JV ECA LNG Holdings B.V. ECA LNG Regasification Energ a Costa Azul, S. de R.L. de C.V. regasification Ecogas Ecogas M xico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Edison Southern California Edison Company, a subsidiary of Edison International EFH Energy Future Holdings Corp. (renamed Sempra Texas Holdings Corp.) EFIH Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC (renamed Sempra Texas Intermediate Holding Company LLC) Eletrans Eletrans S.A., Eletrans II S.A. and Eletrans III S.A., collectively EMA energy management agreement Enova Enova Corporation EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPC engineering, procurement and construction EPS earnings per common share ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc., the independent system operator and the regional coordinator of various electricity systems within Texas ERR eligible renewable energy resource 5 GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) ETR effective income tax rate FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings FTA Free Trade Agreement Gazprom Gazprom Marketing Trading Mexico GCIM Gas Cost Incentive Mechanism GHG greenhouse gas GRC General Rate Case HLBV hypothetical liquidation at book value HMRC United Kingdom s Revenue and Customs Department IEnova Infraestructura Energ tica Nova, S.A.B. de C.V. IEnova Pipelines IEnova Pipelines, S. de R.L. de C.V. IMG JV Infraestructura Marina del Golfo InfraREIT InfraREIT, Inc. InfraREIT Merger Agreement agreement and plan of merger among Oncor, 1912 Merger Sub LLC (a wholly owned subsidiary of Oncor), Oncor T D Partners, LP (a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of Oncor), InfraREIT and InfraREIT Partners, LP IOU investor-owned utility IRC U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) IRS Internal Revenue Service ISFSI independent spent fuel storage installation ISO Independent System Operator ITC investment tax credit JP Morgan J.P. Morgan Chase Co. JV joint venture kV kilovolt kW kilowatt kWh kilowatt hour LA Storage LA Storage, LLC LA Superior Court Los Angeles County Superior Court Leak the leak at the SoCalGas Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility injection-and-withdrawal well, SS25, discovered by SoCalGas on October 23, 2015 LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIFO last in first out LNG liquefied natural gas LPG liquid petroleum gas LTIP long-term incentive plan Luz del Sur Luz del Sur S.A.A. and its subsidiaries MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Merger The merger of EFH with an indirect subsidiary of Sempra Energy, with EFH continuing as the surviving company and as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Sempra Energy Merger Agreement Agreement and Plan of Merger dated August 21, 2017, as supplemented by a Waiver Agreement dated October 3, 2017 and an amendment dated February 15, 2018, between Sempra Energy, EFH, EFIH and an indirect subsidiary of Sempra Energy Merger Consideration Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Sempra Energy paid consideration of $9.45 billion in cash Mexican Stock Exchange La Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V., or BMV MHI Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., Mitsubishi Nuclear Energy Systems, Inc., and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc., collectively Mississippi Hub Mississippi Hub, LLC MMBtu million British thermal units (of natural gas) MMcf million cubic feet Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. MOU Memorandum of Understanding Mtpa million tonnes per annum MW megawatt MWh megawatt hour NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement 6 GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) NAV net asset value NCI noncontrolling interest(s) NDT nuclear decommissioning trusts NEIL Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited NEM net energy metering NOL net operating loss NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission OCI other comprehensive income (loss) OII Order Instituting Investigation OIR Order Instituting a Rulemaking O M operation and maintenance expense OMEC Otay Mesa Energy Center OMEC LLC Otay Mesa Energy Center LLC OMI Oncor Management Investment LLC Oncor Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC Oncor Holdings Oncor Electric Delivery Holdings Company LLC OSINERGMIN Organismo Supervisor de la Inversi n en Energ a y Miner a (Energy and Mining Investment Supervisory Body) (Peru) Otay Mesa VIE OMEC LLC VIE PBOP postretirement benefits other than pension PE Pacific Enterprises PEMEX Petr leos Mexicanos (Mexican state-owned oil company) PG E Pacific Gas and Electric Company PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PPA power purchase agreement PP E property, plant and equipment PRP Potentially Responsible Party PSEP Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas PURA Public Utility Regulatory Act QF Qualifying Facility RBS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS SEE RBS Sempra Energy Europe RBS Sempra Commodities RBS Sempra Commodities LLP REC renewable energy certificate ROE return on equity ROU right-of-use RPS Renewables Portfolio Standard RSU restricted stock unit SB California Senate Bill SCAQMD South Coast Air Quality Management District SDG E San Diego Gas Electric Company SDTS Sharyland Distribution Transmission Services, L.L.C. (a subsidiary of InfraREIT) SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Purchase Agreement securities purchase agreement among Sharyland Utilities, LP, SU Investment Partners, L.P., Sempra Texas Utilities Holdings I, LLC (a wholly owned subsidiary of Sempra Energy) and Sempra Energy SEDATU Secretar a de Desarrollo Agrario, Territorial y Urbano (Mexican agency in charge of agriculture, land and urban development) Sempra Global holding company for most of Sempra Energy s subsidiaries not subject to California or Texas utility regulation series A preferred stock 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series A series B preferred stock 6.75% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series B Sharyland Holdings Sharyland Holdings, L.P. Sharyland Utilities Sharyland Utilities, L.L.C. Shell Shell M xico Gas Natural SoCalGas Southern California Gas Company 7 GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) SONGS San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station SONGS OII CPUC s Order Instituting Investigation into the SONGS Outage S P Standard Poor s Global Ratings TAG JV TAG Norte Holding, S. de R.L. de C.V. Tangguh PSC Tangguh PSC Contractors TC Energy TC Energy Corporation (formerly known as TransCanada Corporation) TCJA Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TdM Termoel ctrica de Mexicali TechnipFMC TP Oil Gas Mexico, S. De R.L. De C.V., an affiliate of TechnipFMC plc Tecnored Tecnored S.A. Tecsur Tecsur S.A. TO4 Electric Transmission Owner Formula Rate, effective through December 31, 2018 TO5 Electric Transmission Owner Formula Rate, new application TTHC Texas Transmission Holdings Corporation TTI Texas Transmission Investment LLC TURN The Utility Reform Network USMCA United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement U.S. GAAP accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America VaR value at risk VAT value-added tax Ventika Ventika, S.A.P.I. de C.V. and Ventika II, S.A.P.I. de C.V., collectively VIE variable interest entity Wildfire Fund the fund established pursuant to AB 1054 Wildfire Legislation AB 1054 and AB 111 8 INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We make statements in this report that are not historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions with respect to the future, involve risks and uncertainties, and are not guarantees of performance. Future results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the filing date of this report. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors. In this report, forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as believes, expects, anticipates, plans, estimates, projects, forecasts, should, could, would, will, confident, may, can, potential, possible, proposed, target, pursue, outlook, maintain, or similar expressions, or when we discuss our guidance, strategy, goals, vision, mission, opportunities, projections or intentions. Factors, among others, that could cause our actual results and future actions to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties relating to: California wildfires and the risk that we may be found liable for damages regardless of fault and the risk that we may not be able to recover any such costs from insurance, the Wildfire Fund or in rates from customers; decisions, investigations, regulations, issuances of permits and other authorizations, renewal of franchises, and other actions by the CFE, CPUC, DOE, PUCT, regulatory and governmental bodies and jurisdictions in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate; the success of business development efforts, construction projects and major acquisitions and divestitures, including risks in (i) the ability to make a final investment decision and completing construction projects on schedule and budget; (ii) obtaining the consent of partners; (iii) counterparties financial or other ability to fulfill contractual commitments; (iv) the ability to complete contemplated acquisitions and/or divestitures; and (v) the ability to realize anticipated benefits from any of these efforts once completed; the resolution of civil and criminal litigation, regulatory investigations and proceedings and arbitrations; actions by credit rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings or to place those ratings on negative outlook and our ability to borrow at favorable interest rates; moves to reduce or eliminate reliance on natural gas; weather, natural disasters, accidents, equipment failures, computer system outages and other events that disrupt our operations, damage our facilities and systems, cause the release of harmful materials, cause fires and subject us to liability for property damage or personal injuries, fines and penalties, some of which may not be covered by insurance (including costs in excess of applicable policy limits), may be disputed by insurers or may otherwise not be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms or may impact our ability to obtain satisfactory levels of affordable insurance; the availability of electric power and natural gas and natural gas storage capacity, including disruptions caused by failures in the transmission grid, limitations on the withdrawal or injection of natural gas from or into storage facilities, and equipment failures; cybersecurity threats to the energy grid, storage and pipeline infrastructure, the information and systems used to operate our businesses, and the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the personal information of our customers and employees; expropriation of assets, the failure of foreign governments and state-owned entities to honor the terms of contracts, and property disputes; the impact at SDG E on competitive customer rates and reliability due to the growth in distributed power generation and from departing retail load resulting from customers transferring to DA, CCA or other forms of distributed power generation and the risk of nonrecovery for stranded assets and contractual obligations; Oncor s ability to eliminate or reduce its quarterly dividends due to regulatory and governance requirements and commitments, including by actions of Oncor s independent directors or a minority member director; volatility in foreign currency exchange, interest and inflation rates and commodity prices and our ability to effectively hedge the risk of such volatility; changes in trade policies, laws and regulations, including tariffs and revisions to or replacement of international trade agreements, such as the NAFTA, that may increase our costs or impair our ability to resolve trade disputes; the impact of changes to federal and state tax laws and our ability to mitigate adverse impacts; and other uncertainties, some of which may be difficult to predict and are beyond our control. 9 We caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. You should review and consider carefully the risks, uncertainties and other factors that affect our business as described herein and in other reports that we file with the SEC. 10 PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS This report on Form 10-K includes information for the following separate registrants: Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities SDG E and its consolidated VIE (until deconsolidation of the VIE on August 23, 2019) SoCalGas References in this report to we, our, us, our company and Sempra Energy Consolidated are to Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities, collectively, unless otherwise indicated by the context. We refer to SDG E and SoCalGas collectively as the California Utilities, which do not include Sempra Texas Utilities or the utility in our Sempra Mexico segment. OVERVIEW We are a California-based energy-services holding company. Our businesses invest in, develop and operate energy infrastructure, and provide electric and gas services to customers in North America. Sempra Energy was formed in 1998 through a business combination of Enova and PE, the holding companies of our regulated public utilities in California: SDG E, which began operations in 1881, and SoCalGas, which began operations in 1867. We have since expanded our regulated public utility presence into Texas through our 2018 and 2020 acquisitions of an aggregate indirect 80.45% interest in Oncor and, in 2019, Oncor s acquisition of InfraREIT and our acquisition of an indirect 50% interest in Sharyland Utilities. Since 1995, we have had a strong and growing presence in Mexico through IEnova, the first energy infrastructure company to be listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange. IEnova has a diverse portfolio of projects and assets serving Mexico s growing energy needs. Our energy infrastructure footprint continues to expand across North America, through LNG development projects and assets in Louisiana, Texas and Mexico, including our indirect 50.2% interest in Cameron LNG JV, which commenced commercial operation of the first of three liquefaction trains in August 2019. In 2018, we announced a multi-phase portfolio optimization initiative designed to sharpen our strategic focus on North America. We have since executed on that initiative by completing the sales of our renewables businesses and our non-utility natural gas storage assets in the U.S., and by entering into agreements to sell our South American businesses. We expect to complete the sales of our South American businesses in the first half of 2020. We present the South American businesses as discontinued operations throughout this report. Business Strategy Our mission is to be North America s premier energy infrastructure company. We are focused on generating stable, predictable earnings and cash flows by investing in, developing and operating electric and gas infrastructure with the goal of delivering safe and reliable energy to our customers and increasing shareholder value. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT We operate our business through the following reportable segments: SDG E SoCalGas Sempra Texas Utilities Sempra Mexico Sempra Renewables (until April 2019) Sempra LNG 11 SDG E SDG E is a regulated public utility that provides electric services to a population of approximately 3.7 million and natural gas services to approximately 3.4 million of that population, covering a 4,100 square mile service territory in Southern California that encompasses San Diego County and an adjacent portion of southern Orange County. Electric Utility Operations Electric Transmission and Distribution System. Service to SDG E s customers is supported by its electric transmission and distribution system, which includes substations and overhead and underground lines. These electric facilities are primarily in San Diego, Imperial and Orange counties of California, and in Arizona and Nevada and consist of 2,099 miles of transmission lines, 23,562 miles of distribution lines and 161 substations as of December 31, 2019 . Periodically, various areas of the service territory require expansion to accommodate customer growth, reliability and safety. SDG E s 500-kV Southwest Powerlink transmission line, which is shared with Arizona Public Service Company and Imperial Irrigation District, extends from Palo Verde, Arizona to San Diego, California. SDG E s share of the line is 1,162 MW, although it can be less under certain system conditions. SDG E s Sunrise Powerlink is a 500-kV transmission line constructed and operated by SDG E with import capability of 1,000 MW of power. Mexico s Baja California transmission system is connected to SDG E s system via two 230-kV interconnections with combined capacity of up to 408 MW in the north-to-south direction and 800 MW in the south-to-north direction, although it can be less under certain system conditions. Edison s transmission system is connected to SDG E s system via five 230-kV transmission lines. Electric Resources. To meet customer demand, SDG E supplies power from its own electric generation facilities and procures power on a long-term basis from other suppliers for resale through CPUC-approved purchased-power contracts or through purchases on a spot basis. SDG E does not earn any return on commodity sales volumes. SDG E s supply as of December 31, 2019 was as follows: SDG E ELECTRIC RESOURCES (1) Contract Net operating expiration date capacity (MW) % of total Owned generation facilities, natural gas (2) 1,193 23 % Purchased-power contracts: Qualifying facilities 2024 to 2026 132 3 Renewables: Wind 2023 to 2035 948 18 Solar 2030 to 2041 1,348 26 Other 2020 and thereafter 340 7 Tolling and other 2022 to 2042 1,170 23 Total 5,131 100 % (1) Excludes approximately 107.5 MW of battery storage owned and approximately 9.5 MW of battery storage contracted. (2) SDG E owns and operates four natural gas-fired power plants, three of which are in California and one of which is in Nevada. SDG E is required to interconnect with and purchase power from QFs, a class of generating facilities established by the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, at rates that do not exceed SDG E s avoided cost. SDG E s QFs include cogeneration facilities, which produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) used for industrial, commercial, residential or institutional purposes. Charges under most of the contracts with QFs are based on what it would incrementally cost SDG E to produce the power or procure it from other sources. Charges under the contracts with other suppliers are for firm and as-generated energy and are based on the amount of energy received or are tolls based on available capacity. Tolling contracts are purchased-power contracts under which SDG E provides natural gas for generation to the energy supplier. The prices under these contracts include 125 MW at prices that are based on the market value at the time the contracts were negotiated. SDG E procures natural gas under short-term contracts for its owned generation facilities and for certain tolling contracts associated with purchased-power arrangements. Purchases are from various southwestern U.S. suppliers and are primarily priced based on published monthly bid-week indices. 12 SDG E is a participant in the Western Systems Power Pool, which includes an electric-power and transmission-rate agreement that allows access to power trading with more than 300 member utilities, power agencies, energy brokers and power marketers located throughout the U.S. and Canada. Participants can make power transactions on standardized terms, including market-based rates, preapproved by the FERC. Participation in the Western Systems Power Pool is intended to assist members in managing power delivery and price risk. Customers and Demand. SDG E provides electric services through the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity to the following customer classes: SDG E ELECTRIC CUSTOMER METERS AND VOLUMES Customer meter count Volumes (1) (millions of kWh) December 31, Years ended December 31, 2019 2019 2018 2017 Residential 1,305,380 5,982 6,336 6,577 Commercial 151,100 6,295 6,539 6,763 Industrial 410 2,044 2,169 2,198 Street and highway lighting 2,080 76 81 79 1,458,970 14,397 15,125 15,617 CCA and DA 12,330 3,549 3,628 3,394 Total 1,471,300 17,946 18,753 19,011 (1) Includes intercompany sales. San Diego s mild climate and SDG E s robust energy efficiency programs contribute to lower consumption by our customers. Rooftop solar installations continue to reduce residential and commercial volumes sold by SDG E. As of December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , the residential and commercial rooftop solar capacity in SDG E s territory totaled 1,233 MW, 1,023 MW and 836 MW, respectively. Demand for electricity is dependent on the health and expansion of the Southern California economy, prices of alternative energy products, consumer preference, environmental regulations, legislation, renewable power generation, the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs, demand-side management impact and distributed generation resources. California s energy policy supports increased electrification, particularly electrification of vehicles, which could result in significant increases in sales volumes in the coming years. Other external factors, such as the price of purchased power, the use of hydroelectric power, the use of and further development of renewable energy resources and energy storage, development of new natural gas supply sources, demand for natural gas and general economic conditions, can also result in significant shifts in the market price of electricity, which may in turn impact demand. Demand for electricity is also impacted by seasonal weather patterns (or seasonality ), tending to increase in the summer months to meet cooling load and in the winter months to meet heating load. Competition. SDG E faces competition to serve its customer load from the growth in distributed and local power generation, including rooftop solar installations and battery storage, and the corresponding decrease in demand for power from departing retail load from customers transferring to load serving entities other than SDG E. While SDG E currently provides procurement service for the majority of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than SDG E through programs such as DA and CCA. DA is currently limited by a cap based on gigawatt hours. Utility customers can also receive procurement through CCA, if the customer s local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. Several local political jurisdictions, including the City of San Diego and other municipalities, are considering implementing or are implementing a CCA, which could result in SDG E providing procurement service for less than half of its current customer load as early as 2021. When customers are served by another load serving entity, SDG E no longer procures electricity for this departing load and the associated costs of the utility s procured resources could then be borne by SDG E s remaining bundled procurement customers. To help achieve the goal of ratepayer indifference (whether or not customers are served by DA or CCA), the CPUC revised the Power Charge Indifference Adjustment framework by adopting several refinements, which SDG E implemented on January 1, 2019. Natural Gas Utility Operations We describe SDG E s natural gas utility operations below in California Utilities Natural Gas Utility Operations. 13 Key Noncash Performance Indicators We use certain financial and non-financial metrics to measure how effective our businesses are in achieving their key business objectives. SDG E s key noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety (including activities designed to help reduce the risk of wildfires), number of customers, electricity sold, system average rate and natural gas volumes transported and sold. Additional noncash performance indicators include customer service, company reputation, environmental considerations (including quantities of renewable energy purchases), on-time and on-budget completion of major projects and initiatives, and service reliability. SoCalGas SoCalGas is a regulated public utility that owns and operates a natural gas distribution, transmission and storage system that supplies natural gas to a population of approximately 22 million, covering a 24,000 square mile service territory that encompasses Southern California and portions of central California (excluding San Diego County, the City of Long Beach and the desert area of San Bernardino County). Natural Gas Utility Operations We describe SoCalGas natural gas utility operations below in California Utilities Natural Gas Utility Operations. Key Noncash Performance Indicators Key noncash performance indicators for SoCalGas include goals related to safety, number of customers and natural gas volumes transported and sold. Additional noncash performance indicators include customer service, company reputation, environmental considerations, natural gas demand by customer segment, on-time and on-budget completion of major projects and initiatives, and service reliability. California Utilities Natural Gas Utility Operations Natural Gas Procurement and Transportation At December 31, 2019, SoCalGas natural gas facilities include 3,058 miles of transmission and storage pipelines, 51,073 miles of distribution pipelines, 48,315 miles of service pipelines and nine transmission compressor stations, while SDG E s natural gas facilities co