Item 1. Business 12 Item 1A. Risk Factors 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 58 Item 2. Properties 58 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 58 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 58 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 59 Item 6. (Reserved) 60 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 60 Overview 60 Results of Operations 60 Capital Resources and Liquidity 75 Critical Accounting Estimates 95 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 99 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 101 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 102 Item 9B. Other Information 106 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 106 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 106 Item 11. Executive Compensation 106 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 106 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 108 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 109 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 119 Signatures 120 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Index to Condensed Financial Information of Parent S-1 This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by Sempra Energy doing business as Sempra, San Diego Gas Electric Company and Southern California Gas Company. Information contained herein relating to any one of these individual reporting entities is filed by such entity on its own behalf. Each entity makes statements herein only as to itself and its consolidated subsidiaries and makes no statement whatsoever as to any other entity. You should read this report in its entirety as it pertains to each respective reporting entity. No one section of the report deals with all aspects of the subject matter. A separate Part II Item 8 is provided for each reporting entity, except for the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8. The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all of the reporting entities are combined. All Items other than Part II Item 8 are combined for the three reporting entities. 4 Table of C ontents The following terms and abbreviations appearing in this report have the meanings indicated below. GLOSSARY 2019 GRC FD final decision in SDG E s and SoCalGas 2019 General Rate Case AB California Assembly Bill ADIA Black Silverback ZC 2022 LP (assignee of Black River B 2017 Inc.), a wholly owned affiliate of Abu Dhabi Investment Authority AFUDC allowance for funds used during construction AMP Arrearage Management Payment Plan AOCI accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ARO asset retirement obligation ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASEA Agencia de Seguridad, Energ a y Ambiente (Mexico s National Agency for Industrial Safety and Environmental Protection) ASR accelerated share repurchase ASU Accounting Standards Update Bay Gas Bay Gas Storage Company, Ltd. Bcf billion cubic feet Bechtel Bechtel Oil, Gas and Chemicals, Inc. Blade Blade Energy Partners bps basis points CalGEM California Geologic Energy Management Division (formerly known as Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources or DOGGR) Cameron LNG JV Cameron LNG Holdings, LLC CARB California Air Resources Board CCA Community Choice Aggregation CCC California Coastal Commission CCM cost of capital adjustment mechanism CEC California Energy Commission CENACE Centro Nacional de Control de Energ a (Mexico s National Center for Energy Control) CENAGAS Centro Nacional de Control de Gas CFE Comisi n Federal de Electricidad (Mexico s Federal Electricity Commission) CFIN Cameron LNG FINCO, LLC, a wholly owned and unconsolidated affiliate of Cameron LNG JV Chilquinta Energ a Chilquinta Energ a, S.A. and its subsidiaries CNBV Comisi n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (Mexico s National Banking and Securities Commission) COVID-19 coronavirus disease 2019 CPUC California Public Utilities Commission CRE Comisi n Reguladora de Energ a (Mexico s Energy Regulatory Commission) CRR congestion revenue right DA Direct Access DEN Ductos y Energ ticos del Norte, S. de R.L. de C.V. DOE U.S. Department of Energy DOT U.S. Department of Transportation DWR California Department of Water Resources ECA LNG ECA LNG Phase 1 and ECA LNG Phase 2, collectively ECA LNG Phase 1 ECA LNG Holdings B.V. ECA LNG Phase 2 ECA LNG II Holdings B.V. ECA Regas Facility Energ a Costa Azul, S. de R.L. de C.V. LNG regasification facility Ecogas Ecogas M xico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Edison Southern California Edison Company, a subsidiary of Edison International EFH Energy Future Holdings Corp. (renamed Sempra Texas Holdings Corp.) Eletrans Eletrans S.A., Eletrans II S.A. and Eletrans III S.A., collectively Enova Enova Corporation EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPC engineering, procurement and construction 5 Table of C ontents GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) EPS earnings (losses) per common share ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc., the independent system operator and the regional coordinator of various electricity systems within Texas ERR eligible renewable energy resource ESJ Energ a Sierra Ju rez, S. de R.L. de C.V. ETR effective income tax rate Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings FTA Free Trade Agreement Gazprom Gazprom Marketing Trading M xico S. de R.L. de C.V. GCIM Gas Cost Incentive Mechanism GHG greenhouse gas GRC General Rate Case HMRC Her Majesty s Revenue and Customs (United Kingdom s Revenue and Customs Department) IEnova Infraestructura Energ tica Nova, S.A.B. de C.V., renamed Infraestructura Energ tica Nova, S.A.P.I. de C.V. on November 1, 2021 IEnova Pipelines IEnova Pipelines, S. de R.L. de C.V. IMG Infraestructura Marina del Golfo InfraREIT InfraREIT, Inc. IOU investor-owned utility IRC U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) IRS U.S. Internal Revenue Service ISFSI independent spent fuel storage installation ISO Independent System Operator JV joint venture KKR KKR Pinnacle Investor L.P. (as successor-in-interest to KKR Pinnacle Aggregator L.P.), an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P. kV kilovolt kW kilowatt kWh kilowatt hour LA Superior Court Los Angeles County Superior Court Leak the leak at the SoCalGas Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility injection-and-withdrawal well, SS25, discovered by SoCalGas on October 23, 2015 LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LNG liquefied natural gas LPG liquid petroleum gas LTIP long-term incentive plan Luz del Sur Luz del Sur S.A.A. and its subsidiaries MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mexican Stock Exchange Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V., or BMV Mississippi Hub Mississippi Hub, LLC MMBtu million British thermal units (of natural gas) MMcf million cubic feet Moody s Moody s Investors Service MOU Memorandum of Understanding Mtpa million tonnes per annum MW megawatt MWh megawatt hour NAV net asset value NCI noncontrolling interest(s) NDT nuclear decommissioning trusts NEIL Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited NEM net energy metering NOL net operating loss 6 Table of C ontents GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission NYSE New York Stock Exchange O M operation and maintenance expense OCI other comprehensive income (loss) OEIS Office of Energy Infrastructure Safety OII Order Instituting Investigation OIR Order Instituting a Rulemaking OMEC Otay Mesa Energy Center OMEC LLC Otay Mesa Energy Center LLC Oncor Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC Oncor Holdings Oncor Electric Delivery Holdings Company LLC OSC Order to Show Cause Otay Mesa VIE OMEC LLC VIE PBOP postretirement benefits other than pension PE Pacific Enterprises PEMEX Petr leos Mexicanos (Mexican state-owned oil company) PG E Pacific Gas and Electric Company PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PP E property, plant and equipment PPA power purchase agreement PRP Potentially Responsible Party PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas PURA Texas Public Utility Regulatory Act PXiSE PXiSE Energy Solutions, LLC RBS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS SEE RBS Sempra Energy Europe RBS Sempra Commodities RBS Sempra Commodities LLP REC renewable energy certificate ROE return on equity ROU right-of-use RPS Renewables Portfolio Standard RSU restricted stock unit S P S P Global Ratings, a division of S P Global Inc. Saavi Energ a Saavi Energ a S. de R.L. de C.V. SB California Senate Bill SDG E San Diego Gas Electric Company SDSRA Senior Debt Service Reserve Account SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SED Safety and Enforcement Division of the CPUC SEDATU Secretar a de Desarrollo Agrario, Territorial y Urbano (Mexico s agency in charge of agriculture, land and urban development) Sempra Sempra Energy doing business as Sempra, together with its consolidated entities unless otherwise stated or indicated by the context Sempra California San Diego Gas Electric Company and Southern California Gas Company, collectively Sempra Global Sempra Global, which was renamed Sempra Infrastructure Partners, LP on September 30, 2021 SENER Secretar a de Energ a de M xico (Mexico s Ministry of Energy) series A preferred stock 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series A series B preferred stock 6.75% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series B series C preferred stock Sempra s 4.875% fixed-rate reset cumulative redeemable perpetual preferred stock, series C Sharyland Holdings Sharyland Holdings, L.P. Sharyland Utilities Sharyland Utilities, L.L.C. Shell Mexico Shell M xico Gas Natural, S. de R.L. de C.V. SI Partners Sempra Infrastructure Partners, LP, the holding company for most of Sempra s subsidiaries not subject to California or Texas utility regulation, which was formerly named Sempra Global before September 30, 2021 SoCalGas Southern California Gas Company 7 Table of C ontents GLOSSARY (CONTINUED) SONGS San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station Support Agreement support agreement, dated July 28, 2020 and amended on June 29, 2021, among Sempra and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation TAG TAG Norte Holding, S. de R.L. de C.V. Tangguh PSC Tangguh PSC Contractors TCJA Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TdM Termoel ctrica de Mexicali Technip Energies TP Oil Gas Mexico, S. De R.L. De C.V., an affiliate of Technip Energies N.V. Tecnored Tecnored S.A. Tecsur Tecsur S.A. TO4 Electric Transmission Owner Formula Rate, effective through May 31, 2019 TO5 Electric Transmission Owner Formula Rate, effective June 1, 2019 TTI Texas Transmission Investment LLC U.S. GAAP generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America VaR value at risk VAT value-added tax Ventika Ventika, S.A.P.I. de C.V. and Ventika II, S.A.P.I. de C.V., collectively VIE variable interest entity Wildfire Fund the fund established pursuant to AB 1054 Wildfire Legislation AB 1054 and AB 111 References in this report to we, our, us, our company and Sempra are to Sempra and its consolidated entities, collectively, unless otherwise stated or indicated by the context. We sometimes refer to SDG E and SoCalGas collectively as Sempra California, which does not include the utilities in our Sempra Texas Utilities or Sempra Infrastructure segments or the utilities in our former South American businesses included in discontinued operations. All references in this report to our reportable segments are not intended to refer to any legal entity with the same or similar name. Throughout this report, we refer to the following as Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements when discussed together or collectively: the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of Sempra and its subsidiaries and VIEs; the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of SDG E and its VIE (until deconsolidation of the VIE in August 2019); and the Financial Statements and related Notes of SoCalGas. 8 Table of C ontents INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We make statements in this report that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions with respect to the future, involve risks and uncertainties, and are not guarantees. Future results may differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the filing date of this report. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as believes, expects, intends, anticipates, plans, estimates, projects, forecasts, should, could, would, will, confident, may, can, potential, possible, proposed, in process, under construction, in development, opportunity, target, outlook, maintain, continue, goal, aim, commit, or similar expressions, or when we discuss our guidance, priorities, strategy, goals, vision, mission, opportunities, projections, intentions or expectations. Factors, among others, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties relating to: California wildfires, including the risks that we may be found liable for damages regardless of fault and that we may not be able to recover all or a substantial portion of costs from insurance, the Wildfire Fund, in rates from customers or a combination thereof decisions, investigations, regulations, issuances or revocations of permits and other authorizations, renewals of franchises, and other actions by (i) the CPUC, CRE, DOE, FERC, PUCT, and other regulatory and governmental bodies and (ii) states, counties, cities and other jurisdictions in the U.S., Mexico and other countries in which we do business the success of business development efforts, construction projects and acquisitions and divestitures, including risks in (i) the ability to make a final investment decision, (ii) completing construction projects or other transactions on schedule and budget, (iii) the ability to realize anticipated benefits from any of these efforts if completed, and (iv) obtaining the consent or approval of partners or other third parties, including governmental entities and regulatory bodies the resolution of civil and criminal litigation, regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings, arbitrations, and property disputes, including those related to the Leak changes to laws, including proposed changes to the Mexican constitution that could materially limit access to the electric generation market and changes to Mexico s trade rules that could materially limit our ability to import, export, transport and store hydrocarbons failure of foreign governments and state-owned entities to honor their contracts and commitments actions by credit rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings or to place those ratings on negative outlook and our ability to borrow on favorable terms and meet our debt service obligations the impact of energy and climate policies, legislation and rulemaking, as well as related goals set, and actions taken, by companies in our industry, including actions to reduce or eliminate reliance on natural gas generally and any deterioration of or increased uncertainty in the political or regulatory environment for California natural gas distribution companies and the risk of nonrecovery for stranded assets the pace of the development and adoption of new technologies in the energy sector, including those designed to support governmental and private party energy and climate goals, and our ability to timely and economically incorporate them into our business weather, natural disasters, pandemics, accidents, equipment failures, explosions, acts of terrorism, information system outages or other events that disrupt our operations, damage our facilities and systems, cause the release of harmful materials, cause fires or subject us to liability for property damage or personal injuries, fines and penalties, some of which may not be covered by insurance, may be disputed by insurers or may otherwise not be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms or may impact our ability to obtain satisfactory levels of affordable insurance the availability of electric power and natural gas and natural gas storage capacity, including disruptions caused by failures in the transmission grid or limitations on the withdrawal of natural gas from storage facilities the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including potential vaccination mandates, on capital projects, regulatory approvals and the execution of our operations cybersecurity threats to the energy grid, storage and pipeline infrastructure, information and systems used to operate our businesses, and confidentiality of our proprietary information and personal information of our customers and employees, including ransomware attacks on our systems and the systems of third-party vendors and other parties with which we conduct 9 Table of C ontents business, all of which may become more pronounced in the event of geopolitical events and other uncertainties, such as the conflict in Ukraine the impact at SDG E on competitive customer rates and reliability due to the growth in distributed and local power generation, including from departing retail load resulting from customers transferring to CCA and DA, and the risk of nonrecovery for stranded assets and contractual obligations Oncor s ability to eliminate or reduce its quarterly dividends due to regulatory and governance requirements and commitments, including by actions of Oncor s independent directors or a minority member director volatility in foreign currency exchange, inflation and interest rates and commodity prices, including inflationary pressures in the U.S., and our ability to effectively hedge these risks and with respect to inflation and interest rates, the impact on SDG E s and SoCalGas cost of capital and the affordability of customer rates changes in tax and trade policies, laws and regulations, including tariffs and revisions to international trade agreements that may increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness, or impair our ability to resolve trade disputes other uncertainties, some of which may be difficult to predict and are beyond our control We caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. You should review and consider carefully the risks, uncertainties and other factors that affect our business as described herein and in other reports that we file with the SEC. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks you should understand before making an investment decision in our securities or the securities of our subsidiaries. This summary is not intended to be complete and should only be read together with the information set forth in Part I