Item 1 Business 3 Introduction 3 Information Related to Business Segments 3 Information with Respect to Our Business in General 5 Item 1A Risk Factors 14 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 1C Cybersecurity 25 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Ordinary Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6 Reserved 29 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 30 Introduction 30 Financial Measures 30 Revenues-Defined 31 General Overview and Executive Summary 31 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 33 Results of Operations 33 Liquidity and Capital Resources 38 Capital Expenditures 42 Material Future Cash Obligations and Commercial Commitments 43 Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information 43 Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 45 Forward-Looking Statements 50 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Interest Rate Risk 52 Foreign Currency Risk 52 Commodity Risk 52 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 107 Item 9B Other Information 109 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 109 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 110 Item 11 Executive Compensation 110 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 110 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 110 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 110 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 111 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 115 Signatures 116 2 Table of Contents PART I Throughout this Annual Report, STERIS plc and its subsidiaries together are called "STERIS," "the Company," "we," "us," or "our," unless otherwise noted. References in this Annual Report to a particular "year," "fiscal," "fiscal year," or "year-end" mean our fiscal year, which ends on March 31. For example, fiscal year 2024 ended on March 31, 2024. ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION STERIS is a leading global provider of products and services that support patient care with an emphasis on infection prevention. WE HELP OUR CUSTOMERS CREATE A HEALTHIER AND SAFER WORLD by providing innovative healthcare and life science products and services around the globe. We offer our Customers a unique mix of innovative products and services. These include: consumable products, such as detergents, endoscopy accessories, barrier products, instruments and tools; and services, including equipment installation and maintenance, microbial reduction of medical devices, instrument and scope repair, laboratory testing, outsourced reprocessing; and capital equipment, such as sterilizers, surgical tables, and automated endoscope reprocessors, and connectivity solutions such as operating room ( OR ) integrati on. We operate and report our financial information in three reportable business segments: Healthcare, Applied Sterilization Technologies ("AST"), and Life Sciences. Previously, we had four reportable business segments; however, as a result of the agreement to divest our Dental segment, Dental is presented as discontinued operations. Historical information has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect these changes for comparability, as required. For more information, refer to Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements titled, "Discontinued Operations." Non-allocated operating costs that support the entire Company and items not indicative of operating trends are excluded from segment operating income. We describe our business segments in the section that follows, titled "Information Related to Business Segments" and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements titled, "Business Segment Information." The bulk of our revenues are derived from healthcare, medical device and pharmaceutical Customers. Much of the growth in these industries is driven by the aging of the population throughout the world, as an increasing number of individuals are entering their prime healthcare consumption years, and is dependent upon advancement in healthcare delivery, acceptance of new technologies, government policies, and general economic conditions. In addition, there is increased demand for medical procedures, including preventive screenings such as endoscopies and colonoscopies; and a desire by our Customers to operate more efficiently, all which are driving increased demand for many of our products and services. INFORMATION RELATED TO BUSINESS SEGMENTS Our chief operating decision maker is our President and Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ). The CEO is responsible for performance assessment and resource allocation. The CEO regularly receives discrete financial information about each reportable segment and uses this information to assess performance and allocate resources. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements titled, Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of this Annual Report. HEALTHCARE SEGMENT Description of Busi ness. Our Healthcare segment provides a comprehensive offering for healthcare providers worldwide, focused on sterile processing departments and procedural centers, such as operating rooms and endoscopy suites. Our products and services range from infection prevention consumables and capital equipment, as well as services to maintain that equipment; to the repair of re-usable procedural instruments; to outsourced instrument reprocessing services. In addition, our procedural solutions also include endoscopy accessories, instruments, and capital equipment infrastructure used primarily in operating rooms, ambulatory surgery centers, endoscopy suites, and other procedural areas. Products Offered. Our products include cleaning chemistries and sterility assurance products, automated endoscope reprocessing systems and tracking products, endoscopy accessories, instruments, washers, sterilizers and other pieces of capital equipment essential to the operations of a sterile processing department and equipment used directly in the procedure rooms, including surgical tables, lights, equipment management services, and connectivity solutions. Services Offered. Our Healthcare segment service employees install, maintain, upgrade, repair, and troubleshoot capital equipment throughout the world. We offer various preventive maintenance programs and repair services to support the effective operation of capital equipment over its lifetime. Our Healthcare segment also provides comprehensive instrument, devices, and endoscope repair and maintenance services (on-site or at one of our dedicated facilities), custom process improvement consulting and outsourced instrument sterile processing (on-site at the hospital and in off-site reprocessing centers). 3 Table of Contents Customer Concentration. Our Healthcare segment sells consumables, services and capital equipment, to Customers in many countries throughout the world. For the year ended March 31, 2024, no Customer represented more than 10% of the Healthcare segment's total revenues. Competition. We compete with a number of large companies that have significant product portfolios and global reach, as well as a number of small companies with very limited product offerings and operations in one or a limited number of countries. On a product basis, competitors include 3M, Baxter, Boston Scientific, Belimed, Fortive, Getinge, Karl Storz, Olympus, Ruhof, SteelCo, Stryker, Skytron and Wassenburg. On a service line basis, competitors include Agiliti, BBraun, Crothall, Olympus and Pentax. AST SEGMENT Description of Business. Our AST segment supports medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturers through a global network of contract sterilization and laboratory testing facilities, and integrated sterilization equipment and control systems. Our technology-neutral offering supports Customers every step of the way, from testing through sterilization. Services Offered. We offer a wide range of sterilization modalities and an array of testing services that complement the manufacturing of single use, sterile products. Our facilities are located in regions with a concentration of medical device manufacturing throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia. Our technical professionals support Customers in all phases of product development, materials testing, and process validation. In addition, we manufacture and supply integrated sterilization equipment and control systems to medical device manufacturers and research institutions. Products Offered. We support Customers with process controls and monitoring systems, and integrated sterilization equipment, including accelerators, product handling, and automation. Customer Concentration. Our AST segment s services are offered to Customers throughout the world. For the year ended March 31, 2024, no Customer represented more than 10% of the segment s revenues. Competition. AST operates in a highly regulated industry and competes with Sterigenics International, Inc., other smaller contract sterilization companies, other manufacturers of sterilization equipment and control systems, and manufacturers that sterilize products in-house. LIFE SCIENCES SEGMENT Description of Business. Our Life Sciences segment provides a comprehensive offering of products and services designed to support biopharmaceutical and medical device research and manufacturing facilities, in particular those focused on aseptic manufacturing. Our portfolio includes a full suite of consumable products, equipment maintenance, specialty services, and capital equipment. Products Offered. These products include pharmaceutical detergents, cleanroom disinfectants and sterilants, pharmaceutical grade and research sterilizers and washers, sterility assurance and maintenance products, vaporized hydrogen peroxide room decontamination systems and sterilizers, and high purity water and pure steam generators. Services Offered. Our Life Sciences segment service employees install, maintain, upgrade, repair, and troubleshoot equipment throughout the world. We offer various preventive maintenance programs and repair services to support the effective operation of capital equipment over its lifetime. Customer Concentration. Our Life Sciences segment sells consumables, services and capital equipment to Customers globally. For the year ended March 31, 2024, no Customer represented more than 10% of the Life Sciences segment s total revenues. Competition. Our Life Sciences segment operates in highly regulated environments where the most intense competition results from technological innovations, product performance, convenience and ease of use, and overall cost-effectiveness. We compete for pharmaceutical Customers with a number of large companies that have significant product portfolios and global reach, as well as a number of small companies with very limited product offerings and operations in one or a limited number of countries. Competitors include Belimed, Contec, Ecolab, Fedegari, Getinge, and Stilmas. 4 Table of Contents INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO OUR BUSINESS IN GENERAL Sources and Availability of Raw Materials. We purchase raw materials, sub-assemblies, components, and other supplies needed in our operations from numerous suppliers in the United States and internationally. The principal raw materials and supplies used in our operations include stainless and carbon steel, organic and inorganic chemicals, fuel, and plastic components. These raw materials and supplies are generally available from several suppliers and in sufficient quantities. However, in fiscal 2023 and 2024 we experienced delays in receiving materials and significant cost increases. Our supply chain challenges eased during the second half of fiscal 2024 and we do not currently expect significant disruption to our operations due to sourcing delays in fiscal 2025. We anticipate continued inflation pressures in fiscal 2025 but not at the significant level experienced in fiscal 2024 and 2023.We have long-term supply contracts for certain materials for which there are few suppliers, or those that are single-sourced in certain regions of the world, such as ethylene oxide ("EO") and cobalt-60, which are necessary to our AST operations. In addition, we continue to expand our irradiation processing capacity with accelerator-based technologies, in order to help mitigate the potential cobalt-60 supply risk. In response to the active conflict between Russian and Ukraine, we stopped purchasing cobalt-60 from our Russian supplier in fiscal 2023. A long-term disruption in cobalt-60 sourced from Russia may negatively impact gamma processing capacity or increase costs in certain portions of our AST operations but these impacts are not expected to be material to our AST segment and its results of operations. For additional information about the risks we face concerning the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report titled, "Risk Factors." Inflation. Historically, our business has not been significantly impacted by the overall effects of inflation. However, during fiscal 2023 and 2024, we experienced a rise in supply chain and labor costs and anticipate continued inflationary pressure in fiscal 2025 but not at the significant level experienced in fiscal 2024 and 2023 . We monitor the prices we charge for our products and services on an ongoing basis and plan to adjust those prices to take into account future changes in the rate of inflation. Intellectual Property. We protect our technology and products by, among other means, obtaining United States and foreign patents. There can be no assurance, however, that any patent will provide adequate protection for the technology, system, product, service, or process it covers. In addition, the process of obtaining and protecting patents can be long and expensive. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. As of March 31, 2024, we held 630 United States patents and 2,531 patents in other jurisdictions and had 147 United States patent applications and 334 patent applications pending in other jurisdictions. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of filing or grant and legal term of patents in various countries where a patent is obtained. The actual protection a patent provides varies from country to country and depends in part upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, and the availability of legal remedies in each country. Our products are sold around the world under various brand names and trademarks. We consider our brand names and trademarks to be valuable in the marketing of our products. As of March 31, 2024, we had a total of approximately 2,550 trademark registrations worldwide. Quality Assurance. We manufacture, assemble, and package products in several countries. Each of our production facilities are dedicated to particular processes and products. Our success depends upon Customer confidence in the quality of our production process and the integrity of the data that supports our product safety and effectiveness. We have implemented quality assurance procedures to support the quality and integrity of scientific information and production processes. Government Regulation. Our business is subject to various degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ), the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and other governmental authorities regulate the development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of our products and services. Our international operations also are subject to a significant amount of government regulation, including country-specific rules and regulations and U.S. regulations applicable to our international operations. Government regulations require detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and development, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record-keeping, storage, and disposal practices. Compliance with applicable regulations is a significant expense for us. Past, current or future regulations, their interpretation, or their application could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Also, additional governmental regulation may be passed that could prevent, delay, revoke, or result in the rejection of regulatory clearance of our products. We cannot predict the effect on our operations resulting from current or future governmental regulation or the interpretation or application of these regulations. If we fail to comply with any applicable regulatory requirements, penalties could be imposed on us. For more information about the risks we face regarding regulatory requirements, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report titled, "Risk Factors." We 5 Table of Contents are subject to extensive regulatory requirements and must receive and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for many products and operations. Failure to receive or maintain, or delays in receiving, clearance or approvals may hurt our revenues, profitability, financial condition, or value. In the past, we have received warning letters, paid civil penalties, conducted product recalls and field corrections, and been subject to other regulatory penalties. We believe that we are currently compliant in all material respects with applicable regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that future or current regulatory, governmental, or private action will not have a material adverse effect on us or on our performance, results, or financial condition. Environmental Matters. We are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in Ireland, the United States and other countries. We have made, and continue to make, significant investments to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot predict the future capital expenditures or operating costs required to comply with environmental laws and regulations. We believe that we are currently compliant with applicable environmental, health, and safety requirements in all material respects. However, there can be no assurance that future or current regulatory, governmental, or private action will not have a material adverse effect on our performance, results, or financial condition. Please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements titled, "Commitments and Contingencies" for further information. In the future, if a loss contingency related to environmental matters, employee safety, health or conditional asset retirement obligations which is estimable and probable is significantly greater than the current recorded amount, we would record an additional liability for the obligation and it may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which the liability is recorded. The investigation and remediation of environmental obligations generally occur over an extended period of time, and therefore we do not know if these events would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, or cash flow, nor can there be any assurance that such liabilities would not have a material adverse effect on our performance, results, or financial condition. Competition. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and generally highly regulated. Competition is intense in all of our business segments and includes many large and small competitors. Brand, design, quality, safety, ease of use, serviceability, price, product features, warranty, delivery, service, and technical support are important competitive factors to us. We expect to face continued competition in the future as new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, gastrointestinal and surgical support products and services enter the market. We believe many organizations are working with a variety of technologies and sterilizing agents. We believe that our long-term competitive position depends on our success in discovering, developing, and marketing innovative, cost-effective products and services. We devote significant resources to research and development efforts, and we believe STERIS is positioned as a global competitor in the search for technological innovations. In addition to research and development, we invest in quality control, Customer training programs, distribution systems, technical services, and other information services. There can be no assurance that we will develop significant new products or services, or that the new products or services we provide or develop in the future will be more commercially successful than those provided or developed by our competitors. In addition, some of our existing or potential competitors may have greater resources than us. Therefore, a competitor may succeed in developing and commercializing products more rapidly than we do. Competition, as it relates to our business segments and product categories, is discussed in more detail in the section above titled, Information Related to Business Segments. Methods of Distribution. Sales and service activities are supported by a staff of regionally based clinical specialists, system planners, corporate account managers, and in-house Customer service and field support departments. We also contract with distributors and dealers. Customer training is important to our business. We provide a variety of courses at Customer locations, at our training and education centers, and over the internet. Our training programs help Customers understand the science, technology, and operation of our products and services. Many of our operator training programs are approved by professional certifying organizations and offer continuing education credits to eligible course participants. Seasonality. Our financial results have been, from time to time, subject to seasonal patterns. We cannot assure you that these patterns will not continue. Backlog. We define backlog as the amount of unfilled capital equipment purchase orders at a point in time. At March 31, 2024, we had a backlog of $425.2 million. Of this amount, $353.8 million and $71.4 million related to our Healthcare and Life Sciences segments, respectively. At March 31, 2023, we had backlog orders of $599.6 million. Of this amount, $494.7 million and $104.9 million related to our Healthcare and Life Sciences segments, respectively. Backlog declined in fiscal 2024 as supply chain delays eased allowing us to reduce lead times and backlog. 6 Table of Contents Availability of Securities and Exchange Commission Filings. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). You may access these documents, as well as other SEC filings related to the Company, on the Investor Relations page of our website at http://www.steris-ir.com . You may also obtain copies of these documents by accessing the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov . The content on or accessible through any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Code of Ethics, and our Code of Business Conduct, as well as the Charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Organization Development Committee, the Nominating and Governance Committee, and the Compliance and Technology Committee of the Company s Board of Directors. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Introduction WE HELP OUR CUSTOMERS CREATE A HEALTHIER AND SAFER WORLD by providing innovative healthcare and life sciences products and services around the globe. Inspired by our Customers efforts to create a healthier and safer world, and guided by our legacy of leadership and innovation, we strive to be a Great Company. To STERIS, this means we will make a difference by providing world-class products and services for our Customers, safe and rewarding work for our People, and superior returns for our Shareholders. We have an Enterprise Risk Management process ("ERM") to manage risk, which is led by our Chief Compliance Officer. Identifying and managing key risks to our business operations are essential to our future growth, profitability, and successful execution of strategic plans. We are committed to understanding and managing these risks through a consistent approach to risk assessment, monitoring, reporting, and mitigation. Key management sponsors are responsible for participating in the risk assessment process, including a periodic review with the Board of Directors. The objective of ERM is to identify key risks, the potential impacts of compliance failure, identify key mitigating activities, develop potential improvements for managing the risks, and to ensure execution of oversight activities on a monthly, annual or as needed basis. Our Corporate Responsibility function is led by the Vice President of ESG. The Corporate Responsibility function, with support from our CEO, General Counsel and other senior executives, works to actively develop and refine our Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") strategies, programs, and policies. The Corporate Responsibility function works closely with our Global Sustainability Steering Committee to build ESG values and implement strategies, programs, and policies across the Company. The Global Sustainability Steering Committee is a cross-functional team of senior leadership, subcommittee chairs, and subject matter experts spanning our businesses and Legal, Investor Relations, Human Resources, Continuous Improvement, Compliance, Facilities, and Health, Safety and Environment functions. The Corporate Responsibility team regularly updates the Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors regarding its activities, including evaluating carbon emissions, preparing for regulatory requirements, reporting ESG metrics, and reviewing ESG ratings. Key performance indicators and metrics have been established for those areas we believe to be relevant and potentially significant to our business. Certain of these disclosures relate to Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB") Standards for Medical Equipment Supplies that we have identified to be closely aligned with our business. Our reporting against the SASB Standards is a voluntary disclosure aligned with our focus on financial materiality. We seek to provide investors with useful, relevant and meaningful sustainability information and have selected metrics under the SASB Standards. We describe below how we continuously monitor and track our policies and activities in the areas of ethical business practices, energy and environmental conservation, employees and human capital management, and quality. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Code of Business Conduct. Our Code of Business Conduct sets the standard for legal and ethical behavior, addressing topics such as bribery and corruption, supply chain transparency, proper behavior in the workplace, and avoiding conflicts of interest. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption. We are committed to conducting our business fairly, honorably, with integrity and in compliance with the law in all jurisdictions where we operate. Our policy prohibits bribery and corruption in any form, and we explain our commitment in our Statement on Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures. As an ongoing due diligence measure, we have established a program to recognize those sales and marketing intermediaries who demonstrate an elevated commitment to compliance. Through this Commercial Compliance Program, we formally recognize organizations that have not only met STERIS's standard ethical requirements for inclusion in our network but have also taken additional steps, such as adopting their own code of conduct and training their employees on their own firm's ethical values, to ensure compliant behavior. In 2024, STERIS incurred no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery or corruption. Supplier Code of Conduct. Our expectations for ethical behavior extend beyond STERIS to our Suppliers as well. Our Supplier Code of Conduct defines the minimum requirements and expectations for all Suppliers and their subcontractors. We have mechanisms in place to identify when suppliers do not meet our Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. Suspicions of 7 Table of Contents supplier non-compliance are promptly investigated and addressed. We believe in conducting business with integrity and honesty and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. We expect our suppliers to comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate, including but not limited to the European Union Customs Code, the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the UK Modern Slavery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, the US Dodd-Frank Conflict Minerals Rules, applicable data privacy laws, and all applicable local labor and employment laws. Conflict Minerals Sourcing Policy . We file reports with the SEC disclosing our use of ti