Item 1 Business 3 Introduction 3 Information Related to Business Segments 4 Information with Respect to Our Business in General 5 Item 1A Risk Factors 14 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2 Properties 23 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Ordinary Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6 Re served 27 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Introduction 28 Financial Measures 28 Revenues-Defined 29 General Overview and Executive Summary 29 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 32 Results of Operations 32 Liquidity and Capital Resources 37 Capital Expenditures 42 Material Future Cash Obligations a nd Commercial Commitments 42 Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information 43 Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 45 Forward-Looking Statements 50 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51 Interest Rate Risk 51 Foreign Currency Risk 51 Commodity Risk 51 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B Other Information 105 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 105 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 106 Item 11 Executive Compensation 106 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 106 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 106 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 106 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 107 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 111 Signatures 112 2 Table of Contents PART I Throughout this Annual Report, STERIS plc and its subsidiaries together are called "STERIS," "the Company," "we," "us," or "our," unless otherwise noted. References in this Annual Report to a particular "year," "fiscal," "fiscal year," or "year-end" mean our fiscal year, which ends on March 31. For example, fiscal year 2022 ended on March 31, 2022. ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION STERIS is a leading global provider of products and services that support patient care with an emphasis on infection prevention. WE HELP OUR CUSTOMERS CREATE A HEALTHIER AND SAFER WORLD by providing innovative healthcare, life sciences and dental products and services. We offer our Customers a unique mix of innovative consumable products, such as detergents, gastrointestinal ( GI ) endoscopy accessories, barrier product solutions, and other products and services, including: equipment installation and maintenance, microbial reduction of medical devices, dental instruments and tools, instrument and scope repair, laboratory testing services, outsourced reprocessing, and capital equipment products, such as sterilizers and surgical tables, automated endoscope reprocessors, and connectivity solutions such as operating room ( OR ) integrati on. We operate our business and report our financial information in four reportable business segments: Healthcare, Applied Sterilization Technologies, Life Sciences and Dental. Non-allocated operating costs that support the entire Company and items not indicative of operating trends are excluded from segment operating income. We disclose a measure of segment income that is consistent with the way management operates and views the business. The accounting policies for reportable segments are the same as those for the consolidated Company. The bulk of our revenues are derived from the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries. Much of the growth in these industries is driven by the aging of the population throughout the world, as an increasing number of individuals are entering their prime healthcare consumption years, and is dependent upon advancement in healthcare delivery, acceptance of new technologies, government policies, and general economic conditions. The pharmaceutical industry has been impacted by increased regulatory scrutiny of cleaning and validation processes, mandating that manufacturers improve their processes. Within healthcare, there is increased concern regarding the level of hospital acquired infections around the world; increased demand for medical procedures, including preventive screenings such as endoscopies and colonoscopies; and a desire by our Customers to operate more efficiently, all which are driving increased demand for many of our products and services. On June 2, 2021, we acquired all outstanding equity interests in Cantel Medical LLC ("Cantel") through a U.S. subsidiary. Cantel, formerly headquartered in Little Falls, New Jersey, with approximately 3,700 employees, is a global provider of infection prevention products and services primarily to endoscopy and dental Customers. We believe that the acquisition will strengthen STERIS s leadership in infection prevention by bringing together two complementary businesse s able to offer a broader set of Customers a more diversified selection of infection prevention, endoscopy and sterilization products and services. Cantel s Dental business extends our business into a new Customer segment where there is an increasing focus on infection prevention protocols and processes. This business is reported as the Dental segment. The rest of Cantel was integrated into our existing Healthcare and Life Sciences segments. Additionally, the acquisition is expected to result in cost savings from optimizing global back-office infrastructure, leveraging best-demonstrated practices across locations and eliminating redundant public company costs. We do not believe that the COVID-19 pandemic has had a material impact on our operations, as we have been able to continue to operate our manufacturing facilities and meet the demand for essential products and services of our Customers. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented several measures that we believe helped us protect the health and safety of our employees, preserve liquidity and enhance our financial flexibility. We have successfully managed our liquidity throughout the COVID-19 pandemic and continue to invest in expansion projects as planned. We obtained addi tional funding in the second half o f fiscal 2021 to continue to advance our growth strategy to supplement organic growth with acquisitions. As a result, we do not believe that the COVID-19 pandemic or the actions we took in respo nse to the pandemic will negatively impact our long-term ability to generate revenues or meet existing and future financial obligations. While we have been impacted and expect this situation to continue to have an impact on our business, we cannot predict the impact that another significant wave of disruption would have on our results of operations and financial position. For additional information and our risk factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic, please refer to Part I Item 1A titled, "Risk Factors." 3 Table of Contents INFORMATION RELATED TO BUSINESS SEGMENTS Our chief operating decision maker is our President and Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ). The CEO is responsible for performance assessment and resource allocation. The CEO regularly receives discrete financial information about each reportable segment and uses this information to assess performance and allocate resources. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of this Annual Report. HEALTHCARE SEGMENT Description of Busi ness. Our Healthcare segment provides a comprehensive offering for healthcare providers worldwide, focused on sterile processing departments and procedural centers, such as operating rooms and endoscopy suites. Our products and services range from infection prevention consumables and capital equipment, as well as services to maintain that equipment; to the repair of re-usable procedural instruments; to outsourced instrument reprocessing services. In addition, our procedural solutions also include single-use devices and capital equipment infrastructure used primarily in operating rooms, ambulatory surgery centers, endoscopy suites, and other procedural areas. Products Offered. Our products include cleaning chemistries and sterility assurance products, automated endoscope reprocessing systems and tracking products, accessories for GI procedures, washers, sterilizers and other pieces of capital equipment essential to the operations of a sterile processing department ("SPD") and equipment used directly in the operating room, including surgical tables, lights, equipment management services, and connectivity solutions. Services Offered. Our Healthcare segment service employees install, maintain, upgrade, repair, and troubleshoot capital equipment throughout the world. We offer various preventive maintenance programs and repair services to support the effective operation of capital equipment over its lifetime. Our Healthcare segment also provides comprehensive instrument and endoscope repair and maintenance services (on-site or at one of our dedicated facilities), custom process improvement consulting and outsourced instrument sterile processing (on-site at the hospital and in off-site reprocessing centers). Customer Concentration. Our Healthcare segment sells consumables, services and capital equipment, to Customers in many countries throughout the world. For the year ended March 31, 2022, no Customer represented more than 10% of the Healthcare Product segment's total revenues. Competition. We compete with a number of large companies that have significant product portfolios and global reach, as well as a number of small companies with very limited product offerings and operations in one or a limited number of countries. On a product basis, competitors include 3M, Baxter, Boston Scientific, Belimed, Ecolab, ERBE, Fortive, Getinge, Karl Storz, Metrex, Olympus, Ruhof, SteelCo, Stryker, Skytron and Wassenburg. On a service line basis, competitors include Agiliti, BBraun, Berendsen plc, CleanLease (Clean Lease Fortex), Mobile, Northfield, Olympus, Owens Minor, Pentax, Rentex Aw and Rentex Floren and Sterilog Limited. APPLIED STERILIZATION TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT Description of Business. Our Applied Sterilization Technologies ("AST") segment is a third-party service provider for contract sterilization, as well as testing services needed to validate sterility services for medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Our technology-neutral offering supports Customers every step of the way, from testing through sterilization. Services Offered. We offer a wide range of sterilization modalities as well as an array of testing services that complements the manufacturing of sterile products. Our locations are in major population centers and core distribution corridors throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. Our technical services group supports Customers in all phases of product development, materials testing, and process validation. Customer Concentration. Our Applied Sterilization Technologies segment s services are offered to Customers throughout the world. For the year ended March 31, 2022, no Customer represented more than 10% of the segment s revenues. Competition. Applied Sterilization Technologies operates in a highly regulated industry and competes with Sterigenics International, Inc., other smaller contract sterilization companies and manufacturers that sterilize products in-house. LIFE SCIENCES SEGMENT Description of Business. Our Life Sciences segment provides a comprehensive offering of products and services that support pharmaceutical manufacturing, primarily for vaccine and other biopharma Customers focused on aseptic manufacturing. These solutions include a full suite of consumable products, equipment maintenance and specialty services, and capital equipment. Products Offered. These products include formulated cleaning chemistries, barrier products, sterility assurance products, steam and vaporized hydrogen peroxide sterilizers and washer disinfectors. 4 Table of Contents Services Offered. Our Life Sciences segment service employees install, maintain, upgrade, repair, and troubleshoot equipment throughout the world. We offer various preventive maintenance programs and repair services to support the effective operation of capital equipment over its lifetime. Customer Concentration. Our Life Sciences segment sells consumables, services and capital equipment, to Customers in many countries throughout the world. For the year ended March 31, 2022, no Customer represented more than 10% of the Life Sciences segment s total revenues. Competition. Our Life Sciences segment operates in highly regulated environments where the most intense competition results from technological innovations, product performance, convenience and ease of use, and overall cost-effectiveness. We compete for pharmaceutical Customers with a number of large companies that have significant product portfolios and global reach, as well as a number of small companies with very limited product offerings and operations in one or a limited number of countries. Competitors include Belimed, Ecolab, Fedegari, Getinge, MECO, Stilmas, and Techniplast. DENTAL SEGMENT Description of Business. As a result of the acquisition of Cantel, we reassessed the organization of our business and have added a new segment called Dental. Our Dental segment provides a comprehensive offering for dental practitioners and dental schools, offering instruments, infection prevention consumables and instrument management systems. Products Offered. Our products include hand and powered dental instruments, infection control products, personal protective equipment and water quality products for the dental suite. Customer Concentration. Our dental products are sold globally to wholesale Customers and directly to end users in many countries. Our wholesale Customers primarily include major healthcare distributors, with some group purchasing organizations and buying co-operatives that sell our products to dental practices, medical facilities, veterinary clinics, and government and educational institutions. The majority of our dental products are sold under our brand names, but we also supply private label products for several of our Customers. Three Customers collectively and consistently account for more than 40.0% of our Dental segment revenue. The percentage associated with these three Customers collectively in any one period may vary due to the buying patterns of these three Customers as well as other Dental Customers. These three Customers collectively accounted for approximately 45.1% of our Dental segment revenues for the year ended March 31, 2022. Competition. We compete with a number of large companies that have significant product portfolios and global reach, as well as a number of small companies with very limited product offerings. On a product basis, competitors include 3M, Amcor, ASP, Braun/Aesculap, Danaher/Sybron, Dentsply/Sultan Healthcare, J J/Ethicon, Halyard Health, LM Dental, Medicom, Porter Instrument, ProEdge, Sterisil, Young Dental, and less expensive products from Asia and other lower cost manufacturing locations. INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO OUR BUSINESS IN GENERAL Sources and Availability of Raw Materials. We purchase raw materials, sub-assemblies, components, and other supplies needed in our operations from numerous suppliers in the United States and internationally. The principal raw materials and supplies used in our operations include stainless and carbon steel, organic and inorganic chemicals, fuel, and plastic components. These raw materials and supplies are generally available from several suppliers and in sufficient quantities. However, in fiscal 2022 we have experienced delays in receiving materials and significant cost increases that we expect will continue in fiscal 2023. We do not currently expect any significant disruption to our operations due to sourcing problems in fiscal 2023. We have long-term supply contracts for certain materials for which there are few suppliers, or those that are single-sourced in certain regions of the world, such as ethylene oxide ("EO") and cobalt-60, which are necessary to our AST operations. In addition, we have developed a plan to expand our irradiation processing capacity with accelerator-based technologies, which may reduce the potential supply risk. In response to the active conflict between Russian and Ukraine, we have stopped purchasing cobalt-60 from our Russian supplier. A long-term disruption in cobalt-60 sourced from Russia may negatively impact gamma processing capacity or increase costs in certain portions of our AST operations but these impacts are not expected to be material to our AST segment and its results of operations. For additional information about the risks we face concerning the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report titled, "Risk Factors." Inflation. Historically, our business has not been significantly impacted by the overall effects of inflation. However during fiscal 2022, we experienced a rise in supply chain and labor costs and anticipate continued supply chain and inflation pressure in fiscal 2023. We monitor the prices we charge for our products and services on an ongoing basis and plan to adjust those prices to take into account future changes in the rate of inflation. Intellectual Property. We protect our technology and products by, among other means, obtaining United States and foreign patents. There can be no assurance, however, that any patent will provide adequate protection for the technology, system, product, service, or process it covers. In addition, the process of obtaining and protecting patents can be long and expensive. 5 Table of Contents We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our co mpetitive position. As of March 31, 2022, we held approximately 566 United States patents and approximately 2,346 in other jurisdictions and had approximately 188 United States patent applications and 428 patent applications pending in other jurisdictions. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of filing or grant and legal term of patents in various countries where a patent is obtained. The actual protection a patent provides varies from country to country and depends in part upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, and the availability of legal remedies in each country. Our products are sold around the world under various brand names and trademarks. We consider our brand names and trademarks to be valuable in the marketing of our products. As of March 31, 2022, we had a total of approximately 2,463 trademark registrations worldwide. Quality Assurance. We manufacture, assemble, and package products in several countries. Each of our production facilities are dedicated to particular processes and products. Our success depends upon Customer confidence in the quality of our production process and the integrity of the data that supports our product safety and effectiveness. We have implemented quality assurance procedures to support the quality and integrity of scientific information and production processes. Government Regulation. Our business is subject to various degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ), the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ( NRC ), and other governmental authorities regulate the development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of our products and services. Our international operations also are subject to a significant amount of government regulation, including country-specific rules and regulations and U.S. regulations applicable to our international operations. Government regulations require detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and development, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record-keeping, storage, and disposal practices. Compliance with applicable regulations is a significant expense for us. Past, current or future regulations, their interpretation, or their application could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Also, additional governmental regulation may be passed that could prevent, delay, revoke, or result in the rejection of regulatory clearance of our products. We cannot predict the effect on our operations resulting from current or future governmental regulation or the interpretation or application of these regulations. If we fail to comply with any applicable regulatory requirements, penalties could be imposed on us. For more information about the risks we face regarding regulatory requirements, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report titled, "Risk Factors." We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements and must receive and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for many products and operations. Failure to receive or maintain, or delays in receiving, clearance or approvals may hurt our revenues, profitability, financial condition, or value. In the past, we have received warning letters, paid civil penalties, conducted product recalls and field corrections, and been subject to other regulatory penalties. We believe that we are currently compliant in all material respects with applicable regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that future or current regulatory, governmental, or private action will not have a material adverse affect on us or on our performance, results, or financial condition. Environmental Matters. We are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in Ireland, the United States and other countries. We have made, and continue to make, significant investments to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot predict the future capital expenditures or operating costs required to comply with environmental laws and regulations. We believe that we are currently compliant with applicable environmental, health, and safety requirements in all material respects. However, there can be no assurance that future or current regulatory, governmental, or private action will not have a material adverse affect on our performance, results, or financial condition. Please refer to Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements titled, "Commitments and Contingencies" for further information. In the future, if a loss contingency related to environmental matters, employee safety, health or conditional asset retirement obligations is significantly greater than the current estimated amount, we would record a liability for the obligation and it may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which the liability is recorded. The investigation and remediation of environmental obligations generally occur over an extended period of time, and therefore we do not know if these events would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, liquidity, or cash flow, nor can there be any assurance that such liabilities would not have a material adverse affect on our performance, results, or financial condition. 6 Table of Contents Competition. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and generally highly regulated. Competition is intense in all of our business segments and includes many large and small competitors. Brand, design, quality, safety, ease of use, serviceability, price, product features, warranty, delivery, service, and technical support are important competitive factors to us. We expect to face continued competition in the future as new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, gastrointestinal and surgical support products and services enter the market. We believe many organizations are working with a variety of technologies and sterilizing agents. Also, a number of companies have developed disposable medical instruments and other devices designed to address the risk of contamination. We believe that our long-term competitive position depends on our success in discovering, developing, and marketing innovative, cost-effective products and services. We devote significant resources to research and development efforts and we believe STERIS is positioned as a global competitor in the search for technological innovations. In addition to research and development, we invest in quality control, Customer training programs, distribution systems, technical services, and other information services. There can be no assurance that we will develop significant new products or services, or that the new products or services we provide or develop in the future will be more commercially successful than those provided or developed by our competitors. In addition, some of our existing or potential competitors may have greater resources than us. Therefore, a competitor may succeed in developing and commercializing products more rapidly than we do. Competition, as it relates to our business segments and product categories, is discussed in more detail in the section above titled, Information Related to Business Segments. Methods of Distribution. Sales and service activities are supported by a staff of regionally based clinical specialists, system planners, corporate account managers, and in-house Customer service and field support departments. We also contract with distributors and dealers. Customer training is important to our business. We provide a variety of courses at Customer locations, at our training and education centers, and over the internet. Our training programs help Customers understand the science, technology, and operation of our products and services. Many of our operator training programs are approved by professional certifying organizations and offer continuing education credits to eligible course participants. Seasonality. Our financial results have been, from time to time, subject to seasonal patterns. We cannot assure you that these patterns will not continue. Backlog. We define backlog as the amount of unfilled capital equipment purchase orders at a point in time. At March 31, 2022, we had a backlog, excluding Cantel, of $528.3 million. Of this amount, $423.6 million and $104.7 million related to our Healthcare and Life Sciences segments, respectively. At March 31, 2021, we had backlog orders of $286.2 million. Of this amount, $206.3 million and $79.9 million related to our Healthcare and Life Sciences segments, respectively. Availability of Securities and Exchange Commission Filings. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). You may access these documents, as well as other SEC filings related to the Company, on the Investor Relations page of our website at http://www.steris-ir.com . You may also obtain copies of these documents by accessing the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov . The content on or accessible through any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Code of Ethics, and our Code of Business Conduct, as well as the Charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Organization Development Committee, the Nominating and Governance Committee, and the Compliance Committee of the Company s Board of Directors. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE Introduction WE HELP OUR CUSTOMERS CREATE A HEALTHIER AND SAFER WORLD by providing innovative healthcare, life sciences and dental products and services. Inspired by our Customers efforts to create a healthier and safer world, and guided by our legacy of leadership and innovation, we strive to be a Great Company. To STERIS, this means we will make a difference by providing world-class products and service solutions for our Customers, safe and rewarding work for our People, and superior returns for our Shareholders. We have an Enterprise Risk Management process ("ERM") to manage risk, which is led by our Chief Compliance Officer. Identifying and managing key risks to our business operations are essential to our future growth, profitability, and successful execution of strategic plans. We are committed to understanding and managing these risks through a consistent approach to risk assessment, monitoring, reporting, and mitigation. Key management sponsors are responsible for participating in the risk 7 Table of Contents assessment process, including a periodic review with the Board of Directors. The objective of ERM is to identify key risks, the potential impacts of compliance failure, identify key mitigating activities, develop potential improvements for managing the risks, and to ensure execution of oversight activities on a monthly, annual or as needed basis. We established a dedicated Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") function with the appointment of Vice President of ESG and are continuing to develop additional roles within the function. The ESG function, with support from our Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel and other senior executives, works to actively develop and refine our ESG strategies, programs, and