Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results or Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B. Other Information 78 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 79 Item 11. Executive Compensation 79 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 79 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 80 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 81 Exhibit Index 82 Signatures 85 Table of Contents PART I Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Throughout this report, or in other reports or registration statements filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or under the Securities Act of 1933, as well as in documents we incorporate by reference herein or herefrom, or in press releases or oral statements made by our officers or Regulation FD authorized representatives, we may make statements that express our opinions, expectations, or projections regarding future events or future results, in contrast with statements that reflect present or historical facts. These predictive statements, which we generally precede or accompany by such typical conditional words as anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, seek, project or expect, or by the words may, will, or should, are intended to operate as forward-looking statements of the kind permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, incorporated in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements involve both known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. That legislation protects such predictive and cautionary statements by creating a safe harbor from liability in the event that a particular prediction does not turn out as anticipated. While we always intend to express our best judgment when we make statements about what we believe will occur in the future, and although we base these statements on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when made, these forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance, and you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to many uncertainties and other variable circumstances, many of which are outside of our control, that could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from those we thought would occur. The following listing represents some, but not necessarily all, of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from those we may have anticipated or predicted: United States or foreign trade policy affecting the amount of, or tariffs on, foreign steel imported into the United States, or adverse or less than satisfactory outcomes of pending and future trade cases alleging unlawful practices in connection with steel imports; increased price competition brought about by global steelmaking overcapacity; increased price and other forms of competition from other steel producers, scrap processors and alternative materials; margin compression resulting from falling selling prices with no offsetting reduction in raw material costs, or our inability to pass increases in costs of raw materials and supplies, if any, onto our customers; the adverse impact of periods of slower than anticipated economic growth or the risk of a recession, resulting in a general decrease of demand for our products; the weakening of demand for steel products within the non-residential and residential construction, automotive, manufacturing, appliance, pipe and tube, and other steel-consuming industries; conditions affecting steel or recycled metals consumption; cyclical changes in market supply and demand for steel and recycled metals; changes in the availability or cost of raw materials, such as scrap metal, scrap substitute products such as pig iron and pelletized iron, and other supplies such as zinc, graphite electrodes and ferroalloys, or other raw materials, which we use in our production processes; periodic fluctuations in the availability and cost of electricity, natural gas, oil, or other energy resources; 1 Table of Contents the impact of, or changes in, environmental law or in the application of other legal or regulatory requirements upon our production processes or costs of production or upon those of our suppliers or customers, including actions by government agencies, such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency or related state agencies, upon our receipt of pending or future environmentally related construction or operating permits; the impact of United States government or various other governmental agencies introducing laws or regulatory changes in response to the subject of climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, including the introduction of carbon emissions limitations or trading mechanisms; increased cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities and increased global information technology security requirements, and a rise in sophisticated cybercrimes that pose a risk to the security and functionality of our systems and information networks and to the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary information, financial information, customer, supplier and business partner information, and personally identifiable information; changes in our business strategies or development plans which we have adopted or may adopt, and any difficulty or inability to timely, cost efficiently and successfully consummate, implement, integrate or operate any current, planned or potential construction or other projects, acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances; the impact of impairment charges; private or governmental liability claims or litigation, or the impact of any adverse litigation costs or outcome of any litigation on the adequacy of our reserves or the availability or adequacy of our insurance coverage; the occurrence of unanticipated equipment failures and plant outages; costs to idle facilities, idled facility carrying costs, or increased costs to resume production at idled facilities; and uncertainties involving new products or new technologies. We also refer you to and urge you to carefully read the section entitled Risk Factors at Item 1A of this report to better understand some of the principal risks and uncertainties inherent in our businesses or in owning our securities, as well as the section entitled Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations at Item 7 . You should also review the notes to consolidated financial statements under headings in Note 1. Use of Estimates and in Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies . Any forward-looking statements which we make in this report, or in any of the documents that are incorporated by reference herein or herefrom, speak only as of the date of such statement, and we undertake no ongoing obligation to update such statements. Comparisons of results between current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Steel Dynamics, Inc. is one of the largest domestic steel producers and metal recyclers in the United States, based on current estimated steelmaking and coating capacity of approximately 13 million tons and actual metals recycling volumes, with one of the most diversified, high-margin steel product portfolios. The company s primary sources of revenue are from the manufacture and sale of steel products, the processing and sale of recycled ferrous and nonferrous metals, and the fabrication and sale of steel joists and deck products. We believe our strategic focus to create value for our teams, customers, communities and shareholders is differentiated through our six Core Operating and Leadership Principles. These six pillars bring us together with a common focus and provide us the foundation upon which we operate and grow. Our six pillars and our team s execution of them each day has driven our success and sustainability. Safety Creating and maintaining a safe work environment is our number one value and first priority. We want every individual to go home safely at the end of each day and to take an active role in remaining safe both on the job and at home. Our goal is no accidents, no lost workdays, no injuries. Sustaining Superior Operating Culture Our entrepreneurial culture fosters a team of energetic, positive, driven and innovative individuals by utilizing open communication and meaningful performance-based compensation aligned to our strategic focus. This results in our safe, low-cost, and highly efficient operations, which drive best-in-class operating and financial performance. Enhancing Customer Relationships and Commitment We focus on being a preferred partner providing outstanding products and supply-chain solutions that exceed expectations, as we anticipate our customer s future needs and deliver greater value. Strategic Growth, Intentional Margin Expansion and Consistency Through the Cycle Our intentional, value-driven growth has propelled our diversification in both end markets and product offerings to sustain continued higher volume and profitability throughout both strong and weak market environments. We are squarely focused on continued strategic and responsible growth. Driving Innovation Through individual creativity and ingenuity, our teams drive innovation to improve safety, quality, productivity and resource sustainability. We utilize innovative technologies and processes in order to perform at the highest level, and consistently achieve excellence in all that we do. Financial Strength and Flexibility We have one of the most diversified steel product offerings in the industry. Coupled with high variability of our operating costs and our vertically connected business platforms, this results in higher utilization and lower costs, providing strong cash flow generation through both strong and weak market cycles. Competitive Strengths / Business Strategies We believe our financial strength and flexibility, coupled with our competitive advantages of maintaining a low, highly variable cost structure, producing a diversified value-added product offering, controlling a secure supply of recycled ferrous metals, fostering an entity-wide entrepreneurial culture and having an experienced senior management team and work force, positions us well to continue to strengthen our leadership position and execute our growth strategy. Differentiated Business Model / Diversified Product Mix / Expanded Product Offerings We are one of the most diversified steel companies in the United States, with very broad value-added steel product offerings. We offer a wide range of steel products (more specifically enumerated in the Steel Operations Products and Tons Sold by End Market discussion later in this section). We have a proven track record of growing and developing premium, value-added steel product capabilities and unlocking value within our operations. Additionally, by adding high-margin downstream manufacturing businesses, we are able to provide base-load pull-through volume for our steel operations, increasing through-cycle steel mill utilization. We are also identifying new ways to provide value to our customers by providing supply-chain solutions. Our differentiated business 3 Table of Contents model and performance-driven culture demonstrate our through-cycle earnings capability through our three vertically connected operating segments. Steel Operations: Sheet Products. Hot roll, cold roll and coated steel, including a wide variety of value-added products, such as light gauge hot roll, and galvanized, galvanneal, Galvalume , Galfan , and painted products. Long Products . Structural steel beams, pilings, and standard and premium grade rail; engineered special-bar-quality of an expanding range of sizes and chemistries; various merchant-bar-quality products including rounds, angles, flats, reinforcing bar, channels and specialty steel sections. Steel Finishing . Turning, polishing, straightening, chamfering, threading, precision saw-cutting, cold draw and heat treating of bar products; and cutting to length, additional straightening, hole punching, shot blasting, welding and coating of beams, channels and specialty steel sections. Metals Recycling Operations. An array of both ferrous and nonferrous scrap recycling, scrap management, transportation, and brokerage products and services. Steel Fabrication Operations. Steel joists, girders and steel deck, including specialty deck. Our steel fabrication operations provide pull-through volume optionality for our steel operations, as many of the products that we make utilize our own internally produced steel. This diversified portfolio of products enables us to access a broad range of markets, serve a large customer base, and helps mitigate our market exposure to any one product or sector, resulting in increased through-cycle steel mill utilization. In addition, our value-added steel product offerings help to balance our exposure to commodity grade products supplied by other manufacturers. We will continue to seek additional opportunities and to collaborate with our customers to anticipate their future needs by further expanding our range of products and offerings, which may allow our customers the ability to more effectively and efficiently navigate their supply chain. One such opportunity is our planned $1.9 billion next-generation electric arc furnace (EAF) flat roll steel mill Southwest-Sinton Flat Roll Division. Our new steel mill will have an estimated 3.0 million tons of annual steel production capacity, including value-added coating lines comprised of a galvanizing line with planned annual coating capacity of 550,000 tons with galvalume capability and a paint line with annual coating capacity of 250,000 tons. By leveraging our construction and operating expertise, we are building a next-generation EAF flat roll steel mill with planned production capabilities beyond existing EAF flat roll steel producers, competing even more effectively with the integrated steel model and foreign competition. Our new steel mill will have the capability to provide higher-strength, tougher grades of flat roll steel for the energy and automotive markets. These ultra-high-strength steel products are not currently readily available from other domestic steel producers. By locating our new steel mill in Sinton, Texas we are strategically targeting underserved markets that are largely reliant on imports with long lead times and lower product quality capabilities, providing customers throughout the Southwest United States and Mexico significant freight benefits and shorter lead times allowing them to realize working capital advantages. Additionally, our new steel mill site has sufficient acreage to allow for customers to locate on-site, providing them with logistics savings and our steel mill with volume base-loading opportunities. Based on current expectations, operations are planned to begin mid-2021. One of the Lowest Cost Steel Producers in the United States; State-of-the-Art Facilities / Allowing for Low Production Costs We are focused on maintaining one of the lowest operating cost structures in the North American steel industry. Our low operating costs are primarily a result of our efficient plant designs and operations, our high productivity rate, low ongoing maintenance cost requirements and strategic locations near our customers and sources of our primary raw material, ferrous scrap. We will continue to develop innovative ways to use our equipment, enhance our productivity and explore new technologies to further improve our unit costs of production at each of our facilities. As one of the lowest cost producers in each of our three primary operating segments, we are able to better manage through all market cycles, and to consistently maximize our profitability. We continuously seek to maximize the variability of our cost structure and to reduce per unit and fixed costs. Our highly performance-based incentive compensation plans at all employee levels are based on both divisional and consolidated company performance. Performance-based incentive compensation is designed to reward high productivity and efficient use of physical resources and capital 4 Table of Contents employed. Additionally, effectively leveraging our existing facilities through capital effective organic growth and diversified product offerings allows us to maximize utilization. Secure Supply of High Quality Just-in-Time Ferrous Raw Materials We maintain a secure supply of ferrous raw material resources through the benefit of our metals recycling operations and Iron Dynamics (IDI). Ferrous materials represent the single largest raw material component of our steel operations manufacturing costs, at approximately 55 to 60 percent of such costs. During 2019, 2018, and 2017, OmniSource, our metals recycling operations, provided our steel operations with 37%, 39%, and 38%, respectively, of its ferrous scrap requirements. This represented 66%, 65%, and 63% of OmniSource s total ferrous scrap shipments during 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. During 2019, 2018, and 2017, our steel operations consumed 10.6 million, 10.9 million, and 10.3 million tons, respectively, of metallic materials, of which iron units, other than scrap, represented approximately 13% in 2019 and 2017, and 14% in 2018. IDI supplies 100% of its production to the Butler Flat Roll Division, representing 63%, 64%, and 72% of their iron units other than scrap in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, through the transfer of liquid pig iron and hot briquetted iron, which are higher quality, energy-saving ferrous raw materials. We believe our metals recycling operations and IDI provide us with a high quality, cost effective, and secure raw material platform for effective working capital management. Strategic Geographic Locations / Enter New Geographic Markets The majority of our steelmaking operations are in locations near sustainable sources of scrap materials and near our customer base, allowing us to realize freight savings for inbound scrap as well as for outbound steel products destined for our customers. This also allows us to provide consistent on-time delivery to our customer base with relatively short lead times, further solidifying our customer relationships. Recycled ferrous scrap and iron units represent the most significant component of our cost of steel manufacturing. Approximately three-fourths of our recycled ferrous scrap needs are sourced within 250 miles of our steel mill locations, minimizing the amount of energy expended on transportation. We believe that our metals recycling facilities are in the regions that account for a majority of the total ferrous scrap produced in the United States. Our steel fabrication operations have a national footprint allowing us to serve the entire joist and deck domestic market and national accounts. Sustainability We have had a focus toward sustainability since our inception, valuing our teams, partners and communities while producing steel using EAF technology which utilizes recycled ferrous scrap as the primary raw material, requiring the use of far fewer natural resources and consuming significantly less energy than traditional blast furnace technology, resulting in lower levels of air emissions and much less environmental impact. For melting and casting steel, our energy intensity for our six EAF steel mills is only approximately 11% of the World Steel Association average energy intensity. Our CO 2 emissions from our six EAF steel mills are only approximately 13% of the World Steel Association average CO 2 emissions. We reuse over 99% of our total system water demand. We have continuously innovated, further strengthening our company, becoming vertically connected with a looped manufacturing life cycle. We are one of the largest ferrous and nonferrous scrap metals recyclers in the United States. Our metals recycling platform collects and processes industrial scrap from manufacturers and obsolete scrap derived from end-of-life items, such as automobiles, appliances and machinery. This processed scrap is then sold to end users, including our electric arc furnace steel mills. Our steel mills utilize recycled ferrous scrap as their primary raw material input to produce new steel. Our steel is then sold internally to our steel manufacturing operations and to external steel customers. Through our vertically connected manufacturing life cycle, we reintroduced 1.1 billion pounds of recycled nonferrous scrap and 11 million tons of recycled ferrous scrap into the manufacturing life cycle in 2019. Additionally, our vertically connected manufacturing life cycle allowed for 1.4 million tons of our steel to be used internally. At Steel Dynamics, we recognize the importance of being good stewards of our environment and the communities where we work and live. We continually evaluate opportunities to improve our processes, equipment and technology to reduce our physical impact on the environment. To us, it is more than simply meeting applicable requirements, but going beyond with a commitment to higher environmental standards. Both our Butler and Columbus Flat Roll Divisions environmental management systems are certified with the International Organization for Standardization 14001. These facilities represent over 65% of our 2019 steel production. Each of our steel mills has an environmental engineering group focused on regulatory compliance, and our employ ees are trained on how to properly handle waste streams and engage in responsible environmental practices. Being environmentally conscious is part of our culture. We see ourselves as members of the communities in which we do business. Every day, our teams take the initiative to protect the environment, simply because it is the right thing to do. 5 Table of Contents Experienced Leadership Team and Unique Culture / Foster Entrepreneurial Culture Our senior leadership team is highly experienced and has a proven track record in the steel, metals recycling, and steel fabrication industries. Our leadership objectives are closely aligned with our stockholders through meaningful stock ownership positions and performance-based incentive compensation programs that are correlated to the company s profitability and operational performance in relationship to its steel manufacturing peers. Our entrepreneurial culture resonates throughout each of our operating segments. We emphasize decentralized decision making, with corporate risk oversight, and have established incentive compensation programs specifically designed to reward our individual teams for their efforts toward identifying innovative ways to enhance productivity, improve profitability, and control costs. We foster our entrepreneurial culture and emphasize decentralized operational decision making and responsibility, while continuing to maintain appropriate corporate governance and risk oversight. We reward teamwork, innovation, and operating efficiency, and focus on maintaining the effectiveness of our performance-driven incentive bonus plans that are designed to maximize overall productivity and align the interests of our leadership and teams with our stockholders. Experienced Senior Leadership Team Name Age Position Mark D. Millett 60 President and Chief Executive Officer Theresa E. Wagler 49 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Corporate Secretary Russ B. Rinn 62 Executive Vice President, Metals Recycling Miguel Alvarez 52 Senior Vice President, Southwest United States and Mexico Chris A. Graham 55 Senior Vice President, Long Products Steel Group Glenn A. Pushis 54 Senior Vice President, Special Projects Barry T. Schneider 51 Senior Vice President, Flat Roll Steel Group James S. Anderson 59 Vice President, Steel Fabrication Mark D. Millett , a co-founder of our company and director since inception, has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Millett has held various positions, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President of Metals Recycling and Ferrous Resources, President and Chief Operating Officer of OmniSource Corporation (now OmniSource, LLC), and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for Flat Rolled Steels and Ferrous Resources. Mr. Millett was responsible for the design, construction, and start-up operation of our Butler, Indiana flat roll, melting and casting operations. Mr. Millett, prior to his co-founding of Steel Dynamics, served from 1981 to 1985 as chief metallurgist for Nucor Corporation s Darlington, South Carolina, division, charged with developing the world s first commercially viable thin-slab-casting process as the manager of that project at Nucor s Hazelett facility. In 1987, Mr. Millett was given the responsibility by Nucor for the design, construction, staffing, and operation of the melting and casting facility at Nucor s world s-first thin-slab casting facility at Crawfordsville, Indiana. Mr. Millett holds a bachelor s degree in metallurgy from the University of Surrey in England. Mr. Millett was named Steelmaker of the Year in 2014 by the Association of Iron and Steel Technology. Theresa E. Wagler has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary since May 2007. Ms. Wagler joined the Steel Dynamics corporate finance team in 1998, and has held various finance and accounting positions, including Chief Accounting Officer and Vice President and Corporate Controller, and was appointed to her current position in May 2007. She is responsible for and oversees accounting and taxation, treasury, risk management, legal, information technology and cyber security, safety and human resources, and strategic business development functions, as well as investor relations, and corporate communications. Ms. Wagler also has operational responsibilities beginning January 2019. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, Ms. Wagler served as a certified public accountant with Ernst Young LLP. She graduated cum laude from Taylor University with a bachelor s degree in accounting and systems analysis. In addition, Ms. Wagler serves as a director and chair of the audit committee of CF Industries Holdings, Inc., a public company, and also serves as a director and audit committee chair for Trine University. Russell B. Rinn has been our Executive Vice President for Metals Recycling since July 2011. Mr. Rinn is responsible for OmniSource s ferrous and nonferrous metals recycling operations in the eastern half of the United States, as well as sourcing, marketing, trading, and logistics activities spanning the nation. OmniSource procures metal scrap, processes it, and markets these recycled metals to external customers and supplies ferrous scrap to the company s steel mills. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, Mr. Rinn was an Executive Vice President of Commercial Metals Company (CMC), a Texas-based mini-mill steel company. He has more than 30 years of experience in the steel and metals recycling industries. Mr. Rinn is a graduate of the Executive Program of the Stanford University Graduate School of Business and of the Management Development Program at the University of Michigan s Business School. He holds a bachelor s degree in Finance, Marketing and Business Administration from Texas Lutheran University. 6 Table of Contents Miguel Alvarez joined the company as our Senior Vice President, Southwest United States and Mexico in February 2019. In this position Mr. Alvarez is responsible for the comprehensive business development and partnerships in the regions, encompassing both steel and recycled metals. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, since 2000 Mr. Alvarez served in leadership positions at BlueScope, a global engineered steel solutions provider and flat roll steel producer, focused on the global building and construction sectors. Mr. Alvarez s responsibilities included leading BlueScope s North American metal buildings business, with manufacturing facilities in the United States and Mexico, as President of BlueScope Buildings North America, since 2017. From 2010 to 2017, he served as the President of North Star BlueScope Steel, responsible for BlueScope s only North American electric arc furnace flat roll steel mill. Mr. Alvarez earned a bachelor s degree in industrial engineering and a Masters of Business Administration from the Technological Institute of Superior Studies in Monterrey, Mexico. Chris A. Graham is our Senior Vice President, Long Products Steel Group, since February 2019. In this role, Mr. Graham is responsible for the company s four long product steel mills, which combined have over 4 million tons of annual steel