Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 31 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 35 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6. [Reserved] 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 87 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 88 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 89 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 89 Exhibit Index 90 Signatures 93 Table of Contents PART I Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Throughout this report, or in other reports or registration statements filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or under the Securities Act of 1933, as well as in documents we incorporate by reference herein or here-from, or in press releases or oral statements made by our officers or Regulation FD authorized representatives, we may make statements that express our opinions, expectations, or projections regarding future events or future results, in contrast with statements that reflect present or historical facts. These predictive statements, which we generally precede or accompany by such typical conditional words as anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, seek, project or expect, or by the words may, will, or should, are intended to operate as forward-looking statements of the kind permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, incorporated in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements involve both known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. That legislation protects such predictive and cautionary statements by creating a safe harbor from liability in the event that a particular prediction does not turn out as anticipated. While we always intend to express our best judgment when we make statements about what we believe will occur in the future, and although we base these statements on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when made, these forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance, and you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to many uncertainties and other variable circumstances, many of which are outside of our control, that could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from those we thought would occur. The following listing represents some, but not necessarily all, of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from those we may have anticipated or predicted: Global and National Risks domestic and global economic factors including periods of slower than anticipated economic growth and the risk of a recession; global steelmaking overcapacity and imports of steel into the United States, together with increased scrap prices; pandemics, epidemics, widespread illness or other health issues; Industry Risks the cyclical nature of the steel industry and some of the industries we serve; volatility and major fluctuations in prices and availability of scrap metal, scrap substitutes and supplies, and our potential inability to pass higher costs on to our customers; cost and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions; increased environmental, greenhouse gas emissions and sustainability considerations from our customers or related regulations; compliance with and changes in environmental and remediation requirements; 1 Table of Contents Operational and Commercial Risks significant price and other forms of competition from other steel and aluminum producers, scrap processors and alternative materials; availability of an adequate source of supply of scrap for our metals recycling operations; cybersecurity threats and risks to the security of our sensitive data and information technology; the implementation of our growth strategy; litigation and legal compliance; unexpected equipment downtime or shutdowns; governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew some of our licenses and permits required to operate our businesses; our senior unsecured credit facility contains, and any future financing agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility; and the impact of impairment charges. We also refer you to and urge you to carefully read the section entitled Risk Factors at Item 1A of this report to better understand some of the principal risks and uncertainties inherent in our businesses or in owning our securities, as well as the section entitled Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations at Item 7 . You should also review the notes to consolidated financial statements under headings in Note 1. Use of Estimates and in Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies . Any forward-looking statements which we make in this report, or in any of the documents that are incorporated by reference herein or here-from, speak only as of the date of such statement, and we undertake no ongoing obligation to update such statements. Comparisons of results between current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Steel Dynamics, Inc. is one of the largest domestic steel producers and metal recyclers in the United States, based on estimated steelmaking and steel coating capacity of approximately 16 million tons and actual metals recycling volumes as of December 31, 2023, with one of the most diversified product and end market portfolios in the domestic steel industry, combined with meaningful downstream steel fabrication operations. The company s primary sources of revenue are currently from the manufacture and sale of steel products, the processing and sale of recycled ferrous and nonferrous metals, and the fabrication and sale of steel joists and deck products. We refer to our founding principles as our six core strategic pillars. They bring us together with a common focus, and they provide the foundation upon which we operate and grow. Our unique entrepreneurial culture and business model benefit us operationally, financially, and through the responsible use of our resources in diverse economic environments. Innovation in all forms is essential to our success, and our teams focus on how to do things smarter within our current operations, as well as how we continue to grow. This means creating solutions for our teammates, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders. It also includes finding ways to do business with fewer resources and less environmental impact. Our six strategic pillars and the team s execution of them each day has driven our success and sustainability. Health Safety Safety is our primary focus and core value. Nothing surpasses the importance of creating and maintaining a safe work environment. Our goal is zero injuries no accidents. Entrepreneurial Culture Fosters a team of energetic, positive, driven, innovative and diverse individuals by utilizing open communication and meaningful performance-based compensation aligned to our strategic focus. Customer Commitment We focus on being a preferred partner of our customers by providing quality products and unique supply chain solutions to meet their current and future needs. Strategic Sustainable Growth We focus on strategic growth with intentional margin expansion and consistency through-the-cycle. Innovation Through individual creativity and ingenuity, our teams drive innovation to improve safety, quality, productivity, and resource sustainability. We strive to provide unique, superior products, customer supply chain solutions, and next-generation technologies and processes. Financial Strength Through our adaptable value-added product diversification, vertically connected businesses model, coupled with our highly variable operating cost structure and performance-based incentive compensation, along with our continued operating innovations and efficiency, we achieve higher utilization and lower costs, which provide strong cash flow generation through both strong and weak market cycles. Differentiated Model - Uniquely Steel Dynamics Competitively advantaged differentiation is core to our long-term value creation strategy. We set ourselves apart in every aspect of our business with a spirit of excellence. 3 Table of Contents Unique Entrepreneurial Culture Our entrepreneurial culture is at the core of our success and is driven by our extensive performance-based incentive compensation philosophy from those on the plant floor to our senior leadership. Over 60% of a production team member s total potential compensation is at risk to both quality production and cost-effectiveness metrics. Over 85% of our senior leadership team s total potential compensation is at risk to companywide financial performance metrics that encourage long-term value creation, including return on equity, growth, cash generation, and return on invested capital measures. We believe diversity within our teams enhances broad-based thinking, innovation, and value creation. Our common goal of consistently achieving excellence in all we do is reflected in the esprit de corps that permeates our team. Diversified, Value-Added Product Offerings and Supply-Chain Solutions We have one of the most diversified, high-margin product offerings within the domestic steel industry. We have a track record of profitable growth, driving diversification in both end markets and value-added product offerings to sustain higher volume and profitability through varying market environments. Over 70% of our steel and steel fabrication sales are considered value-added. Throughout our history and today, we seek to provide unique supply-chain alternatives for our customers to increase efficiency, reduce time and costs, and promote decarbonization opportunities. Growing with our customers in this way has proven to be invaluable in creating long-lasting relationships and product development. The majority of our steelmaking operations are in locations near sustainable sources of scrap metals and near our customer base, allowing us to realize freight savings for inbound scrap as well as for outbound steel products destined for our customers. This also allows us to provide consistent on-time delivery to our customer base with relatively short lead times, further solidifying our customer relationships. This diversified portfolio of products enables us to access a broad range of markets, serve a large customer base, and helps mitigate our market exposure to any one product or sector, resulting in increased through-cycle steel mill utilization. In addition, our value-added steel product offerings help to balance our exposure to commodity grade products supplied by other steel manufacturers. We will continue to seek additional opportunities, such as entering into the recycled aluminum flat rolled products market, and to collaborate with our customers to anticipate their future needs by further expanding our range of products and offerings. Our Southwest-Sinton Flat Roll Division (Sinton) is a prime example of our internal growth and differentiated business model. This electric arc furnace (EAF) flat roll steel mill has approximately 3.0 million tons of annual steel production capacity, currently including two value-added coating lines comprised of a galvanizing line with annual coating capacity of 550,000 tons with galvalume capability, and a paint line with annual coating capacity of 250,000 tons. We are also currently building four additional value-added flat roll steel coating lines comprised of an additional paint line and galvanizing line located onsite at Sinton and a paint line and galvanizing line at our Heartland Flat Roll Division. These new coating lines are expected to begin operating in early 2024. As with all our growth initiatives, we seek to competitively differentiate ourselves through service, product capability and quality, and supply-chain solutions. Sinton is a next-generation EAF flat roll steel mill, which has the capability to provide higher-strength, tougher grades of flat roll steel for the energy and automotive markets. These ultra-high-strength steel products are not currently readily available from other domestic steel producers. Sinton is adhering to the same sustainability model as our other steelmaking facilities, utilizing state-of-the-art environmental controls and processes to produce high quality sustainable steel. Sinton was fully commissioned during the first half of 2022, and operations have continued to ramp up as the team navigated unexpected challenges related to equipment during 2023. Vertically Connected Businesses and Pull-Through Volume Advantage Our vertically connected businesses contribute to our higher through-cycle steel production and overall profitability. Our internal manufacturing businesses are a significant competitive advantage supporting higher and more stable through-cycle earnings and cash flow generation. Our steel fabrication operations and downstream processing locations 4 Table of Contents use a significant amount of steel in their operations. During weaker steel demand environments, we can source more of their steel needs internally, and during strong steel demand environments, we have the option to also purchase their steel needs externally. Ultimately, we optimize our companywide profitability and minimize earnings volatility. In 2023, our own steel consuming businesses purchased 1.8 million tons of steel from our steel mills, representing 14% of our total 2023 steel shipments. A strategic and synergistic relationship also exists between our steel mills and metals recycling operations. Our metals recycling platform is the largest supplier of recycled ferrous scrap to our steel operations and is expected to be the largest supplier of recycled nonferrous scrap to our aluminum operations. This allows us to reduce companywide working capital, as lower scrap volume is required at our steel mills. We are also able to source higher-quality scrap for our steel mills, optimizing cost and quality. Technically Advanced, Low-Cost, Highly-Efficient Operations We operate some of the most technically advanced and environmentally responsible steel mills in the world. Our steel mills generate a fraction of the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) per ton of steel produced as compared to traditional blast furnace steel production and the average global steel industry. Our value-added product diversification, vertically connected businesses, and performance-based incentive compensation programs support our efficient, environmentally responsible, and competitively advantaged footprint. Coupled with our low-cost, highly variable operating cost structure and our continued operating innovation and efficiency, we are one of the most profitable and lowest-cost domestic steel producers. Transformational Growth / New Recycled Aluminum Flat Rolled Products Mill In 2022, we announced our $2.7 billion project to construct and operate a 650,000 metric ton recycled aluminum flat rolled products mill in Columbus, Mississippi, with two supporting satellite recycled aluminum slab centers. A significant number of our steel customers are also consumers and processors of aluminum flat rolled products. We have had customers indicate that they would like to co-locate on the rolling mill site in Columbus, enhancing cost efficiencies and reducing emissions across the supply chain. This investment will allow us to broaden our ability to serve both our existing and new customers by adding high-quality, low-carbon flat rolled aluminum to our product portfolio. The product mix from the flat rolled products mill is expected to be approximately 45% can stock, 35% automotive, and 20% common alloy and industrial use. The product offering will be supported by various value-added finishing lines, including CASH (continuous annealing solutions heat treating) lines, continuous coating, and various slitting and packaging operations. The state-of-the-art recycled aluminum flat rolled products mill will utilize a significant amount of aluminum scrap, and as such is also a complementary extension of the company s metals recycling platform. The two satellite recycling aluminum slab centers are expected to begin operations in late 2024 and mid-2025, and the recycled aluminum flat rolled products mill is expected to begin commissioning in mid-2025. Our unique performance-based operating culture, coupled with our experience in successfully constructing and operating cost-effective, highly profitable carbon flat roll steel mills, positions us exceptionally well to execute strategic opportunities and to deliver strong long-term value creation. Sustainability Sustainability is a part of our long-term value creation strategy. We are dedicated to our people, our communities and our environment. We are committed to operating our business with the highest integrity and have been since our founding. We only produce steel using EAF technology with recycled ferrous scrap as the primary raw material. This method of steelmaking emits approximately one-third of the Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions and uses less than one-quarter of the energy of the global blast furnace steelmaking averages on a per metric ton basis. We believe EAF production is the best commercially available steelmaking, is the most cost efficient, and provides the most flexibility, and as such, has been our method of growth for our steel operations. We encourage the use of new technologies and processes to reduce our impact on the environment, including a strategic focus on lowering carbon emissions. We are taking further action to reduce our environmental footprint through our 2025, 2030, and 2050 goals for GHG emissions reduction and increased renewable energy usage. 5 Table of Contents We intentionally developed a vertically connected operating model, further strengthening our company. Our metals recycling platform collects and processes scrap from manufacturing and end-of-life items, such as automobiles, appliances, and machinery. This processed scrap is then sold to end-users for reuse, including our EAF steel mills, which produce new steel from the scrapped material. Our steel is then sold to consumers that both further process and manufacture end products. We sell a meaningful amount of steel to our own manufacturing businesses that in turn sell finished products to consumers. Ultimately, when these products reach the end of their useful lives, they can be collected as scrap and used again in our steelmaking operations, creating our circular manufacturing model. Our growth strategy focuses on increasing through-cycle cash generation and providing growth opportunities for our people, partners, communities, and shareholders, all while keeping the sustainability of resources and carbon impact in focus. We endeavor for continuous improvement in decarbonization, while maintaining compliance with regulated emission limits. We evaluate our GHG emissions by regularly reviewing furnace performance and efficiency. We analyze the latest available technologies to also determine whether emissions can be further lowered. In 2022, we announced a strategic joint venture, SDI Biocarbon Solutions, LLC. The joint venture, which is in the process of construction, will operate a biocarbon production facility in Columbus, Mississippi and is planned to supply our EAF steel mills with a renewable product alternative to anthracite used in our steelmaking operations. The facility is expected to produce up to 228,000 metric tons per year, which could result in as much as an estimated 35% reduction in our steel mills Scope 1 GHG emissions. Operations are planned to begin in late 2024. Experienced Leadership Team / Fosters an Entrepreneurial Culture Our senior leadership team is highly experienced and has a proven track record in the steel, metals recycling, and steel fabrication industries, as well as in the construction and start-up of new operations. Our leadership objectives are closely aligned with our stakeholders through meaningful stock ownership positions and performance-based incentive compensation programs that are correlated to the company s profitability and operational performance in relationship to our steel manufacturing peers. We emphasize decentralized operational decision making and responsibility, while continuing to maintain appropriate corporate governance and risk oversight. We reward teamwork, innovation, and operating efficiency, and focus on maintaining the effectiveness of our performance-driven incentive bonus plans that are designed to maximize overall productivity and align the interests of our leadership and teams with our stakeholders. Name Age Position Mark D. Millett 64 Co-founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer Theresa E. Wagler 53 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Corporate Secretary Barry T. Schneider 55 President and Chief Operating Officer Miguel Alvarez 56 Senior Vice President, Metals Recycling James S. Anderson 63 Senior Vice President, Steel Fabrication Chris A. Graham 59 Senior Vice President, Flat Roll Steel Group Richard A. Poinsatte 57 Senior Vice President and Treasurer Glenn A. Pushis 58 Senior Vice President, Special Projects Mark D. Millett co-founded the Company in 1993. Mr. Millett has been our Board Chair since May 2021 and has been our Chief Executive Officer since January 2012. Prior to that, he has held various positions within the Company, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President of Metals Recycling and Ferrous Resources, and Executive Vice President of Flat Roll Operations. Mr. Millett was responsible for the design, construction, and start-up operation of all of our steel mills, including our Butler, Indiana flat roll, melting, and casting operations. Mr. Millett serves as Past Chairman of the Steel Manufacturers Association (SMA). During 2019, Mr. Millett was named the recipient of the James F. Collins Achievement in Advocacy Award by the SMA. In 2014 and 2022, Mr. Millet was named Steelmaker of the Year by the Association of Iron and Steel Technology. Mr. Millett earned his bachelor s degree in metallurgy from the University of Surrey, England. 6 Table of Contents Theresa E. Wagler has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary since May 2007. Ms. Wagler joined the Steel Dynamics corporate finance team in 1998, and has held various finance and accounting positions, including Chief Accounting Officer and Vice President and Corporate Controller. She is responsible for and oversees accounting and taxation, treasury, risk management, legal, information technology and cybersecurity, human resources, decarbonization strategy, and strategic business development functions, as well as, financial planning and analysis, investor relations, and corporate communications. Ms. Wagler also has various operational responsibilities directly overseeing two operating joint ventures. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, Ms. Wagler was a certified public accountant with Ernst Young LLP. She graduated cum laude from Taylor University with a bachelor s degree in accounting and systems analysis. In addition, Ms. Wagler serves as a director, chair of the audit committee, and a member of the environmental sustainability and community committee of CF Industries Holdings, Inc., a public company, and also serves as a trustee for Trine University and director for the Metals Service Center Institute. Barry T. Schneider was appointed our President and Chief Operating Officer in March 2023. Mr. Schneider is responsible for the company s steel platform, steel fabrication platform, and metals recycling platform. Before that, Mr. Schneider served as our Senior Vice President, Flat Roll Steel Group, between March 2016 and February 2023, responsible for the company s entire flat roll steel operations, including the company s three flat roll steel mills and numerous flat roll processing, coating, and distribution operations. Before that, Mr. Schneider served in various operational and leadership roles within the company s steel operations, including our Engineered Bar Products Division and Butler Flat Roll Division. He was also part of the team that constructed the company s first steel mill in Butler, Indiana, in 1994. Mr. Schneider earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and a master of science in engineering management from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology. He also received an Executive Certificate in Technology, Operations, and Value Chain Management from the MIT Sloan School of Management. In addition, Mr. Schneider serves as president for the Association of Iron Steel Technology. Miguel Alvarez has been our Senior Vice President, Metals Recycling since March 2022. In this role, Mr. Alvarez is responsible for OmniSource s ferrous and nonferrous metals recycling operations including marketing, trading and logistics activities. Prior to this role, Mr. Alvarez served as Senior Vice President, Southwest United States and Mexico, since February 2019. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, Mr. Alvarez served in leadership positions at BlueScope; this included leading BlueScope s North American metal buildings business with manufacturing facilities in the United States and Mexico, and being responsible for BlueScope s only North American electric arc furnace flat roll steel mill as President of North Star BlueScope Steel. Mr. Alvarez earned a bachelor s degree in industrial engineering and an MBA from Tecnol gico de Monterrey, M xico. James S. Anderson has been our Senior Vice President, Steel Fabrication since March 2022. Previously, Mr. Anderson served as Vice President, Steel Fabrication and President of New Millennium Building Systems. In this role, Mr. Anderson is responsible for the company's steel fabrication operations. Prior to that, Mr. Anderson served as the Chief Operating Officer of New Millennium Building Systems, and was the general manager of The Techs three flat roll galvanizing lines. Mr. Anderson earned a bachelor's degree in metallurgical engineering from Grove City College and an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh. Christopher A. Graham was appointed our Senior Vice President, Flat Roll Steel Group in October 2023. Mr. Graham is responsible for the company s entire flat rolled steel operations, including the company s three flat roll steel mills and numerous flat roll processing, coating, and distribution operations. Before that, Mr. Graham served as our Senior Vice President, Long Products Steel Group. In this role, Mr. Graham was responsible for the company s four long product steel mills, along with a downstream finishing operation and the company s copper rod manufacturing facility. Prior to that, Mr. Graham served as Senior Vice President, Downstream Manufacturing and President of New Millennium Building Systems, responsible for the company s steel fabrication and downstream manufacturing operations, and other operational and leadership roles. Mr. Graham was also a part of the team that constructed the company s first steel mill in Butler, Indiana, in 1994. Mr. Graham earned a bachelor's degree in business management from Western Governors University and an MBA from the University of Saint Francis. In addition, Mr. Graham completed the Harvard Advanced Management Program in 2017. 7 Table of Contents Richard A. Poinsatte was appointed to Senior Vice President in October 2023 and as Treasurer is responsible for the areas of treasury, legal, business development, and risk. Mr. Poinsatte joined Steel Dynamics in 2000, as the Chief Financial Officer of one of the company s joint venture businesses, which is now part of the steel fabrication platform. During his time with Steel Dynamics, he has held positions of increasing responsibility, including the operating position of General Manager of the company s Florida steel fabrication plant. Since 2008, he has been responsible for the company s treasury, risk, and legal applications. Mr. Poinsatte earned a bachelor s degree in accounting from the University of Notre Dame, and he is a certified public accountant. Glenn A. Pushis has been our Senior Vice President, Special Projects, since February 2019. Mr. Pushis is responsible for the successful design and construction of the company s new 650,000 metric ton state-of-the-art lower-carbon, recycled aluminum flat rolled products mill in Columbus, Mississippi with two satellite recycled aluminum slab centers in the Southwestern United States and Northcentral Mexico. From 2019 until 2022, Mr. Pushis was responsible for the successful design a