Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Selected Financial Data [Reserved] 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 82 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 82 Item 9B. Other Information 82 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 82 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation 83 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 84 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 84 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 85 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 85 Exhibit Index 86 Signatures 89 Table of Contents PART I Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Throughout this report, or in other reports or registration statements filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or under the Securities Act of 1933, as well as in documents we incorporate by reference herein or herefrom, or in press releases or oral statements made by our officers or Regulation FD authorized representatives, we may make statements that express our opinions, expectations, or projections regarding future events or future results, in contrast with statements that reflect present or historical facts. These predictive statements, which we generally precede or accompany by such typical conditional words as anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, seek, project or expect, or by the words may, will, or should, are intended to operate as forward-looking statements of the kind permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, incorporated in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements involve both known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. That legislation protects such predictive and cautionary statements by creating a safe harbor from liability in the event that a particular prediction does not turn out as anticipated. While we always intend to express our best judgment when we make statements about what we believe will occur in the future, and although we base these statements on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when made, these forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance, and you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to many uncertainties and other variable circumstances, many of which are outside of our control, that could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from those we thought would occur. The following listing represents some, but not necessarily all, of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from those we may have anticipated or predicted: Global and National Risks domestic and global economic factors including periods of slower than anticipated economic growth and the risk of a recession; global steelmaking overcapacity and imports of steel into the United States, together with increased scrap prices; pandemics, epidemics, widespread illness or other health issues, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; Industry Risks the cyclical nature of the steel industry and some of the industries we serve; volatility and major fluctuations in prices and availability of scrap metal, scrap substitutes, and our potential inability to pass higher costs on to our customers; cost and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil, or other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions; increased environmental, greenhouse gas emissions and sustainability considerations or regulations; compliance with and changes in environmental and remediation requirements; 1 Table of Contents Operational and Commercial Risks significant price and other forms of competition from other steel producers, scrap processors and alternative materials; availability of an adequate source of supply of scrap for our metals recycling operations; cybersecurity threats and risks to the security of our sensitive data and information technology; the implementation of our growth strategy; litigation and legal compliance; unexpected equipment downtime or shutdowns; governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew some of our licenses and permits required to operate our businesses; our senior unsecured credit facility contains, and any future financing agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility; and the impact of impairment charges. We also refer you to and urge you to carefully read the section entitled Risk Factors at Item 1A of this report to better understand some of the principal risks and uncertainties inherent in our businesses or in owning our securities, as well as the section entitled Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations at Item 7 . You should also review the notes to consolidated financial statements under headings in Note 1. Use of Estimates and in Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies . Any forward-looking statements which we make in this report, or in any of the documents that are incorporated by reference herein or herefrom, speak only as of the date of such statement, and we undertake no ongoing obligation to update such statements. Comparisons of results between current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Steel Dynamics, Inc. is one of the largest domestic steel producers and metal recyclers in the United States, based on estimated steelmaking and steel coating capacity of approximately 13 million tons and actual metals recycling volumes as of December 31, 2021, with one of the most diversified product and end-market portfolios in the domestic steel industry. Annual steelmaking and steel coating capacity is expected to increase to approximately 16 million tons once our new Southwest-Sinton Flat Roll Division is fully operational. The company s primary sources of revenue are from the manufacture and sale of steel products, the processing and sale of recycled ferrous and nonferrous metals, and the fabrication and sale of steel joists and deck products. We refer to our founding principles as our six core strategic pillars. They bring us together with a common focus, and they provide the foundation upon which we operate and grow. Our unique entrepreneurial culture and business model benefit us operationally, financially, and through the responsible use of our resources in diverse economic environments. Innovation in all forms is essential to our success. Our teams focus on how to do things effectively and efficiently within our current operations, and how we can continue to strategically grow. This means creating solutions for our teammates, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders. It also includes finding ways to operate more efficiently using minimal resources with minimal environmental impact. Our six pillars and the team s execution of them each day has driven our success and sustainability. Safety Creating and maintaining a safe work environment is the foundation of our decision making. Safety is always at the forefront and is a constant topic of conversation across the company. Our goal is zero injuries no accidents. Culture Our entrepreneurial culture fosters a team of energetic, positive, driven, innovative and diverse individuals by utilizing open communication and meaningful performance-based compensation aligned to our strategic focus. Customer Commitment We focus on being a preferred partner of our customers by providing quality products and unique supply-chain solutions to meet their current and future needs. Growth We focus on strategic growth with intentional margin expansion to improve our through-the-cycle earnings. Innovation Through individual creativity and ingenuity, our teams drive innovation to improve safety, quality, productivity, and resource sustainability. We strive to provide unique, superior products, customer supply chain solutions, and next-generation technologies and processes. Financial Strength Through our adaptable value-added product diversification, vertically connected businesses model, coupled with our highly variable operating cost structure and performance-based incentive compensation, along with our continued operating innovations and efficiency, we achieve higher utilization and lower costs, which provide strong cash flow generation through both strong and weak market cycles. Differentiated Model - Uniquely Steel Dynamics Competitively advantaged differentiation is core to our long-term value creation strategy. We aim to set ourselves apart in every aspect of our business with a spirit of excellence, with the following core values driving our differentiation strategy. 3 Table of Contents Unique Entrepreneurial Culture Our entrepreneurial culture is at the core of our success and is driven by our extensive performance-based incentive compensation philosophy for those on the plant floor to senior leadership. Over 60% of a plant floor colleague s total potential compensation is at risk of being achieved due to both quality production and cost-effectiveness metrics in place. Over 85% of our senior leadership team s total potential compensation is at risk to company-wide financial performance metrics that encourage long-term value creation, including return on equity, growth, cash generation, and return on invested capital metrics. Our common goal of consistently achieving excellence in all we do is reflected in the esprit de corps that permeates our team. We believe diversity within our teams enhances broad-based thinking, innovation, and value creation. Diversified, Value-Added Product Offerings / Supply-Chain Solutions We have one of the most diversified, high-margin product offerings of any domestic steel producer. We have a track record of profitable growth, driving diversification in both end markets and product offerings to sustain higher volume and profitability through all market environments. This includes developing premium, value-added steel products, with over 70% of our steel and fabrication sales being considered value-added. A key competitive advantage is our numerous supply-chain solutions which provide significant advantages to our customers, creating long-lasting relationships and higher through-cycle sales. The majority of our steelmaking operations are in locations near sustainable sources of scrap metals and near our customer base, allowing us to realize freight savings for inbound scrap as well as for outbound steel products destined for our customers. This also allows us to provide consistent on-time delivery to our customer base with relatively short lead times, further solidifying our customer relationships. This diversified portfolio of products enables us to access a broad range of markets, serve a large customer base, and helps mitigate our market exposure to any one product or sector, resulting in increased through-cycle steel mill utilization. In addition, our value-added steel product offerings help to balance our exposure to commodity grade products supplied by other steel manufacturers. We will continue to seek additional opportunities and to collaborate with our customers to anticipate their future needs by further expanding our range of products and offerings. Our new Southwest-Sinton Flat Roll Division growth investment is a prime example of our internal growth and differentiated business model. This electric arc furnace (EAF) flat roll steel mill will have approximately 3.0 million tons of annual steel production capacity, including value-added coating lines comprised of a galvanizing line with annual coating capacity of 550,000 tons with galvalume capability, and a paint line with annual coating capacity of 250,000 tons. As with all our growth initiatives, we seek to competitively differentiate ourselves through service, product capability and quality, and supply chain solutions. This investment encompasses each of these elements. By leveraging our construction and operating expertise, this next-generation EAF flat roll steel mill will have product size and quality production capabilities beyond that of existing domestic EAF flat roll steel producers, competing even more effectively with the integrated steel model and foreign competition. Our new steel mill will have the capability to provide higher-strength, tougher grades of flat roll steel for the energy and automotive markets. These ultra-high-strength steel products are not currently readily available from other domestic steel producers. We are also building four additional value-added flat roll steel coating lines comprised of a paint line and a galvanizing line located onsite at each of our Southwest-Sinton and Heartland Flat Roll divisions. These lines will provide high-margin product and end-market diversification. The Southwest-Sinton Flat Roll Division construction team experienced several challenges during 2021, including weather related events, supply chain disruptions and the ongoing COVID-19 impact on the construction industry, which caused some delays. The team navigated these challenges, and the two coating lines were commissioned in the second half of 2021, with the remainder of the operations commencing in early 2022. 4 Table of Contents The Southwest-Sinton Flat Roll Division has significant competitive advantages including geographic market positioning, power accessibility, competitive freight for the intended customers, proximity to a deep-water port and site constructability. By locating our new steel mill in Sinton, Texas, we strategically targeted underserved markets that are largely reliant on imports with long lead times and lower product quality capabilities, providing customers throughout the Southwest United States and Mexico significant freight benefits and shorter lead times allowing them to realize working capital advantages. Additionally, six steel customers have committed to locate onsite, representing over 1.8 million tons of annual flat roll steel processing and consumption capacity. All of these customers have broken ground on their respective operations. Our new EAF steel mill is adhering to the same sustainability model as our other steelmaking facilities, utilizing state of the art environmental controls and processes to produce high quality sustainable steel. Our existing EAF steel mills have a fraction of the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) and energy intensity of average traditional integrated steelmaking technology, resulting in a much more environmentally responsible steel production alternative. Vertically Connected Businesses and Pull-Through Volume Advantage Our vertically connected businesses contribute to our higher through-cycle steel production and overall profitability. Steel demand that is generated from our internal manufacturing businesses is a significant competitive advantage supporting higher and more stable through-cycle earnings and cash flow generation. Our steel fabrication operations and downstream processing locations use a significant amount of steel in their operations. During weaker demand environments, we can source more of their needs internally, and during strong demand environments, we can source more of their needs externally at a preferred cost. Ultimately, we optimize our company-wide profitability in all steel demand environments. In 2021, our own steel consuming businesses purchased nearly 1.7 million tons of steel from our steel mills, representing 15% of our total 2021 steel shipments. A strategic synergistic relationship also exists between our steel mills and metals recycling operations, which is the largest supplier of recycled ferrous scrap to our steel operations. This allows us to manage company-wide working capital, as we can retain less scrap inventory at the steel mills, and we are able to source higher-quality scrap for our steel mills, optimizing cost and quality. Additionally, as a consistent consumer of recycled ferrous scrap, our steel operations help maintain steady sales for the metals recycling platform. Technically Advanced, Low-Cost, Highly-Efficient Operations We operate some of the most technically advanced and environmentally responsible steel operations when compared to global steelmaking operations. We are focused on maintaining one of the lowest operating cost structures in the North American steel industry. Our value-added product diversification, vertically connected businesses, and performance-based incentive compensation programs drive our efficient, environmentally responsible, and competitively advantaged footprint. Our low operating costs are primarily a result of our efficient plant designs and operations, our high productivity rate, our focus on ongoing maintenance requirements and strategic locations near sources of our primary raw material, ferrous scrap, and near our customers. We will continue to develop innovative ways to use our equipment, enhance our productivity and explore new technologies to further improve our unit costs of production at each of our facilities. As one of the lowest cost producers in each of our three primary operating segments, we are able to better manage through all market cycles, and to consistently maximize our profitability. Additionally, we continuously seek to maximize the variability of our cost structure and to reduce per unit and fixed costs. Sustainability Sustainability is a part of our long-term value creation strategy. We are dedicated to our people, our communities and our environment. We are committed to operating our business with the highest integrity and have been since our founding. 5 Table of Contents We only produce steel using EAF technology, which uses recycled ferrous scrap as the primary raw material. EAF steelmaking technology generates a mere fraction of the carbon emissions produced and energy intensity required by traditional blast furnace steelmaking technology. We believe EAF production is currently the steelmaking technology that provides the least environmental impact, is the most cost effective, and provides the most flexibility, and as such, has been a focus of our growth strategy. Our intentional growth strategy has focused on increasing through-cycle cash generation and providing growth opportunities for our people, partners, communities, and shareholders, all while keeping sustainability of resources and our impact to the environment at the fore. We have intentionally developed a vertically connected operating model, further strengthening our company by creating a circular manufacturing model. Our metals recycling platform collects and processes scrap from manufacturing and end-of-life items, such as automobiles, appliances, and machinery. This processed scrap is then sold to end-users for reuse, including our EAF steel mills, which produce new steel from the scrapped material. Our steel is then sold to consumers that both further process and manufacture end products. We sell a meaningful amount of steel to our own manufacturing businesses that in turn sell finished products to consumers. Ultimately, when these products reach the end of their life cycle, they can be collected as scrap and used again in our steelmaking operations, creating our circular manufacturing model. We recognize that minimizing the impact of GHG is important to our stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders, local communities and team members. We endeavor for continuous improvement in minimizing carbon dioxide emissions, while maintaining compliance with regulation emission limits. We monitor our GHG emissions by regularly reviewing furnace performance and efficiency. We analyze the latest available technologies to also determine whether emissions can be minimized. Our carbon mitigation strategy and our related goals announced in July 2021 are integral to our overarching sustainability program to address climate-related considerations. Our Board of Directors provides oversight concerning the company s sustainability strategy, disclosures, and climate-related impact. Our senior leadership, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and senior executives of our operating platforms, establish our near- and long-term strategies related to our climate-related assessments, goals, and programs. Experienced Leadership Team / Fosters an Entrepreneurial Culture Our senior leadership team is highly experienced and has a proven track record in the steel, metals recycling, and steel fabrication industries. Our leadership objectives are closely aligned with our stakeholders through meaningful stock ownership positions and performance-based incentive compensation programs that are correlated to the company s profitability and operational performance in relationship to our steel manufacturing peers. We emphasize decentralized operational decision making and responsibility, while continuing to maintain appropriate corporate governance and risk oversight. We reward teamwork, innovation, and operating efficiency, and focus on maintaining the effectiveness of our performance-driven incentive bonus plans that are designed to maximize overall productivity and align the interests of our leadership and teams with our stakeholders. Name Age Position Mark D. Millett 62 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Theresa E. Wagler 51 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary Russell B. Rinn 64 Executive Vice President, Metals Recycling Miguel Alvarez 54 Senior Vice President, Southwest United States and Mexico Christopher A. Graham 57 Senior Vice President, Long Products Steel Group Glenn A. Pushis 56 Senior Vice President, Special Projects Barry T. Schneider 53 Senior Vice President, Flat Roll Steel Group James S. Anderson 61 Vice President, Steel Fabrication Mark D. Millett co-founded the company in 1993. Mr. Millett has been the Board Chair since May 2021 and has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012. Prior to that, he held various positions within the company, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President of Metals Recycling and Ferrous Resources, and Executive Vice President of Flat Roll Operations. Mr. Millett was responsible for the design, 6 Table of Contents construction, and start-up operation of all of our steel mills, including our Butler, Indiana flat roll, melting, and casting operations. Mr. Millett currently serves as Chairman of the Steel Manufacturers Association (SMA). During 2019, Mr. Millett was named the recipient of the James F. Collins Achievement in Advocacy Award by the SMA. During 2014, Mr. Millet was named Steelmaker of the Year by the Association of Iron and Steel Technology. Mr. Millett earned his bachelor s degree in metallurgy from the University of Surrey, England. Theresa E. Wagler has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary since May 2007. Ms. Wagler joined the Steel Dynamics corporate finance team in 1998, and has held various finance and accounting positions, including Chief Accounting Officer and Vice President and Corporate Controller. She is responsible for and oversees accounting and taxation, treasury, risk management, legal, information technology and cyber security, health and safety, human resources, sustainability strategy, and strategic business development functions, as well as, financial planning and analysis, investor relations, and corporate communications. Ms. Wagler also has various operational responsibilities directly overseeing two operating joint ventures. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, Ms. Wagler was a certified public accountant with Ernst Young LLP. She graduated cum laude from Taylor University with a bachelor s degree in accounting and systems analysis. In addition, Ms. Wagler serves as a director and chair of the audit committee of CF Industries Holdings, Inc., a public company, and also serves as a director for Trine University and for the Metals Service Center Institute. Russell B. Rinn has been our Executive Vice President, Metals Recycling since July 2011. Mr. Rinn is responsible for OmniSource s ferrous and nonferrous metals recycling operations including marketing, trading, and logistics activities. OmniSource procures metal scrap, processes it, and markets these recycled metals to external customers and supplies ferrous scrap to the company s steel mills. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, Mr. Rinn was an Executive Vice President and President of Americas Division of Commercial Metals Company (CMC), a Texas-based mini-mill steel company. He has more than 40 years of experience in the steel and metals recycling industries. Mr. Rinn is a graduate of the Executive Program of the Stanford University Graduate School of Business and of the Management Development Program at the University of Michigan s Business School. He holds a bachelor s degree in Finance, Marketing and Business Administration from Texas Lutheran University. Miguel Alvarez has been our Senior Vice President, Southwest United States and Mexico, since February 2019. Mr. Alvarez is responsible for the comprehensive business development and partnerships in the regions, encompassing both steel and recycled metals. Prior to joining Steel Dynamics, Mr. Alvarez served in leadership positions at BlueScope; this includes leading BlueScope s North American metal buildings business with manufacturing facilities in the United States and Mexico, and being responsible for BlueScope s only North American electric arc furnace flat roll steel mill as President of North Star BlueScope Steel. Mr. Alvarez earned a bachelor s degree in industrial engineering and an MBA from Tecnol gico de Monterrey, M xico. Christopher A. Graham has been our Senior Vice President, Long Products Steel Group, since February 2019. In this role, Mr. Graham is responsible for the company s four long product steel mills and a downstream finishing operation. Prior to that, Mr. Graham served as Senior Vice President, Downstream Manufacturing and President of New Millennium Building Systems, responsible for the company s steel fabrication and downstream manufacturing operations, and other operational and leadership roles. Mr. Graham was also a part of the team that constructed the company s first steel mill in Butler, Indiana, in 1994. Mr. Graham earned a bachelor s degree in business management from Western Governors University and an MBA from the University of Saint Francis. Glenn A. Pushis has been our Senior Vice President, Special Projects, since February 2019. Mr. Pushis is responsible for the successful design and construction of the company s new Southwest-Sinton Flat Roll Division. He has extensive experience in this capacity and has been instrumental in numerous construction projects for Steel Dynamics since its founding. Prior to that, Mr. Pushis served as Senior Vice President, Long Products Steel Group, responsible for the company s four long product steel mills. Mr. Pushis has been with Steel Dynamics since 1994, holding various operational and leadership roles, including roles within the Engineered Bar Products Division and the Butler Flat Roll Division. He was also part of the team that constructed the company s first steel mill in Butler, Indiana, in 1994. Mr. Pushis earned a bachelor s degree in mechanical engineering from Purdue University and his MBA from Indiana University. 7 Table of Contents Barry T. Schneider has been our Senior Vice President, Flat Roll Steel Group, since March 2016. Mr. Schneider is responsible for the company s entire flat roll steel operations, including the company s two flat roll steel mills and numerous flat roll processing, coating, and distribution operations. Before that, Mr. Schneider served in various operational and leadership roles within the company s steel operations, including our Engineered Bar Products Division and Butler Flat Roll Division. He was also part of the team that constructed the company s first steel mill in Butler, Indiana, in 1994. Mr. Schneider earned a bachelor s degree in mechanical engineering and a master of science in engineering management from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology. In addition, Mr. Schneider serves as a director for the Association of Iron Steel Technology and Unity Aluminum. James S. Anderson has been our Vice President, Steel Fabrication, and President of New Millennium Building Systems, since February 2019. In this role, Mr. Anderson is responsible for the company s steel fabrication operations. Prior to that, Mr. Anderson served as the Chief Operating Officer of New Millennium Building Systems, and was the general manager of The Techs three flat roll galvanizing lines. Mr. Anderson earned a bachelor s degree in metallurgical engineering from Grove City College and an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh. Human Capital / Valuing