Item 1 Business 4 Item 1A Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 2 Properties 48 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 48 Supplemental Item Information about our Executive Officers 49 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 54 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 General 55 Overview of Financial Results 57 Consolidated Results of Operations 61 Total Revenue 61 Net Interest Income 64 Provision for Loan Losses 67 Expenses 67 Acquisition Costs 67 Restructuring and Repositioning Charges 67 Income Tax Expense 68 Line of Business Information 68 Investment Servicing 69 Investment Management 72 Financial Condition 74 Investment Securities 75 Loans and Leases 78 Cross-Border Outstandings 79 Risk Management 80 Credit Risk Management 84 Liquidity Risk Management 89 Operational Risk Management 93 Information Technology Risk Management 97 Market Risk Management 98 Model Risk Management 105 Strategic Risk Management 106 Capital 106 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 115 Significant Accounting Estimates 115 Recent Accounting Developments 117 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 117 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 117 State Street Corporation | 2 Consolidated statement of income 120 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 121 Consolidated statement of condition 122 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity 123 Consolidated statement of cash flows 124 Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 125 Note 2. Fair Value 128 Note 3. Investment Securities 135 Note 4. Loans 141 Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 143 Note 6. Other Assets 145 Note 7. Deposits 145 Note 8. Short-Term Borrowings 145 Note 9. Long-Term Debt 146 Note 10. Derivative Financial Instruments 147 Note 11. Offsetting Arrangements 152 Note 12. Commitments and Guarantees 155 Note 13. Contingencies 156 Note 14. Variable Interest Entities 158 Note 15. Shareholders' Equity 159 Note 16. Regulatory Capital 162 Note 17. Net Interest Income 164 Note 18. Equity-Based Compensation 164 Note 19. Employee Benefits 165 Note 20. Occupancy Expense and Information Systems and Communications Expense 166 Note 21. Expenses 167 Note 22. Income Taxes 168 Note 23. Earnings Per Common Share 169 Note 24. Line of Business Information 170 Note 25. Revenue From Contracts with customers 172 Note 26. Non-U.S. Activities 174 Note 27. Parent Company Financial Statements 174 Note 28. Subsequent Events 175 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 180 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 180 Item 9B Other Information 183 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 183 Item 11 Executive Compensation 183 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 183 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 184 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 184 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 184 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 184 EXHIBIT INDEX 185 SIGNATURES 188 State Street Corporation | 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL State Street Corporation, referred to as the Parent Company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts . Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000). For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to State Street, we, us, our or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Parent Company is a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiaries. Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide, with $34.36 trillion of AUC/A and $3.12 trillion of AUM as of December 31, 2019 . As of December 31, 2019 , we had consolidated total assets of $245.61 billion , consolidated total deposits of $181.87 billion , consolidated total shareholders' equity of $24.43 billion and over 39,000 employees. We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. On the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.statestreet.com , we make available, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. Information on those websites is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K . We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Examining and Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Human Resources Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Committee and the Technology and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on the "Investor Relations" section of our website under "Corporate Governance." We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities) and the liquidity coverage ratio, summary results of State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Act and resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These additional disclosures are available on the Investor Relations section of our website under "Filings and Reports." We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list and glossary under Item 8 in this Form 10-K . BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Overview We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960. State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust or custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients. Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. LINES OF BUSINESS We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. Investme nt Servicing Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, settlement and payment services. Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe. As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global trust and custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments. Our Investment Servicing products and services include: custody; product and participant level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by non-U.S. regulation); record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, State Street Corporation | 4 brokerage and other trading services; securities finance and enhanced custody products; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; performance, risk and compliance analytics; and financial data management to support institutional investors. Included within our Investment Servicing line of business is Charles River Systems, Inc. (CRD), which we acquired on October 1, 2018. As a result of our acquisition of CRD, we are extending our core capabilities by creating our State Street Alpha SM platform (State Street Alpha) that combines our core back and middle office services with front office solutions across all asset classes for portfolio management, trading and compliance. Products and services related to CRD include: portfolio modeling and construction, trade order management, investment risk and compliance and wealth management solutions. We provide some or all of the Investment Servicing integrated products and services to clients in the U.S. and in many other markets, including, among others, Australia, Cayman Islands, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg and the U.K. As of December 31, 2019 , we serviced AUC/A of approximately $25.02 trillion in the Americas, approximately $7.33 trillion in Europe and the Middle East and approximately $2.02 trillion in the Asia-Pacific region. Investment M anagement Our Investment Management line of business , through State Street Global Advisors, provides a broad range of investment management strategies and products for our clients. Our investment management strategies and products span the risk/reward spectrum, including core and enhanced indexing, multi-asset strategies, active quantitative and fundamental active capabilities and alternative investment strategies. Our AUM is currently primarily weighted to indexed strategies. In addition, we provide a breadth of services and solutions, including environmental, social and governance investing, defined benefit and defined contribution and Global Fiduciary Solutions (formerly Outsourced Chief Investment Officer). State Street Global Advisors is also a provider of ETFs, including the SPDR ETF brand. While management fees are primarily determined by the values of AUM and the investment strategies employed, management fees reflect other factors as well, including the benchmarks specified in the respective management agreements related to performance fees. As of December 31, 2019 , State Street Global Advisors had AUM of approximately $3.12 trillion . Additional information about our lines of business is provided under Line of Business Information included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K . Additional information about our non-U.S. activities is included in Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K . COMPET ITION We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of our business globally. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, investment analytics businesses, business service and software companies and information services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business. Technological expertise, economies of scale, required levels of capital, pricing, quality and scope of services, and sales and marketing are critical to our Investment Servicing line of business. For our Investment Management line of business, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service, price, efficiency of our products and services, and performance. Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to integrate existing and future products and services effectively into our State Street Alpha, to continue to expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients. We are a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) and are subject to extensive regulation and supervision with respect to our operations and activities. Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same limitations, requirements and standards with respect to their operations and activities. Most other financial institutions designated as systemically important have substantially greater financial resources and a broader base of operations than us and are, consequently, in a better competitive position to manage and bear the costs of this enhanced regulatory requirement. See "Supervision and Regulation" in this Item for more information. State Street Corporation | 5 SUPERVISION AND REGULATION We are registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank Holding Company Act generally limits the activities in which bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries may engage to managing or controlling banks and to a range of activities that are considered to be closely related to banking. Bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as the Parent Company, may engage in a broader range of activities considered to be "financial in nature." The regulatory limits on our activities also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to control for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank. The Parent Company has elected to be treated as a financial holding company and, as such, may engage in a broader range of non-banking activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries that have not elected to become financial holding companies. Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly, either de novo or by acquisition, in activities that are defined by the Federal Reserve to be financial in nature, provided that the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; making merchant banking investments, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and each of our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries are expected to be well capitalized and well managed, as defined in applicable regulations and determined in part by the results of regulatory examinations, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may result in restrictions on our activities and may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us and restrict our ability to engage in activities defined to be financial in nature. Currently, under the Bank Holding Company Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other businesses. In response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors, such as technological and market changes, both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which our business is subject have increased in recent years. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place. The U.S. President issued an executive order that sets forth principles for the reform of the federal financial regulatory framework, and, in May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA) was enacted. The EGRRCPA s revisions to the U.S. financial regulatory framework have altered certain laws and regulations applicable to us and other major financial services firms. Irrespective of any regulatory change, we expect that our business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. In addition, increased regulatory requirements have been and are being implemented internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the Basel III rule (refer to Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards in this Supervision and Regulation section and under "Capital" in Financial Condition in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K for a discussion of Basel III), the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation ( EMIR ), the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities ( UCITS ) directives, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II ( MiFID II), the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR) and the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Some aspects of our public disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards Basel III Rule The Parent Company and State Street Bank, as advanced approaches banking organizations, are subject to the Basel III framework in the U.S. Provisions State Street Corporation | 6 of the Basel III rule that became fully implemented as of January 1, 2019. Since January 2013, we have been subject to the market risk capital rule jointly issued by U.S. banking regulators to implement the changes to the market risk capital framework in the U.S. The Basel III rule provides for two frameworks for the calculation of RWA for purposes of bank regulatory compliance: the standardized approach and the advanced approaches, which are applicable to advanced approaches banking organizations, like us. The standardized approach prescribes standardized risk weights for certain on- and off-balance sheet exposures in the calculation of RWA. The advanced approaches consist of the Advanced Internal Ratings-Based Approach (AIRB) used for the calculation of RWA related to credit risk, and the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) used for the calculation of RWA related to operational risk. Among other things, the Basel III rule requires: a minimum CET1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% and a minimum SLR of 3% for advanced approaches banking organizations; a minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%; a minimum total capital ratio of 8%; the capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffers, referenced below, as well as a G-SIB surcharge included under "Capital" in "Financial Condition" in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K ; the previously described standardized approach to replace the calculation of credit RWA under Basel I; and the advanced approaches for the calculation of credit RWA. Under the Basel III rule, our total regulatory capital is composed of three tiers: CET1 capital, tier 1 capital (which includes CET1 capital), and tier 2 capital. The total of tier 1 and tier 2 capital, adjusted as applicable, is referred to as total regulatory capital. CET1 capital is composed of core capital elements, such as qualifying common shareholders' equity and related surplus; retained earnings; the cumulative effect of foreign currency translation; and net unrealized gains (losses) on debt and equity securities classified as AFS; reduced by treasury stock. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of related deferred tax liabilities, are deducted from the core CET1 capital elements. Tier 1 capital is composed of CET1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital instruments which, for us, includes five series of preferred equity outstanding as of December 31, 2019. Tier 2 capital includes certain eligible subordinated long-term debt instruments. The Basel III phase-in and phase-out schedules for calculating regulatory capital that apply to State Street have concluded and our capital measures are considered fully phased-in. Minimum capital ratio, buffer, and G-SIB surcharge requirements became fully phased-in as of January 1, 2019. Certain other items, if applicable, must be deducted from tier 1 and tier 2 capital. These items primarily include deductible investments in unconsolidated banking, financial and insurance entities where we hold more than 50% of the entities' capital and the amount of expected credit losses that exceeds recorded allowances for loan and other credit losses. Expected credit losses are calculated for wholesale credit exposures by formula in conformity with the Basel III rule. The eight U.S. banks deemed to be G-SIBs, including us, are required to calculate the G-SIB surcharge annually according to two methods, and be bound by the higher of the two: Method 1: Assesses systemic importance based upon five equally-weighted components: size, interconnectedness, complexity, cross-jurisdictional activity and substitutability; or Method 2: Alters the calculation from Method 1 by factoring in a wholesale funding score in place of substitutability and applying a 2x multiplier to the sum of the five components. Method 2 at December 31, 2019 is the binding methodology for us, and our applicable surcharge for 2019 was calculated to be 1.5% based on a calculation date of December 31, 2017. Based on a calculation date of December 31, 2018, our G-SIB capital surcharge for 2020 will be reduced to 1.0%. Assuming a countercyclical buffer of 0%, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2020, including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and a G-SIB surcharge of 1.0% in 2020, are 8.0% for CET1 capital, 9.5% for tier 1 risk-based capital and 11.5% for total risk-based capital, in order for us to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments without limitation. Since January 1, 2018, the U.S. banking regulators have required (i) the eight U.S. G-SIBs, including us, to maintain a minimum SLR of 5% in order to avoid any limitations on distributions to shareholders and discretionary bonus payments to certain executives and (ii) the insured depository institution subsidiaries of such G-SIBs (in our case, State Street Bank) to maintain a minimum SLR of 6% to be considered well-capitalized. On April 11, 2018, the Federal Reserve proposed modifications to the SLR that would replace the current 2% SLR buffer applicable to us with a SLR buffer equal to 50% of our applicable G-SIB capital surcharge. Currently we are subject to a 2% leverage buffer under the Basel III rule, subject to the Federal Reserve s proposed changes to the SLR. If we fail to maintain the 2% leverage buffer, we will be subject to restrictions regarding capital distributions and discretionary executive bonus payments, which will be increasingly stringent based upon the extent of the shortfall. State Street Corporation | 7 In addition to the SLR, we are subject to a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which differs from the SLR primarily in that the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio is a quarterly average of on-balance sheet assets and does not include any off-balance sheet exposures. Furthermore, EGRRCPA directed the U.S. banking regulators to amend their regulations to exclude certain central bank balances from the measure of total leverage exposure, the SLR denominator, for custody banks (including the Parent Company and State Street Bank). Specifically, central bank balances would be excluded to the extent of the value of client deposits at the custody bank that are linked to fiduciary, custody or safekeeping accounts. In November 2019, the Federal Reserve and the other U.S. federal banking agencies adopted a final rule that establishes a deduction for central bank deposits from a custodial banking organization s total leverage exposure equal to the lesser of (i) the total amount of funds the custodial banking organization and its consolidated subsidiaries have on deposit at qualifying central banks and (ii) the total amount of client funds on deposit at the custodial banking organization that are linked to fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping accounts. The rule becomes effective on April 1, 2020. In the quarter ended December 31, 2019, we estimated $48.87 billion of average balances held on deposit at central banks will be excluded from the SLR denominator under our interpretation of the rule, which would impact the SLR by approximately 150 bps. The TLAC and LTD that State Street is required to hold as calculated under the current requirements will also be reduced as a consequence of the rule . Under the Basel III rule, a banking organization would be able to make capital distributions (subject to other regulatory constraints, such as regulatory review of its capital plans) and discretionary bonus payments without specified limitations, as long as it maintains the required capital conservation buffer of 2.5% plus the applicable G-SIB surcharge (plus any potentially applicable countercyclical capital buffer) over the minimum required risk-based capital ratios and well capitalized leverage based requirements. Banking regulators would establish the minimum countercyclical capital buffer, which was initially set by banking regulators at zero, up to a maximum of 2.5% of total RWAs under certain economic conditions. The Federal Reserve has proposed changes to its stress testing and capital planning rules that would replace the capital conservation buffer with a Stress Capital Buffer. For additional information about the proposal, refer to Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. On November 19, 2019, the U.S. federal banking regulators issued a final rule that, among other things, implements the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR), a new methodology for calculating the exposure amount for derivative contracts under the U.S. regulatory capital rules. Under the final rule, which contains some modifications from the related proposal issued by the U.S. federal banking regulators on October 30, 2018, we will have the option to use the SA-CCR or the Internal Model Methodology (IMM) to measure the exposure amount of our cleared and uncleared derivative transactions under our advanced approaches calculation. We will be required to determine the amount of these exposures using the SA-CCR under our standardized approach capital calculation. In addition, the final rule provides a simplified formula we will be required to use to determine the RWA amount of our central counterparty default fund contributions. The final rule also requires us to incorporate the SA-CCR into the calculation of our total leverage exposure for the purpose of calculating SLR. The effective date of this final rule implementing the SA-CCR is April 1, 2020, with a mandatory compliance date for advanced approaches organizations, like us, of January 1, 2022. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, we and State Street Bank, as advanced approaches banking organizations, are subject to a permanent "capital floor," also referred to as the Collins Amendment, in the assessment of our regulatory capital adequacy, including the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer described above in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. Our risk-based capital ratios for regulatory assessment purposes are the lower of each ratio calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches. As a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. Our status as a G-SIB has also resulted in heightened prudential and conduct expectations of our U.S. and international regulators wi