Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 23 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 52 Item 2 Properties 52 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 52 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 52 Supplemental Item Information about our Executive Officers 53 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 54 Item 6 [Reserved] 57 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 57 General 57 Overview of Financial Results 58 Consolidated Results of Operations 62 Total Revenue 62 Net Interest Income 70 Other Income 73 Provision for Credit Losses 73 Expenses 73 Acquisition Costs 74 Restructuring and Repositioning Charges 74 Income Tax Expense 74 Line of Business Information 74 Investment Servicing 75 Investment Management 76 Financial Condition 77 Investment Securities 78 Loans 81 Cross-Border Outstandings 82 Risk Management 83 Credit Risk Management 88 Liquidity Risk Management 93 Operational Risk Management 99 Information Technology Risk Management 102 Market Risk Management 103 Model Risk Management 111 Strategic Risk Management 112 Capital 113 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 123 Significant Accounting Estimates 123 Recent Accounting Developments 126 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 127 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 127 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 128 Consolidated Statement of Income 130 State Street Corporation | 2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 131 Consolidated Statement of Condition 132 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity 133 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 134 Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 135 Note 2. Fair Value 137 Note 3. Investment Securities 144 Note 4. Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 149 Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 154 Note 6. Other Assets 156 Note 7. Deposits 156 Note 8. Short-Term Borrowings 156 Note 9. Long-Term Debt 157 Note 10. Derivative Financial Instruments 158 Note 11. Offsetting Arrangements 162 Note 12. Commitments and Guarantees 165 Note 13. Contingencies 166 Note 14. Variable Interest Entities 168 Note 15. Shareholders' Equity 169 Note 16. Regulatory Capital 171 Note 17. Net Interest Income 173 Note 18. Equity-Based Compensation 173 Note 19. Employee Benefits 175 Note 20. Occupancy Expense and Information Systems and Communications Expense 175 Note 21. Expenses 177 Note 22. Income Taxes 177 Note 23. Earnings Per Common Share 179 Note 24. Line of Business Information 179 Note 25. Revenue From Contracts with customers 181 Note 26. Non-U.S. Activities 184 Note 27. Parent Company Financial Statements 184 Note 28. Subsequent Events 185 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 190 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 190 Item 9B Other Information 193 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 193 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 193 Item 11 Executive Compensation 193 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 193 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 194 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 194 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 194 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 194 EXHIBIT INDEX 195 SIGNATURES 198 State Street Corporation | 3 Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K, as well as other reports and proxy materials submitted by us under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, registration statements filed by us under the Securities Act of 1933, our annual report to shareholders and other public statements we may make, may contain statements (including statements in our Management's Discussion and Analysis included in such reports, as applicable) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S. securities laws, including statements about our goals and expectations regarding our business, financial and capital condition, results of operations, strategies, cost savings and transformation initiatives, investment portfolio performance, dividend and stock purchase programs, acquisitions (including, without limitation, our planned acquisition of Brown Brothers Harriman's Investor Services business), outcomes of legal proceedings, market growth, joint ventures and divestitures, client growth and new technologies, services and opportunities, as well as industry, governmental, regulatory, economic and market trends, initiatives and developments, the business environment and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. Terminology such as plan, expect, intend, objective, forecast, outlook, believe, priority, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target, strategy and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management's expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made and are not guarantees of future results. Management's expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the U.S. and global economies, regulatory environment and the equity , debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to State Street and its subsidiaries, including State Street Bank. Factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based cannot be foreseen with certainty and include the factors described under the headings "Risk Factors Summary" and "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including under "Management's Discussion and Analysis." Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K or disclosed in our other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K should not be relied on as representing our expectations or assumptions as of any time subsequent to the time this Form 10-K is filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to revise our forward-looking statements after the time they are made. The factors discussed herein are not intended to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. We cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our business or operations or our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions and should not be the primary basis on which investors evaluate State Street. Any investor in State Street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our SEC filings, including our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in particular our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, or registration statements filed under the Securities Act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.statestreet.com . Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the material risks we are exposed to in the course of our business activities. The below summary does not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read the below summary together with the more detailed discussion of risks set forth under the heading "Risk Factors," as well as elsewhere in this Form 10-K under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis." Strategic Risks The consummation of our planned acquisition of the BBH Investor Services business is subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other closing conditions, the failure or delay of which may prevent or delay the consummation of the acquisition; Even if we successfully consummate our planned acquisition of the BBH Investor Services business, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction or the benefits may take longer to realize than expected; We are subject to intense competition, which could negatively affect our profitability; We are subject to significant pricing pressure and variability in our financial results and our AUC/A and AUM; Our development and completion of new products and services, including State Street Digital or State Street Alpha, and the State Street Corporation | 4 enhancement of our infrastructure required to meet increased regulatory and client expectations for resiliency and the systems and process re-engineering necessary to achieve improved productivity and reduced operating risk, may involve costs and dependencies and expose us to increased risk; Our business may be negatively affected by our failure to update and maintain our technology infrastructure; The COVID-19 pandemic continues to exacerbate certain risks and uncertainties for our business; Acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures, and the integration, retention and development of the benefits of our acquisitions, pose risks for our business; and Competition for qualified members of our workforce is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. Financial Market Risks We could be adversely affected by geopolitical, economic and market conditions; We have significant International operations, and disruptions in European and Asian economies could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition; Our investment securities portfolio, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets; Our business activities expose us to interest rate risk; We assume significant credit risk to counterparties, who may also have substantial financial dependencies with other financial institutions, and these credit exposures and concentrations could expose us to financial loss; Our fee revenue represents a significant portion of our consolidated revenue and is subject to decline based on, among other factors, market and currency declines, investment activities of our clients and their business mix; If we are unable to effectively manage our capital and liquidity, our consolidated financial condition, capital ratios, results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected; We may need to raise additional capital or debt in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms; and If we experience a downgrade in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, our borrowing and capital costs, liquidity and reputation could be adversely affected. Compliance and Regulatory Risks Our business and capital-related activities, including common share repurchases, may be adversely affected by capital and liquidity standards required as a result of capital stress testing; We face extensive and changing government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which may increase our costs and compliance risks; We are subject to enhanced external oversight as a result of the resolution of prior regulatory or governmental matters; Our businesses may be adversely affected by government enforcement and litigation; Any misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects; Our calculations of risk exposures, total RWA and capital ratios depend on data inputs, formulae, models, correlations and assumptions that are subject to change, which could materially impact our risk exposures, our total RWA and our capital ratios from period to period; Changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our consolidated financial statements; Changes in tax laws, rules or regulations, challenges to our tax positions and changes in the composition of our pre-tax earnings may increase our effective tax rate; and The transition away from LIBOR may result in additional costs and increased risk exposure. Operational Risks Our control environment may be inadequate, fail or be circumvented, and operational risks could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations; Cost shifting to non-U.S. jurisdictions and outsourcing may expose us to increased operational risk, geopolitical risk and State Street Corporation | 5 reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings; Attacks or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of the third parties with which we do business, or disruptions to our or their continuous operations, could result in significant costs, reputational damage and impacts on our business activities; Long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk; Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm; We may not be able to protect our intellectual property; The quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that could result in material harm; Our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our clients incur substantial losses or are restricted in redeeming their interests in investment pools that we sponsor or manage; The impacts of climate change, and regulatory responses to such risks, could adversely affect us; and We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen events including terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the emergence of a new pandemic or acts of embezzlement. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL State Street Corporation, referred to as the Parent Company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000). For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to State Street, we, us, our or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Parent Company is a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiaries. Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide, with $43.68 trillion of AUC/A and $4.14 trillion of AUM as of December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, we had consolidated total assets of $314.62 billion, consolidated total deposits of $255.04 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of $27.36 billion and approximately 39,000 employees. We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. On the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.statestreet.com , we make available, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. Information on those websites (or any other) is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Examining and Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Human Resources Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Committee and the Technology and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on the "Investor Relations" section of our website under "Corporate Governance." We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities) and the liquidity coverage ratio, summary results of State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Act and resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These additional disclosures are available on the Investor Relations section of our website under "Filings and Reports." We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list and glossary under Item 8 in this Form 10-K. BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Overview We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960. State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a State Street Corporation | 6 trust or custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients. Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. LINES OF BUSINESS We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. Investment Servicing Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, settlement and payment services. Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe. As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global trust and custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments. Our Investment Servicing line of business, through State Street Institutional Services, State Street Global Markets, State Street Digital and CRD, provides services for institutional clients, including mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, investment managers, foundations and endowments worldwide. Products include: custody; product accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by non-U.S. regulation); record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance and enhanced custody products; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; performance, risk and compliance analytics; and financial data management to support institutional investors. Included within our Investment Servicing line of business is CRD, which we acquired in 2018. The Charles River Investment Management System is a technology offering which is designed to automate and simplify the institutional investment process across asset classes, from portfolio management and risk analytics through trading and post-trade settlement, with integrated compliance and managed data throughout. With the acquisition of CRD, we took the first step in building our front-to-back platform, State Street Alpha. Today our State Street Alpha platform combines portfolio management, trading and execution, analytics and compliance tools, and advanced data aggregation and integration with other industry platforms and providers. In 2021, we further expanded our technology offering with the acquisition of Mercatus, Inc., enabling the launch of Alpha for Private Markets. In 2021, we established State Street Digital to focus on the development of digital assets and technologies, including crypto, central bank digital currency, blockchain and tokenization, including the evolution of a new integrated business and digital operating model designed to support our clients' digital investment cycle. We provide some or all of the Investment Servicing integrated products and services to clients in the U.S. and in many other markets, including, among others, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Cayman Islands, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, South Korea and the U.K. As of December 31, 2021, we serviced AUC/A of approximately $32.43 trillion in the Americas, approximately $8.60 trillion in Europe and the Middle East and approximately $2.65 trillion in the Asia-Pacific region 1 . Investment Management Our Investment Management line of business , through State Street Global Advisors, provides a broad range of investment management strategies and products for our clients. Our investment management strategies and products span the risk/reward spectrum for equity, fixed income and cash assets, including core and enhanced indexing, multi-asset strategies, active quantitative and fundamental active capabilities and alternative investment strategies. Our AUM is currently primarily weighted to indexed strategies. In addition, we provide a breadth of services and solutions, including environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing, defined benefit and defined contribution and Global Fiduciary Solutions (formerly Outsourced Chief Investment Officer). State Street Global Advisors is also a provider of ETFs, including the SPDR ETF brand. As of December 31, 2021, State Street Global Advisors had AUM of approximately $4.14 trillion. Additional information about our lines of business is provided under Line of Business Information included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Additional information about our non-U.S. activities is included in Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 1 Geographic mix is generally based on the domicile of the entity servicing the funds and is not necessarily representative of the underlying asset mix. State Street Corporation | 7 COMPETITION We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of our business globally. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, investment analytics businesses, business service and software companies, technology companies, data providers and information services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business. Technological expertise, economies of scale, required levels of capital, pricing, quality and scope of services, and sales and marketing are critical to our Investment Servicing line of business. For our Investment Management line of business, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service, price, efficiency of our products and services, and performance. Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to implement efficiencies into our operational processes, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to integrate existing and future products and services effectively into State Street Alpha, to continue to expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients. We are a G-SIB and are subject to extensive regulation and supervision with respect to our operations and activities. Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same limitations, requirements and standards with respect to their operations and activities. Most other financial institutions designated as systemically important have substantially greater financial resources and a broader base of operations than we do and are, consequently, in a better competitive position to manage and bear the costs of this enhanced regulatory requirement. See "Supervision and Regulation" in this Item for more information. HUMAN RESOURCES Our employees are a core asset and a key driver of our long-term performance. Our employees drive the company s value proposition, innovate better ways to serve our clients and act as custodians of our reputation. We seek to empower our employees by providing development and learning opportunities to help each person reach their full potential, by promoting an inclusive and diverse workplace and by improving organizational effectiveness. Our human capital strategy is a meaningful driver of our overall enterprise strategy. In 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to have a significant impact on how we managed our workforce. We enhanced and expanded flexible work opportunities, embracing a hybrid model of working, while also giving nearly all employees the opportunity to return to the office. We also maintained enhanced employee benefits put in place in 2020, which vary based on location, with specific, pandemic-related offerings including providing support for COVID-19-related medical costs, additional time off, backup childcare options and reimbursement for home office equipment. Due to the net impact of hiring and attrition levels, both of which we monitor closely, our workforce at the end of 2021 was down 2% compared to 2020 at approximately 39,000 employees, 69% of whom are located outside the U.S. The Board of Directors Human Resources Committee oversees our human capital management strategy, and receives regular updates on matters such as recruitment, retention and inclusion and diversity initiatives. Our management-level Enterprise Talent Management Committee, which consists of senior executive leaders, provides leadership, input and advice on our global talent-related initiatives to support achievement of our strategic priority to continually seek to become a higher-performing organization and a destination for talent. Workforce Engagement and Culture Our culture and values help to define us as a company. Employees are expected to focus on the following culture traits as they carry out their work: Choose to Own It; Break Through Silos; Deliver Results with Integrity and Speed; Do Better Every Day; and Care for Our Colleagues, Clients and Community. We aim to promote strong levels of employee commitment and connection to the company by highlighting our shared culture traits and the behaviors that drive our business strategy, such as our annual Risk Excellence Awards, which recognize and reward employees who demonstrate exemplary risk management performance. We believe that an inclusive and diverse culture where employees feel valued and engaged will make State Street a more desirable place to work, help us to attract key talent and retain employees as they grow in their careers and foster an environment that enhances each individual s productivity and professional satisfaction. State Street Corporation | 8 We use our compensation program to incentivize our executives to role-model these shared culture traits. In determining executive compensation, we first measure enterprise-level performance, including leadership- and diversity-related performance. We then evaluate executives performance against individual objectives derived from our corporate goals, including their performance advancing and role-modeling the critical leadership behaviors and culture traits that drive our business strategy. The integrity and ethical decision-making of our employees is also paramount for our culture. We encourage employees to speak up if they see behavior that is inconsistent with our Standard of Conduct, culture or values, and we regularly communicate the multiple channels provided for them to do so, including our Speak Up Line, Conduct Risk Management team and other avenues. We want our employees to know their opinions are valued, to feel comfortable asking questions and raising concerns, to feel truly appreciated for acting responsibly by voicing concerns, and to have no fear of retaliation. Our approach is to promote ethical conduct by treating minor policy breaches as learning opportunities, and major policy breaches and misconduct promptly, professionally and seriously. Attracting and Retaining Top Talent Attracting and retaining top talent is critical to our business strategy, especially in particularly competitive labor markets, such as the environment in 2021. As such, we carefully monitor our hiring, promotion and turnover rates and implement programs to help retain