Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 24 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 54 Item 1C Cybersecurity 54 Item 2 Properties 54 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 54 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 54 Supplemental Item Information about our Executive Officers 55 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 58 Item 6 [Reserved] 61 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 61 General 61 Overview of Financial Results 62 Consolidated Results of Operations 65 Total Revenue 65 Net Interest Income 73 Provision for Credit Losses 76 Expenses 76 Acquisition and Restructuring Costs 77 Repositioning Charges 77 Income Tax Expense 77 Line of Business Information 77 Investment Servicing 77 Investment Management 78 Financial Condition 79 Investment Securities 79 Loans 83 Risk Management 84 Credit Risk Management 90 Liquidity Risk Management 94 Operational Risk Management 100 Information Technology Risk Management 101 Market Risk Management 103 Model Risk Management 110 Strategic Risk Management 111 Capital 112 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 121 Significant Accounting Estimates 121 Recent Accounting Developments 124 Other Matters 124 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 124 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 124 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 125 Consolidated Statement of Income 127 State Street Corporation | 2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 128 Consolidated Statement of Condition 129 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity 130 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 131 Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 132 Note 2. Fair Value 134 Note 3. Investment Securities 140 Note 4. Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 146 Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 151 Note 6. Other Assets 152 Note 7. Deposits 153 Note 8. Short-Term Borrowings 153 Note 9. Long-Term Debt 154 Note 10. Derivative Financial Instruments 155 Note 11. Offsetting Arrangements 159 Note 12. Commitments and Guarantees 162 Note 13. Contingencies 163 Note 14. Variable Interest Entities 165 Note 15. Shareholders' Equity 167 Note 16. Regulatory Capital 169 Note 17. Net Interest Income 171 Note 18. Equity-Based Compensation 171 Note 19. Employee Benefits 173 Note 20. Occupancy Expense and Information Systems and Communications Expense 173 Note 21. Expenses 175 Note 22. Income Taxes 175 Note 23. Earnings Per Common Share 177 Note 24. Line of Business Information 177 Note 25. Revenue from Contracts with Customers 179 Note 26. Non-U.S. Activities 182 Note 27. Parent Company Financial Statements 183 Note 28. Subsequent Events 184 Supplemental Financial Data 185 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 189 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 189 Item 9B Other Information 192 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 192 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 192 Item 11 Executive Compensation 192 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 192 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 193 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 193 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 194 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 194 EXHIBIT INDEX 195 SIGNATURES 198 State Street Corporation | 3 Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K, as well as other reports and proxy materials submitted by us under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, registration statements filed by us under the Securities Act of 1933, our annual report to shareholders and other public statements we may make, may contain statements (including statements in our Management's Discussion and Analysis included in such reports, as applicable) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S. securities laws, including statements about our goals and expectations regarding our business, financial and capital condition, results of operations, strategies, cost savings and transformation initiatives, investment portfolio performance, climate, dividend and stock purchase programs, acquisitions, outcomes of legal proceedings, market growth, joint ventures and divestitures, client growth, new technologies, services and opportunities, sustainability and impact, human capital, as well as industry, governmental, regulatory, economic and market trends, initiatives and developments, the business environment and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. Terminology such as expect, outlook, will, goal, target, strategy may, estimate, plan, intend, objective, forecast, believe, priority, anticipate, seek, and trend, or similar statements or variations of such terms, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management's expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made and are not guarantees of future results. Management's expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the U.S. and global economies, regulatory environment and the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to State Street and its subsidiaries, including State Street Bank. Factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based cannot be foreseen with certainty and include the factors described under the headings Risk Factors Summary and Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including under Management's Discussion and Analysis. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K or disclosed in our other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K should not be relied on as representing our expectations or assumptions as of any time subsequent to the time this Form 10-K is filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to revise our forward-looking statements after the time they are made. The factors discussed herein are not intended to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. We cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our business or operations or our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions and should not be the primary basis on which investors evaluate State Street. Any investor in State Street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our SEC filings, including our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in particular our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, or registration statements filed under the Securities Act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or on the Filings reports tab of our website at investors.statestreet.com . Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of material risks we are exposed to in the course of our business activities and which could have an adverse effect on our business or consolidated results of operations or financial condition. It does not contain all of the information that may be important to you and should be read together with the more detailed discussion of risks under the heading Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Form 10-K under the heading Management's Discussion and Analysis. Strategic Risks We are subject to intense competition, which could negatively affect our profitability; We are subject to significant pricing pressure and variability in our financial results and our AUC/A and AUM; Our development and completion of new products and services, including State Street Alpha and those related to digital assets and artificial intelligence, may impose costs on us, involve dependencies on third parties and may expose us to increased operational, model and other risks; Acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures, and the integration, retention and development of the benefits of these transactions, including the consolidation of our operations joint ventures in India, pose risks for our business; and State Street Corporation | 4 Competition for qualified members of our workforce is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. Financial Market Risks We could be adversely affected by political, geopolitical, economic and market conditions including, for example, as a result of liquidity or capital deficiencies (actual or perceived) by other financial institutions and related market and government actions, the Israel-Hamas war, ongoing war in Ukraine, major political elections globally, actions taken by central banks to address inflationary and growth pressures, monetary policy tightening, periods of significant volatility in valuations and liquidity or other disruptions in the markets for equity, fixed income and other assets classes globally or within specific markets; We have significant global operations and clients that can be adversely impacted by disruptions in key global economies, including local, regional and geopolitical developments affecting those economies; Our investment securities portfolio, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets, governmental action or monetary policy. For example, among other risks, increases in prevailing interest rates or market conditions have led, and were they to occur in the future could further lead, to reduced levels of client deposits and resulting decreases in our NII or to portfolio management decisions resulting in reductions in our capital or liquidity ratios; Our business activities expose us to interest rate risk; We assume significant credit risk of counterparties, who may also have substantial financial dependencies on other financial institutions, and these credit exposures and concentrations could expose us to financial loss; Our fee revenue represents a significant portion of our revenue and is subject to decline based on, among other factors, market and currency declines, investment activities and preferences of our clients and their business mix; If we are unable to effectively manage our capital and liquidity, our financial condition, capital ratios, results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected; Our calculations of risk exposures, total RWA and capital ratios depend on data inputs, formulae, models, correlations and assumptions that are subject to change, which could materially impact our risk exposures, our total RWA and our capital ratios from period to period; We may need to raise additional capital or debt in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms; and If we experience a downgrade in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, our borrowing and capital costs, liquidity and reputation could be adversely affected. Compliance and Regulatory Risks Our business and capital-related activities, including common share repurchases, may be adversely affected by regulatory requirements and considerations, including capital, credit and liquidity ; We face extensive and changing government regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which may increase our costs and compliance risks and may affect our business activities and strategies; Our businesses may be adversely affected by government enforcement and litigation; Our businesses may be adversely affected by increased and conflicting political and regulatory scrutiny of asset management stewardship and corporate sustainability or ESG practices; Any misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects; Changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition; Changes in tax laws, rules or regulations, challenges to our tax positions and changes in the composition of our pre-tax earnings may increase our effective tax rate; We could face liabilities for withholding and other non-income taxes, including in connection with our services to clients, as a result of tax authority examinations; and Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. State Street Corporation | 5 Operational and Technology Risks Our internal control environment may be inadequate, fail or be circumvented, and actual results may differ from those expressed as a result of a number of factors, including the manifestation of operational risk as follows: Our business may be negatively affected by our failure to update and maintain our technology infrastructure, or otherwise meet the increasing resiliency expectations of our clients and regulators, or as a result of a cyber-attack or similar vulnerability in our or business partners' infrastructure; Our risk management framework, models and processes may not be effective in identifying or mitigating risk and reducing the potential for related losses, and a failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, or errors or delays in our operational and transaction processing, or those of third parties, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation; Shifting and maintaining operational activities to non-U.S. jurisdictions, changing our operating model and outsourcing to, or insourcing from, third parties may expose us to increased operational risk, geopolitical risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings or operational improvements; Attacks or unauthorized access to our or our business partners' or clients information technology systems or facilities, such as cyber-attacks or other disruptions to our or their operations, could result in significant costs, reputational damage and impacts on our business activities; Long-term contracts and customizing service delivery for clients expose us to increased operational risk, pricing and performance risk; We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or may infringe upon the rights of third parties; The quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and regulatory compliance; Our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if investors in the collective investment pools we sponsor or manage incur substantial losses in these investment pools or are restricted in redeeming their interests in these investment pools; Our efforts to improve our billing processes and practices are ongoing and may result in the identification of additional errors or areas for remediation; The impacts of climate change, and regulatory responses, and disclosure requirements related to such risks, could adversely affect us; and We may incur losses or face negative impacts on our business as a result of unforeseen events including terrorist attacks, natural disasters, climate change, pandemics, global conflicts, an abrupt banking crisis and other geopolitical events which may have a negative impact on our business and operations. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW State Street Corporation is one of the world s largest providers of financial services to institutional investors. We believe we are an essential partner to institutional investors and operate with the purpose of helping to create better outcomes for the world s investors and the people they serve. Our clients - asset managers and owners, insurance companies, official institutions, and central banks - rely on us to deliver solutions that support their goals across the investment life cycle. Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the United States, Canada, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. We provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide, with $41.81 trillion of AUC/A and $4.13 trillion of AUM as of December 31, 2023. We had consolidated total assets of $297.26 billion, consolidated total deposits of $220.97 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of $23.80 billion and approximately 46,000 employees as of December 31, 2023. State Street Corporation, referred to as the Parent Company, was organized in 1969 under the law s of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and is a financial holding company. We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960. State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust or custody State Street Corporation | 6 bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients. Our executive offices are located at One Congress Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114 (telephone (617) 786-3000). For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to State Street, we, us, our or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Parent Company is a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiaries. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION On the Filings reports tab of our website at investors.statestreet.com , we make available, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. Information on those websites (or any other) is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Examining and Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Human Resources Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Committee and the Technology and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is accessible on the Corporate governance tab of our website at investors.statestreet.com . We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities), the LCR and the NSFR, summary results of annual State Street-run stress tests that we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Act, and resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These additional disclosures are accessible on the Filings reports tab of our website at investors.statestreet.com . We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list and glossary under Item 8 in this Form 10-K. LINES OF BUSINESS Our operations are organized into two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management, which are defined based on products and services provided. Investment Servicing Our Investment Servicing line of business provides a range of services to our clients. Through State Street Investment Services, State Street Global Markets , State Street Alpha , and State Street Digital , we provide investment services for institutional clients, including mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, investment managers, foundations and endowments worldwide. Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe. As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate all of their global securities settlement needs, our primary role as a global trust and custody bank is to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments. Products under the Investment Servicing line of business include: back office products such as custody, accounting, regulatory reporting, investor services, performance and analytics; middle office products such as investment book of record, transaction management, loans, cash, derivatives and collateral services, record keeping, client reporting and investment analytics; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; performance, risk and compliance analytics; financial data management to support institutional investors; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance, including prime services products; and deposit and short-term investment facilities. We provide some or all of the Investment Servicing integrated products and services to clients in the United States and in many other markets, including, among others, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Cayman Islands, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, South Korea and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2023, we serviced AUC/A of approximately $29.95 trillion in the Americas, approximately $8.91 trillion in Europe and the Middle East and approximately $2.95 trillion in the Asia-Pacific region. Included within our Investment Servicing line of business is the Charles River Investment Management Solution, a technology offering which is designed to automate and simplify the institutional investment process across asset classes, from portfolio management and risk analytics through trading and post-trade settlement, with integrated compliance and managed data throughout. With the State Street Corporation | 7 acquisition of CRD in 2018, we took the first step in building our front-to-back platform, State Street Alpha. In 2021, we further expanded State Street Alpha's technology offering with the acquisition of Mercatus, Inc., enabling the launch of Alpha for Private Markets. In 2023, we enhanced State Street Alpha with the release of two notable upgrades to its fixed income management module. Today our State Street Alpha platform combines portfolio management, trading and execution, analytics and compliance tools, and advanced data aggregation and integration with other industry platforms and providers. In 2021, we established State Street Digital to focus on the development of services related to digital assets and related technologies, such as blockchain, tokenization, cryptocurrency, and central bank digital currency, including the evolution of a new integrated business and digital operating model designed to support primarily our institutional clients' digital investment cycle. Investment Management Our Investment Management line of business provides a broad range of investment management strategies and products for our clients through State Street Global Advisors. Our investment management strategies and products for equity, fixed income and cash assets, including core and enhanced indexing, multi-asset strategies, active quantitative and fundamental active capabilities and alternative investment strategies, span the risk/reward spectrum of these investment products. Our AUM is currently primarily weighted to indexed strategies. In addition, we provide a breadth of services and solutions, including ESG investing, defined benefit and defined contribution products, and Global Fiduciary Solutions. State Street Global Advisors is also a provider of ETFs, including the SPDR ETF brand. As of December 31, 2023, State Street Global Advisors had AUM of approximately $4.13 trillion. Additional information about our lines of business is provided under Line of Business Information included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Additional information about our non-U.S. activities is included in Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. COMPETITION We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of our business globally. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, investment analytics businesses, business service and software companies, technology companies, data providers and information services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business. Technological expertise, economies of scale, required levels of capital, pricing, quality and scope of services, and sales and marketing are critical to our Investment Servicing line of business. For our Investment Management line of business, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service, price, efficiency of our products and services, and performance. Our success and competitive position may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to implement efficiencies into our operational processes, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to integrate existing and future products and services effectively into State Street Alpha and State Street Digital, to continue to expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients. We are a G-SIB and are subject to extensive regulation and supervision with respect to our operations and activities. Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same limitations, requirements and standards with respect to their operations and activities. Most other financial institutions designated as systemically important have substantially greater financial resources and a broader base of operations than we do and are, consequently, in a better competitive position to manage and bear the costs of this enhanced regulatory requirement. See Supervision and Regulation in this Item for more information. State Street Corporation | 8 HUMAN CAPITAL Our human capital strategy is a meaningful driver of our overall enterprise strategy and our long-term performance. Our employees drive the company s value proposition, innovate better ways to serve our clients and act as custodians of our reputation. We seek to empower our employees by providing development and learning opportunities to help each person reach their full potential, by promoting an inclusive, diverse and equitable workplace and by improving organizational effectiveness. In 2023, we continued to execute on our human capital strategy, as described in the sections below. Our employee population at December 31, 2023 increased approximately 10% compared to December 31, 2022 to approximately 46,000 employees. This increase was almost entirely driven by the consolidation of one of our operations joint ventures in India in the fourth quarter of 2023, as described below in this Human Capital section. Approximately 74% of our employees are located outside the United States. The Board of Directors Human Resources Committee oversees our human capital management strategy, and receives regular updates on matters such as recruitment, retention, development, culture and inclusion, diversity and equity initiatives. Our Enterprise Talent Management Committee, which consists of senior executives, provides leadership, input and advice on our global talent-related initiatives to support our strategic priority to continually seek to become a higher-performing organization. Organizational Effectiveness Driving improvements in both individual and organizational productivity is a key enabler of our overall human capital management strategy, and we are focused on strategic workforce planning, building upon current headcount budgeting and forecasting activities. Our productivity efforts aim to promote the optimal cost and efficiency of our human capital through clear alignment between our business strategy and our organizational structure, headcount, personnel expense, geographic footprint, performance management, people development and reward systems. We focus 