ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of data storage technology and infrastructure solutions that enable enterprises and end users to confidently store and unlock the value of their data. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives ( SSDs ) and storage subsystems and offer storage solutions such as a scalable edge-to-cloud mass data platform that includes data transfer shuttles and a storage-as-a-service cloud. HDDs are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. HDDs continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high capacities, superior quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing HDD storage architectures, SSDs use NAND flash memory integrated circuit assemblies to store data. Our HDD products are designed for mass capacity storage and legacy markets. Mass capacity storage involves well-established use cases, such as hyperscale data centers and private and public clouds as well as emerging use cases. Legacy markets are those that we continue to sell to but we do not plan to invest in significantly. Our HDD and SSD product portfolio 3 Table of Contents includes Serial Advanced Technology Attachment ( SATA ), Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) and Non-Volatile Memory Express ( NVMe ) based designs to support a wide variety of mass capacity and legacy applications. Our systems portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers ( CSPs ), scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). Engineered for modularity, mobility, capacity and performance, these solutions include our enterprise HDDs and SSDs, enabling customers to integrate powerful, scalable storage within existing environments or create new ecosystems from the ground up in a secure, cost-effective manner. Our Lyve portfolio provides a simple, cost-efficient and secure way to manage massive volumes of data across the distributed enterprise. The Lyve platform includes a shuttle solution that enables enterprises to transfer massive amounts of data from endpoints to the core cloud and a storage-as-a-service cloud offering that provides frictionless mass capacity storage at the metro edge. In January 2024, the Company established Singapore as its principal executive offices to better align its operational footprint. Industry Overview Data Storage Industry The data storage industry includes companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for data storage devices, as well as providers of storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data, computing platforms and consumer markets. The rapid growth of data generation and the intelligent application of data are driving demand for data storage. As more data is created at endpoints outside traditional data centers, which requires processing at the edge and in the core or cloud, the need for data storage and management between the edge and cloud has also increased. Use cases include connected and autonomous vehicles, smart manufacturing and smart cities. We believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content, further enabled by fifth-generation wireless ( 5G ) technology, the edge, the Internet of Things ( IoT ), machine learning ( ML ) and generative artificial intelligence ( AI ), will continue to create demand for higher capacity storage solutions. The resulting mass data ecosystem is expected to require increasing amounts of data storage at the edge, in the core and in between. Markets The principal data storage markets include: Mass Capacity Storage Markets Mass capacity storage supports high capacity, low-cost per terabyte ( TB ) storage applications, including nearline, video and image applications ( VIA ) and network-attached storage ( NAS ) and edge-to-cloud data storage infrastructures. Nearline. Nearline applications require mass capacity devices and mass capacity subsystems that provide end-to-end solutions to businesses for the purpose of modular and scalable storage. Enterprise storage applications require both high-capacity and energy efficient storage devices to support low total cost of ownership. Seagate systems offer mass capacity storage solutions that provide foundational infrastructure for private and public clouds. The nearline market includes storage for cloud computing, content delivery, archival, backup services and emerging use cases such as generative AI. VIA and NAS. VIA and NAS drives are specifically designed to ensure the appropriate performance and reliability of the system for video analytics and camera enabled environments or network storage environments. These markets include storage for security and smart video installations. Edge-to-cloud data storage infrastructures, transport, and activation of mass data. The Seagate Lyve portfolio grew out of our mass capacity storage portfolio. It provides a simple, cost-efficient and secure way to manage, transport and activate massive volumes of data across the distributed enterprise. Among other elements, the Lyve portfolio includes a shuttle solution that enables enterprises to transfer vast amounts of data from endpoints to the core cloud and a storage-as-a-service cloud that provides frictionless mass capacity storage at the metro edge. Legacy Markets Legacy markets include consumer, client and mission critical applications. We continue to sell to these markets but do not plan significant additional investment. Consumer storage. Consumer applications are externally connected storage, both HDD and SSD-based, used to provide backup capabilities, augmented storage capacity, or portable storage for PCs, mobile devices and gaming consoles. 4 Table of Contents Client storage. Client applications include desktop and notebook storage that rely on low cost-per-HDD and SSD devices to provide built-in storage, digital video recorder ( DVR ) storage for video streaming in always-on consumer premise equipment and media center, and gaming storage for PC-based gaming systems as well as console gaming applications including both internal and external storage options. Mission critical storage. Mission critical applications are defined as those that use very high-performance enterprise class HDDs and SSDs with sophisticated firmware to reliably support very high workloads. We expect that enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks will continue to drive market demand for mission critical enterprise storage solutions. Participants in the data storage industry include: Major subcomponent manufacturers. Companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, and application specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ). Storage device manufacturers. Companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers that integrate flash memory into storage products such as SSDs. Storage solutions manufacturers and system integrators. Companies, such as Original Equipment Manufacturers ( OEMs ), that bundle and package storage solutions, distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications, CSPs that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of scale-out storage solutions and modular systems, and producers of solutions such as storage racks. Cloud and hyperscale data centers. Large cloud and hyperscale data center companies, many of which are CSPs, are increasingly designing their own storage subsystems and having them built by contract manufacturers for their own data centers. The leading hyperscale data center companies are also implementing advanced AI technologies to enhance their business growth. To support this AI-driven expansion, they are increasing the storage capacity of both AI-specific and traditional cloud infrastructure. Storage services. Companies that provide and host services and solutions, which include storage, backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of data. Demand for Data Storage In the Worldwide Global DataSphere Forecast, 2024-2028 , published by the International Data Corporation 1 ( IDC ), the global datasphere is forecasted to grow at a compound rate of more than 24% over the next five years to reach 394 zettabytes by 2028. According to IDC, we are in a new era of the Data Age, whereby data is shifting to both the core and the edge. It is expected that by 2028, nearly 76% of the world s data will be generated in the core and edge, up from 58% in 2023. Digital transformation has given rise to many new applications, all of which rely on faster access to and secure storage of data proliferating from endpoints through edge to cloud. Additionally, the proliferation of generative AI applications is expected to accelerate the creation of digital content such as text, images and video over the long-term. We expect these trends will have a positive impact on storage demand. As more applications require real-time decision making, some data processing and storage is moving closer to the network edge. We believe this will result in a buildup of private and edge cloud environments that will enable fast and secure access to data throughout the IoT ecosystem. Factors contributing to the growth of digital content include: Creation, sharing and consumption of media-rich content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition videos and digital music through smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, personal video cameras, DVRs, gaming consoles or other digital devices; Increasing use of video and imaging sensors to collect and analyze data used to improve traffic flow, emergency response times and manufacturing production costs, as well as for new security surveillance systems that feature higher resolution digital cameras and thus require larger data storage capacities; Creation and collection of data through the development and evolution of the IoT ecosystem, big data analytics, machine learning and new technology trends such as autonomous vehicles and drones, smart manufacturing, and smart cities, as well as emerging trends including generative AI content growth or applications that converge the digital and physical worlds such as the metaverse or use of digital twins; 1 Worldwide IDC Global DataSphere Forecast, 2024 2028: AI Everywhere, But Upsurge in Data Will Take Time, Doc #US52076424, May 2024. 5 Table of Contents The growing use of analytics, especially for action on data created at the edge instead of processing and analyzing at the data center, which is particularly important for verticals such as autonomous vehicles, property monitoring systems, and smart manufacturing; Cloud migration initiatives and the ongoing advancement of the cloud, including the build out of large numbers of cloud data centers by CSPs and private companies transitioning on-site data centers into the cloud; and Need for protection of increased digital content through redundant storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. As a result of these factors, we anticipate that the nature and volume of data being created will require greater storage capability, which is more efficiently and economically facilitated by higher capacity mass storage solutions. In addition, the economics of storage infrastructure are also evolving. The utilization of private and public cloud storage and open-source solutions is reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage devices. Accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for data storage products and solutions going forward. Demand Trends We believe that continued growth in digital content creation will require increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, protect, back up and use such content. We also believe that as architectures evolve to serve a growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, storage solutions will evolve as well. Mass capacity is and will continue to be the enabler of scale. We expect increased data creation will lead to the expansion of the need for storage in the form of HDDs, SSDs and systems. While the advance of solid state technology in many end markets is expected to increase, we believe that in the foreseeable future, cloud, edge and traditional enterprise that require high-capacity storage solutions will be best served by HDDs due to their ability to deliver reliable, scalable, energy-efficient and the most cost-effective mass storage devices. We also believe that as HDD capacities continue to increase, a focus exclusively on unit demand does not reflect the increase in demand for exabytes. As demand for higher capacity drives increases, the demand profile has shifted to reflect fewer total HDD units, but with higher average capacity per drive and higher overall exabyte demand. Industry Supply Balance From time to time, the storage industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. To the extent that the storage industry builds or maintains capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. Conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, we usually have better pricing power and price erosion is generally muted. As production lead-times for our latest generation of high-capacity HDDs have extended, we began to require longer term demand forecasts and commitments from customers to improve supply predictability and create greater alignment between supply and demand. Our Business Data Storage Technologies The design and manufacturing of HDDs depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques. Therefore, it requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. We design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. Our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. Our core technology platforms focus on the areal density of media and read/write head technologies, including the Mozaic platform, which is our implementation of the high-capacity enabling heat-assisted magnetic recording ( HAMR ) technology as well as innovations like shingled-magnetic-recording ("SMR") technology, and the throughput-optimizing multi actuator MACH.2 technology. This design and manufacturing approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of storage products to service a wide range of data storage applications and industries. Disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: input/output operations per second ( IOPS ), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; storage capacity, commonly expressed in TB, which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; areal density, which is a measurement of the storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk; 6 Table of Contents spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute ( RPM ), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output such as energy per TB necessary to operate the disk drive. The total storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the size and number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. We also offer SSDs as part of our storage solutions portfolio. Our portfolio includes devices with SATA, SAS and NVMe interfaces. The SSDs differ from HDDs in that they are without mechanical parts. SSDs store data on NAND flash memory cells, or metal-oxide semiconductor transistors using a charge on a capacitor to represent a binary digit. SSD technology offers fast access to data and robust performance. SSDs complement hyperscale applications, high-density data centers, cloud environments and web servers. They are also used in mission-critical enterprise applications, consumer, gaming and NAS applications. Manufacturing We primarily design and manufacture our own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. This integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities to leverage the close interdependence of components for disk drives. Our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing costs by: employing manufacturing automation; employing machine learning algorithms and AI; improving product quality and reliability; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and operating our facilities at optimal capacities. A vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand declines as it exposes us to higher unit costs when capacity utilization is not optimized which would lead to factory underutilization charges as we experienced in fiscal years 2024 and 2023. Components and Raw Materials Disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination-controlled environment. We maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as read/write heads and recording media. 7 Table of Contents Read/Write Heads. The function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. The tolerances of read/write heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. Our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges related to magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. We perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. Media. Data is written to or read from the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. The media is made from non-magnetic substrates, usually an aluminum alloy or glass and is coated with thin layers of magnetic materials. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. We purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties. Printed Circuit Board Assemblies. The printed circuit board assemblies ( PCBAs ) are comprised of standard and custom ASICs and ancillary electronic control chips. The ASICs control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. The ASICs and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. Disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as SATA, SCSI, or SAS to communicate to the host systems. Head Disk Assembly. The head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface, and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on an E-shaped assembly ( E-block ) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. The E-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. We purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. Disk Drive Assembly. Following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the PCBA, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and machine learning prior to packaging and shipment. Disk drive assembly and machine learning operations occur primarily at our facilities located in China and Thailand. We perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand and the United States. Contract Manufacturing. We outsource the manufacturing and assembly of certain components and products to third parties in various countries worldwide. This includes outsourcing the PCBAs used in our disk drives, SSDs and storage subsystems. We continue to participate in the design of our components and products, and we are directly involved in qualifying key suppliers and components used in our products. Suppliers of Components and Industry Constraints. There are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. From time to time, we may enter into long-term supply arrangements with these independent suppliers. Vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers like us, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. However, certain parts of our business have been adversely affected by our suppliers capacity constraints and this could occur again in the future. Commodity and Other Manufacturing Costs. The production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in price and the supply of which has at times been constrained. In addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel and other transportation costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. As a result, we may increase our use of alternative shipment methods to help offset any increase in freight costs, and we will continually review various forms of shipments and routes in order to minimize the exposure to higher freight costs. Products We offer a broad range of storage solutions for mass capacity storage and legacy applications. We differentiate products on the basis of capacity, performance, product quality, reliability, price, form factor, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features and other customer integration requirements. Our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology that contribute to rapid product life cycles. Currently our product offerings include: 8 Table of Contents Mass Capacity Storage Enterprise Nearline HDDs. Our high-capacity enterprise HDDs, including HAMR-based Mozaic drives, ship in capacities of up to 32TB. These products are designed for mass capacity data storage in the core and at the edge, as well as server environments and cloud systems that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and integrated security. They are available in SATA and SAS interfaces. Additionally, certain customers can utilize many of our HDDs with SMR technology enabled which increases the available storage capacity of the drive with certain performance trade-offs. Enterprise SSDs. Our enterprise SSDs are designed for high-performance, hyperscale, high-density and cloud applications. They are offered with multiple interfaces, including SAS, SATA, and NVMe and in capacities up to 15TB. Enterprise Nearline Systems. Our systems portfolio provides modular storage arrays, storage server platforms, multi-level configuration for disks (commonly referred as JBODs) and expansion shelves to expand and upgrade data center storage infrastructure and other enterprise applications. They feature speed, scalability and security. Our capacity-optimized systems feature multiple scalable configurations and can accommodate up to 96 26TB dri ves per chassis. We offer capacity and performance-optimized systems that include all-flash, all-disk and hybrid arrays for workloads demanding high performance, capacity and efficiency. VIA. Our video and image HDDs are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video systems. These optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the video imaging market with support for multiple streams and capacities up to 30TB. NAS. Our NAS drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by small and medium businesses, and incorporate interface software with custom-built health management, error recovery controls, power settings and vibration tolerance. Our NAS HDD solutions are available in capacities up to 24TB. We also offer NAS SSDs with capacities up to 4TB. Legacy Applications Mission Critical HDDs and SSDs. Although we have stopped offering 15,000 RPM HDDs, we continue to support 10,000 RPM HDDs, offered in capacities up to 2.4TB, which enable increased throughput while improving energy efficiency. Our enterprise SSDs are available in capacities up to 15TB, with endurance options up to 10 drive writes per day and various interfaces. Our SSDs deliver the speed and consistency required for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. Consumer Solutions. Our external storage solutions with capacities up to 24TB are shipped, under the Seagate Ultra Touch, One Touch, Expansion and Basics product lines, as well as under the LaCie brand name. We strive to deliver the best customer experience by leveraging our core technologies, offering services such as Seagate Recovery Services (data recovery) and partnering with leading brands such as Microsoft s Xbox, Sony s PlayStation and Disney s Star Wars and Marvel. Client Applications. Our 3.5-inch desktop drives offer up to 8TB of capacity, designed for personal computers and workstation applications and our 2.5-inch notebook drives offer up to 5TB for HDD and up to 2TB for SSD designed for applications such as traditional notebooks, convertible systems and external storage to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high-capacity storage. Our DVR HDDs are optimized for video streaming in always-on consumer premise equipment applications with capacities up to 8TB. Our gaming SSDs are specifically optimized internal storage for gaming rigs and are designed to enhance the gaming experience during game load and game play with capacities up to 4TB for SSD. Lyve Edge-to-Cloud Mass Capacity Platform Lyve. Lyve is our as-a-service platform built with mass data in mind. These solutions, including modular hardware and software delivered in a consumption-based model, support enterprises on-premise and cloud storage infrastructure needs. Customers We sell our products to major OEMs, distributors and retailers. OEM customers, including large hyperscale data center companies and CSPs, typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. Historically, customers could defer or cancel most purchase orders without significant penalty. However, during fiscal year 2024, as production lead-times extended for our latest generation of high-capacity hard disk drives, we began to require longer term demand forecasts and commitments, with potential cancellation charges across key global OEM customers which was necessary to improve supply predictability and align supply with customer demand requirements. While not entirely eliminating order deferments or cancellations from our key OEM customers, we expect these changes will dampen demand volatility over time. 9 Table of Contents Our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. They typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. The agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited rights of return and price protection. In add