Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments NA Item 1C. Cybersecurity 30 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures NA PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. [Reserved] NA Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure NA Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 111 Item 9B. Other Information 111 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections NA PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 112 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 113 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 113 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 114 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 114 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 115 SIGNATURES 120 Market positions and industry data discussed in this Form 10-K are as of calendar 2023 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and our estimates. The industry and government publications include: Beer Marketers Insights; Beverage Information Group; Impact Databank Review and Forecast; International Wine and Spirits Research (IWSR); Circana; Beer Institute; and National Alcohol Beverage Control Association. We have not independently verified the data from the industry and government publications. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on U.S. dollar sales. Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements, including without limitation: The statements under Item 1. Business and Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding: our mission, core values, business strategy, strategic vision, growth plans, innovation and Digital Business Acceleration initiatives, NPDs, future operations, financial position, net sales, expenses, hedging programs, cost savings initiatives, capital expenditures, effective tax rates and anticipated tax liabilities, expected volume, inventory, supply and demand levels, balance, and trends, long-term financial model, access to capital markets, liquidity and capital resources, and prospects, plans, and objectives of management; our beer expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities, including anticipated scope, capacity, costs, capital expenditures, and timeframes for completion; the potential sale of the remaining assets at the Mexicali Brewery; the anticipated availability of water, agricultural and other raw materials, and packaging materials; our ESG strategy, sustainability initiatives, environmental stewardship targets, and human capital and DEI objectives and ambitions; anticipated inflationary pressures, changing prices, and reductions in consumer discretionary income as well as other unfavorable global and regional economic conditions, and geopolitical events, and our responses thereto; the potential impact to supply, production levels, and costs due to global supply chain disruptions and constraints, and shifting consumer behaviors; expected or potential actions of third parties, including possible changes to laws, rules, and regulations; the potential impact of climate-related severe weather events; unfavorable trends in the wine market and for certain of our wine and spirits brands, the expected timeframes for improvement of such trends, and our associated actions to improve marketing execution and sales performance; the availability of a supply chain finance program; the manner, timing, and duration of the share repurchase program and source of funds for share repurchases; the amount and timing of future dividends; and our target net leverage ratio. The statements regarding the impacts of recent accounting pronouncements; The statements regarding our future accounting treatment for our investment in Canopy, including the expected gain related to the conversion of our Canopy common shares into Exchangeable Shares and exchange of the 2023 Canopy Promissory Note for Exchangeable Shares; and The statements regarding the future reclassification of net gains from AOCI. When used in this Form 10-K, the words anticipate, expect, intend, will, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and markets in which we Constellation Brands, Inc. FY 2024 Form 10-K #WORTHREACHINGFOR I i Table of Contents compete, our forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are also subject to the risk, uncertainty, and possible variance from our current expectations regarding: water, agricultural and other raw material, and packaging material supply, production, and/or shipment difficulties which could adversely affect our ability to supply our customers; the ability to respond to anticipated inflationary pressures, including reductions in consumer discretionary income and our ability to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices; the actual impact to supply, production levels, and costs from global supply chain disruptions and constraints, transportation challenges (including from labor strikes or other labor activities), shifting consumer behaviors, wildfires, and severe weather events; reliance on complex information systems and third party global networks as well as risks associated with cybersecurity and AI; economic and other uncertainties associated with our international operations; dependence on limited facilities for production of our Mexican beer brands, including beer operations expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities, scope, capacity, supply, costs (including impairments), capital expenditures, and timing; results of the potential sale of the remaining assets at the Mexicali Brewery or obtaining other forms of recovery; operational disruptions or catastrophic loss to our breweries, wineries, other production facilities, or distribution systems; the impact of the military conflicts, geopolitical tensions, and responses, including on inflation, supply chains, commodities, energy, and cybersecurity; climate change, ESG regulatory compliance and failure to meet emissions, stewardship, and other ESG targets, objectives, or ambitions; reliance on wholesale distributors, major retailers, and government agencies; contamination and degradation of product quality from diseases, pests, weather, and other conditions; communicable disease outbreaks, pandemics, or other widespread public health crises and associated governmental containment actions; effects of employee labor activities that could increase our costs; a potential decline in the consumption of products we sell and our dependence on sales of our Mexican beer brands; impacts of our acquisition, divestiture, investment, and NPD strategies and activities; dependence upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, including the failure to protect our intellectual property rights; potential damage to our reputation; competition in our industry and for talent; our indebtedness and interest rate fluctuations; our international operations, worldwide and regional economic trends and financial market conditions, geopolitical uncertainty, or other governmental rules and regulations; class action or other litigation we may face; potential write-downs of our intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks; changes to tax laws, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, accounting for tax positions, the resolution of tax disputes, changes to accounting standards, elections, assertions, or policies, and the impact of a global minimum tax rate; the amount, timing, and source of funds for any share repurchases; the amount and timing of future dividends; and ownership of our Class A Stock by the Sands Family Stockholders and their Board of Director nomination rights as well as the choice-of-forum provision in our Amended and Restated By-laws. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by our forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are those described in