Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments NA Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures NA PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. [Reserved] NA Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure NA Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 117 Item 9B. Other Information NA Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections NA PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 118 Item 11. Executive Compensation 118 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 118 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 119 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 119 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 120 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 120 SIGNATURES 127 Table of Contents This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements, including without limitation: The statements under Item 1. Business and Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding: our business strategy, future operations, innovation strategy and new products, future financial position, future net sales and expected volume and inventory trends, future marketing spend, future effective tax rates and anticipated tax liabilities, prospects, plans, and objectives of management; the anticipated availability of water, agricultural and other raw materials, and packaging materials; the COVID-19 pandemic; our ESG strategy, sustainability initiatives, environmental stewardship targets, and human capital and DEI objectives and goals; the potential impact to supply, production levels, and costs due to global supply chain logistics and transportation; expected or potential actions of third parties, including possible changes to laws, rules, and regulations; anticipated inflationary pressures and our responses thereto; expected purchase accounting allocations; the future expected balance of supply and demand for and inventory levels of our products; the refinement of our wine and spirits portfolio; the Wine and Spirits Divestitures, including potential amounts of contingent consideration; the manner, timing, and duration of the share repurchase program and source of funds for share repurchases; and the amount and timing of future dividends. The statements regarding our beer expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities, including anticipated scope, capacity, costs, capital expenditures, timeframes for completion, discussions with government officials in Mexico, and potential future impairment of non-recoverable brewery construction assets and other costs and expenses. The statements regarding: the volatility of the fair value of our investment in Canopy measured at fair value; our activities surrounding our investment in Canopy; Canopy s expectations and the transaction with Acreage; the timing and source of funds for operating activities and exercises of the November 2018 Canopy Warrants, if any; a potential future impairment of our Canopy Equity Method Investment; and our future ownership level in Canopy and our future share of Canopy s reported earnings and losses. The statements regarding our targeted net leverage ratio. The statements regarding the future reclassification of net gains from AOCI. The statements regarding the impact of any potential common stock declassification, including in connection with the Proposal. Constellation Brands, Inc. FY 2022 Form 10-K #WORTHREACHINGFOR I i Table of Contents When used in this Form 10-K, the words anticipate, intend, expect, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and markets in which we compete, our forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are also subject to the risk, uncertainty, and possible variance from our current expectations regarding: water, agricultural and other raw material, and packaging material supply, production, and/or shipment difficulties which could adversely affect our ability to supply our customers; the ability to respond to anticipated inflationary pressures, including reductions in consumer discretionary income and our ability to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices; the actual impact to supply, production levels, and costs from global supply chain logistics, transportation challenges, wildfires, and severe weather events, due to, among other reasons, actual supply chain and transportation performance and the actual severity and geographical reach of wildfires and severe weather events; the actual balance of supply and demand for our products and percentage of our portfolio distributed through any particular distributor due to, among other reasons, actual raw material and water supply, actual shipments to distributors, and actual consumer demand; the actual demand, net sales, channel proportions, and volume trends for our products due to, among other reasons, actual shipments to distributors and actual consumer demand; beer operations expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities, scope, capacity, costs (including impairments), capital expenditures, and timing due to, among other reasons, market conditions, our cash and debt position, receipt of required regulatory approvals by the expected dates and on the expected terms, results of discussions with government officials in Mexico, the actual amount of non-recoverable brewery construction assets and other costs and expenses, and other factors as determined by management; the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to the impact and severity of new variants, vaccine efficacy and immunization rates, the closure of non-essential businesses, which may include our manufacturing facilities, and other associated governmental containment actions, and the increase in cyber-security attacks that have occurred while non-production employees work remotely; the impact of the military conflict in Ukraine and associated geopolitical tensions and responses, including on inflation, supply chains, commodities, energy, and cyber-security; the amount, timing, and source of funds for any share repurchases or future exercises of the November 2018 Canopy Warrants, if any, which may vary due to market conditions; our cash and debt position; the impact of the beer operations expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities; the impact of our investment in Canopy; and other factors as determined by management from time to time; the amount and timing of future dividends which are subject to the determination and discretion of our Board of Directors and may be impacted if our ability to use cash flow to fund dividends is affected by unanticipated increases in total net debt, we are unable to generate cash flow at anticipated levels, or we fail to generate expected earnings; the fair value of our investment in Canopy due to market and economic conditions in Canopy s markets and business locations; the accuracy of management s projections relating to the Canopy investment due to Canopy s actual results and market and economic conditions; the timeframe and amount of any potential future impairment of our Canopy Equity Method Investment if our expectations about Canopy s prospective results and cash flows decline which could be influenced by various factors including adverse market conditions or if Canopy records a significant impairment of goodwill or intangible assets or other long-lived assets, makes significant asset sales, or has changes in senior management; the amount of contingent consideration, if any, received in the Wine and Spirits Divestitures which will depend on actual future brand performance; Constellation Brands, Inc. FY 2022 Form 10-K #WORTHREACHINGFOR I ii Table of Contents the expected impacts of wine and spirits portfolio refinement activities; purchase accounting with respect to any transaction, or the assumptions used regarding the assets purchased and liabilities assumed to determine their fair value; any impact of U.S. federal laws on Canopy Strategic Transactions or upon the implementation of such Canopy Strategic Transactions, or the impact of any Canopy Strategic Transaction upon our future ownership level in Canopy or our future share of Canopy s reported earnings and losses; whether a definitive agreement in relation to the Proposal will be entered into, what the ultimate terms of any such agreement may be, whether the required stockholder approval would be obtained, and the impact of any such transaction on our shares outstanding and associated financial metrics; and our targeted net leverage ratio due to market conditions, our ability to generate cash flow at expected levels, and our ability to generate expected earnings. Additional important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by our forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are those described in