Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments NA Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures NA PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure NA Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 122 Item 9B. Other Information NA PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 122 Item 11. Executive Compensation 123 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 123 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 124 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 124 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 125 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 125 SIGNATURES 133 NA = Not Applicable Table of Contents This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements, including without limitation: The statements regarding the current global COVID-19 pandemic. The statements under Item 1. Business and Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding: our business strategy, future operations, future financial position, future net sales and expected volume trends, expected effective tax rates and anticipated tax liabilities, prospects, plans, and objectives of management; information concerning expected or potential actions of third parties, including potential changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes, and other governmental rules and regulations; information concerning the future expected balance of supply and demand for our products; timing and source of funds for operating activities and Canopy warrant exercises, if any; the manner, timing, and duration of the share repurchase program and source of funds for share repurchases; and the amount and timing of future dividends. The statements regarding our beer expansion, construction, and optimization activities, including anticipated costs and timeframes for completion. The statements regarding: the volatility of the fair value of our investments in Canopy measured at fair value; our activities surrounding our investments in Canopy; the time to return to our targeted leverage ratio; the New November 2018 Canopy Warrants; and our future ownership level in Canopy and our future share of Canopy s reported earnings and losses. The statements regarding the New Wine and Spirits Transactions and the Other Wine and Spirits Transactions, including expected form and amount of consideration, amount and use of expected proceeds, estimated remaining costs, and any expected restructuring charge. The statements regarding Canopy s transaction with Acreage. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words anticipate, intend, expect, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and markets in which we compete, our forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are also subject to the risk and uncertainty that: the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to the closure of non-essential businesses, which may include our manufacturing facilities, and other associated governmental containment actions, may vary from our current expectations; the actual balance of supply and demand for our products will vary from current expectations due to, among other reasons, actual raw material supply, actual shipments to distributors, and actual consumer demand; the actual demand, net sales, and volume trends for our products will vary from current expectations due to, among other reasons, actual shipments to distributors, and actual consumer demand; the amount, timing, and source of funds for any share repurchases or Canopy warrant exercises, if any, may vary due to market conditions; our cash and debt position; the impact of the beer Table of Contents operations expansion activities; the impact of our investments in Canopy; any future exercise of Canopy warrants; the expected impacts of the New Wine and Spirits Transactions, and the Other Wine and Spirits Transactions; and other factors as determined by management from time to time; the amount and timing of future dividends may differ from our current expectations if our ability to use cash flow to fund dividends is affected by unanticipated increases in total net debt, we are unable to generate cash flow at anticipated levels, or we fail to generate expected earnings; the fair value of our investments in Canopy may vary due to market and economic conditions in Canopy s markets and business locations; accuracy of management s projections relating to the Canopy investment may vary from management s current expectations due to Canopy s actual results of operations and market and economic conditions; the timeframe and actual costs associated with the beer operations expansion activities may vary from management s current expectations due to market conditions, our cash and debt position, receipt of required regulatory approvals by the expected dates and on the expected terms, and other factors as determined by management; any consummation of the New Wine and Spirits Transactions, or the Other Wine and Spirits Transactions, and any actual date of consummation of any of them may vary from our current expectations; the actual restructuring charge, if any, will vary based on management s final plans; the amount of additional loss, if any, on the future write-down of assets held for sale will vary based on the form of consideration, amount of consideration actually received, and future brand performance; any impact of U.S. federal laws on the transaction between Acreage and Canopy or upon the implementation of that transaction, or the impact of the Acreage Transaction upon our future ownership level in Canopy or our future share of Canopy s reported earnings and losses, may vary from management s current expectations; and the time to return to our targeted leverage ratio may vary from management s current expectations due to market conditions, our ability to generate cash flow at expected levels and our ability to generate expected earnings. The New Wine and Spirits Transactions are subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory clearances and governmental approvals. The Nobilo Transaction is also conditioned on completion of the Revised Wine and Spirits Transaction. Additional important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by our forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are those described in