ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 24 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 24 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 24 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 25 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 26 ITEM 6. REMOVED AND RESERVED 28 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 28 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 51 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 51 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 51 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 52 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 53 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT 54 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 56 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 56 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 58 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 58 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 58 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 60 SIGNATURES 61 EX-10.17(e) EX-21 EX-23 EX-24 EX-31.1(a) EX-31.1(b) EX-32.1 EX-32.2 2 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Stanley Black Decker, Inc. ("the Company") was founded in 1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and incorporated in Connecticut in 1852. In March 2010, the Company completed a merger ("the Merger") with The Black Decker Corporation ( Black Decker ), a company founded by S. Duncan Black and Alonzo G. Decker and incorporated in Maryland in 1910. At that time, the Company changed its name from The Stanley Works to Stanley Black Decker, Inc. The Company s principal executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is (860) 225-5111. The Company is a diversified global provider of hand tools, power tools, outdoor products and related accessories, engineered fastening systems and products, services and equipment for oil gas and infrastructure applications, and automatic doors, with 2021 consolidated annual revenues of $15.6 billion. Approximately 60% of the Company s 2021 revenues were generated in the United States, with the remainder largely from Europe (17%), emerging markets (14%) and Canada (5%). The Company continues to execute a growth and acquisition strategy that involves industry, geographic and customer diversification to foster sustainable revenue, earnings and cash flow growth. The Company remains focused on delivering above-market organic growth with margin expansion by leveraging its proven and long-standing Stanley Black Decker Operating Model ( SBD Operating Model ) which has continually evolved over the past 15 years as times have changed. At the center of the SBD Operating Model is the concept of the interrelationship between people and technology, which intersect and interact with the other key elements: Performance Resiliency, Extreme Innovation, Operations Excellence and Extraordinary Customer Experience. Each of these elements co-exists synergistically with the others in a systems-based approach. The Company will leverage the SBD Operating Model to continue making strides towards achieving its vision of delivering top-quartile financial performance, becoming known as one of the world s leading innovators and elevating its commitment to social responsibility. The above strategy has also resulted in approximately $13.5 billion of acquisitions since 2002 (excluding the Merger), which was enabled by strong cash flow generation and increased debt capacity. In recent years, the Company completed the acquisitions of the remaining 80 percent ownership stake of MTD Holdings Inc. ("MTD") for approximately $1.5 billion, Excel Industries ("Excel") for approximately $374 million, Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing, LLC ("CAM") for approximately $1.4 billion, and International Equipment Solutions Attachments Group ("IES Attachments") for approximately $654 million. The MTD acquisition expands the Company's presence in the $25 billion and growing outdoor category, with strong brands and growth opportunities. Excel is a strategically important bolt-on acquisition that bolsters the presence in the independent dealer network. The CAM acquisition further diversified the Company's presence in the industrial markets and expanded its portfolio of specialty fasteners in the aerospace and defense markets. The IES Attachments acquisition further diversified the Company's presence in the industrial markets, expanded its portfolio of attachment solutions and provided a meaningful platform for continued growth. Furthermore, in December 2021, the Company announced that it had reached a definitive agreement for the sale of most of its Security assets to Securitas AB for $3.2 billion in cash. The proposed transaction includes the Company's Convergent Security Solutions ("CSS") business comprising of commercial electronic security and healthcare businesses. The transaction does not include the Company's automatic doors business. The sale is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in the first half of 2022. Net proceeds from the sale are expected to be used to fund, in part, an approximately $4 billion share repurchase which is planned to be completed in 2022. The use of net proceeds towards a planned share repurchase program is consistent with the Company's long-term capital allocation strategy focused on value maximization. In May 2019, the Company sold its Sargent and Greenleaf mechanical locks business for net proceeds of $79 million. The Company has also divested several smaller businesses in recent years that did not fit into its long-term strategic objectives. These divestitures allowed the Company to invest in other areas of the Company that fit into its long-term growth strategy. Refer to Note E, Acquisitions and Investments, and Note T, Divestitures , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion. The Company s growth and acquisition strategy is interdependent with its social responsibility strategy focused on workforce upskilling, product innovation, and environmental preservation including mitigating the impacts of climate change. These are core business issues that ensure the long-term viability of the Company, its customers, suppliers, and communities. The Company has established environmental, social and corporate governance ("ESG") targets embodied in its 2030 ESG strategy that include empowering 10 million makers and creators, enhancing 500 million lives through purpose-driven product 3 innovation, becoming carbon-neutral, landfill-free across its operations, and reducing water use in water stressed and scarce areas. The carbon neutrality target includes third-party approved science-based targets to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by greater than 100% by 2030, and to reduce supply chain emissions by 35%. The Company s ESG strategy considers all life-cycle stages including material procurement from supply chain partners, product design, manufacturing, distribution and transportation, product use, product service and end-of-life. Refer to section "Human Capital Management" for additional information regarding the Company's commitment to upskilling its employees and improving diversity, equity and inclusion. Description of the Business The Company s operations are classified into two reportable business segments: Tools Storage and Industrial. The Company has one non-reportable business operating segment, Mechanical Access Solutions ("MAS"). All reportable segments have significant international operations and are exposed to translational and transactional impacts from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional information regarding the Company s business segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned Business Segment Results in Item 7 and Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 . Tools Storage The Tools Storage segment is comprised of the Power Tools Group ("PTG"), Hand Tools, Accessories Storage ("HTAS"), and Outdoor Power Equipment ("Outdoor") businesses. Annual revenues in the Tools Storage segment were $12.8 billion in 2021, representing 82% of the Company s total revenues. The PTG business includes both professional and consumer products. Professional products include professional grade corded and cordless electric power tools and equipment including drills, impact wrenches and drivers, grinders, saws, routers and sanders, as well as pneumatic tools and fasteners including nail guns, nails, staplers and staples, concrete and masonry anchors. Consumer products include corded and cordless electric power tools sold primarily under the BLACK+DECKER brand, and home products such as hand-held vacuums, paint tools and cleaning appliances. The HTAS business sells hand tools, power tool accessories and storage products. Hand tools include measuring, leveling and layout tools, planes, hammers, demolition tools, clamps, vises, knives, saws, chisels and industrial and automotive tools. Power tool accessories include drill bits, screwdriver bits, router bits, abrasives, saw blades and threading products. Storage products include tool boxes, sawhorses, medical cabinets and engineered storage solution products. The Outdoor business primarily sells corded and cordless electric lawn and garden products, including hedge trimmers, string trimmers, lawn mowers, pressure washers and related accessories, and gas powered lawn and garden products, including lawn tractors, zero turn ride on mowers, walk behind mowers, snow blowers, residential robotic mowers, utility terrain vehicles (UTVs), handheld outdoor power equipment, garden tools, and parts and accessories to professionals and consumers under the DEWALT , CUB CADET , BLACK+DECKER , CRAFTSMAN , TROY-BILT , and HUSTLER brand names. The segment sells its products to professional end users, distributors, independent dealers, retail consumers and industrial customers in a wide variety of industries and geographies. The majority of sales are distributed through retailers, including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards, as well as third-party distributors, independent dealers, and a direct sales force. Industrial The Industrial segment is comprised of the Engineered Fastening and Infrastructure businesses. Annual revenues in the Industrial segment were $2.5 billion in 2021, representing 16% of the Company s total revenues. The Engineered Fastening business primarily sells highly engineered components such as fasteners, fittings and various engineered products, which are designed for specific application across multiple verticals. The product lines include externally threaded fasteners, blind rivets and tools, blind inserts and tools, drawn arc weld studs and systems, engineered plastic and mechanical fasteners, self-piercing riveting systems, precision nut running systems, micro fasteners, high-strength structural fasteners, axel swage, latches, heat shields, pins, and couplings. The business sells to customers in the automotive, manufacturing, electronics, construction, and aerospace industries, amongst others, and its products are distributed through direct sales forces and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors. The Infrastructure business consists of the Attachment Tools and Oil Gas product lines. Attachment Tools sells hydraulic tools and high quality, performance-driven heavy equipment attachment tools for off-highway applications. Oil Gas sells and 4 rents custom pipe handling, joint welding and coating equipment used in the construction of large and small diameter pipelines, and provides pipeline inspection services. The Infrastructure business sells to the oil and natural gas pipeline industry and other industrial customers. The products and services are primarily distributed through a direct sales force and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors. Mechanical Access Solutions Annual revenues for the MAS segment were $0.3 billion in 2021, representing 2% of the Company s total revenues. The MAS business primarily sells automatic doors to commercial customers. Products are sold predominantly on a direct sales basis. Other Information Competition The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service, its strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines, its innovative products and customer value propositions. The Company encounters active competition in the Tools Storage and Industrial segments from both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services. Certain large customers offer private label brands ( house brands ) that compete across a wide spectrum of the Company s Tools Storage segment product offerings. Major Customers A significant portion of the Company s Tools Storage products are sold to home centers and mass merchants in the U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has occurred over time. While this consolidation and the domestic and international expansion of these large retailers have provided the Company with opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. Lowe's accounted for approximately 15%, 17% and 17% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, while The Home Depot accounted for approximately 15%, 14% and 12% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. No other customer exceeded 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2021, 2020 or 2019. Working Capital The Company continues to practice the five operating principles encompassed by Operations Excellence, one element of the SBD Operating Model, which work in concert: sales and operations planning, operational lean, complexity reduction, global supply management, order-to-cash excellence, the application of Industry 4.0 and upskilling the Company's workforce. The Company develops standardized business processes and system platforms to reduce costs and provide scalability. Working capital turns were 5.1 at the end of 2021, down 6.0 turns from 2020, due to inventory investments to support the sustained strong demand outlook and longer lead times related to the challenged global supply chain which has substantially increased inventory in transit. The Company plans to continue leveraging Operations Excellence to generate ongoing improvements, both in the existing business and future acquisitions, in working capital turns, cycle times, complexity reduction and customer service levels, with a long-term goal of delivering 10+ working capital turns. Raw Materials The Company s products are manufactured using resins, ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel. The Company also purchases components such as batteries, motors, engines, transmissions, and electronic components to use in manufacturing and assembly operations along with resin-based molded parts. The raw materials required are procured globally and generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. As part of the Company's Enterprise Risk Management, the Company has implemented a supplier risk mitigation strategy in order to identify and address any potential supply disruption or material scarcity issues associated with commodities, components, finished goods and critical services. Similar to other industries, the Company is experiencing supply chain constraints in semiconductors that is limiting its ability to fully serve its customer demand, however the Company has taken steps in 2021 to add supply and the Company's supply chain outlook for these electronic components continues to improve. The Company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials or energy used in its production processes. Patents and Trademarks No business segment is solely dependent, to any significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions, and the loss of one or several of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material adverse effect on any of the Company's businesses. The Company owns numerous patents, none of which individually is material to the Company's 5 operations as a whole. These patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds licenses, franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the Company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and concessions vary in duration, but generally run from one to 40 years. The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its businesses worldwide. In the Tools Storage segment, significant trademarks include STANLEY , BLACK+DECKER , DEWALT , FLEXVOLT , IRWIN , LENOX , CRAFTSMAN , PORTER-CABLE , BOSTITCH , FATMAX , Powers , Guaranteed Tough , MAC TOOLS , PROTO , Vidmar , FACOM , Expert , LISTA , MTD , CUB CADET , TROY-BILT , HUSTLER , and the yellow black color scheme for power tools and accessories. Significant trademarks in the Industrial segment include STANLEY , CRC , NELSON , LaBounty , Dubuis , CribMaster , POP , Avdel , Heli-Coil , Tucker , NPR , Spiralock , PALADIN , CAM , Bristol Industries , Voss , Aerofit , EA Patten , Integra , Optia , PENGO and STANLEY Assembly Technologies. The MAS segment includes significant trademarks such as STANLEY and Stanley Access Technologies . The terms of these trademarks typically vary from 10 to 20 years, with most trademarks being renewable indefinitely for like terms. Governmental Regulations The Company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, both within and outside the U.S., in areas such as environmental protection, international trade, data privacy, tax, consumer protection, government contracts, climate change and others. The Company is subject to import and export controls, tariffs, and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in the countries in which it has operations or otherwise does business. These controls, tariffs, regulations, and restrictions have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on the Company's business, including its ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components. Refer to