ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 8 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 19 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 20 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 20 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 20 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 21 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 23 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 25 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 47 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 47 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 47 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 48 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 48 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT 49 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 51 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 51 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 53 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 53 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 53 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 55 SIGNATURES 56 EX-4.14 EX-10.16(b) EX-10.16(c) EX-10.16(d) EX-10.19 EX-10.29 EX-21 EX-23 EX-24 EX-31.1(a) EX-31.1(b) EX-32.1 EX-32.2 2 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Stanley Black Decker, Inc. ("the Company") was founded in 1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and incorporated in Connecticut in 1852. In March 2010, the Company completed a merger ("the Merger") with The Black Decker Corporation ( Black Decker ), a company founded by S. Duncan Black and Alonzo G. Decker and incorporated in Maryland in 1910. At that time, the Company changed its name from The Stanley Works to Stanley Black Decker, Inc. The Company is a diversified global provider of hand tools, power tools and related accessories, engineered fastening systems and products, services and equipment for oil gas and infrastructure applications, commercial electronic security and monitoring systems, healthcare solutions, and automatic doors, with 2019 consolidated annual revenues of $14.4 billion . Approximately 59 % of the Company s 2019 revenues were generated in the United States, with the remainder largely from Europe ( 20% ), emerging markets ( 13% ) and Canada ( 4% ). The Company continues to execute a growth and acquisition strategy that involves industry, geographic and customer diversification to foster sustainable revenue, earnings and cash flow growth. The Company remains focused on delivering above-market organic growth with margin expansion by leveraging its proven and long-standing operating model which has continually evolved over the past 15 years as times have changed. In light of the rapidly moving dynamics throughout the world, including acceleration of technological change, geopolitical instability and the changing nature of work, this past year the Company decided to contemporize its existing Stanley Fulfillment System ("SFS") 2.0 model for the 2020s and created the new Stanley Black Decker Operating Model ( SBD Operating Model ). At the center of the new model is the concept of the interrelationship between people and technology, which intersect and interact with the other key elements: Performance Resiliency, Extreme Innovation, Operations Excellence and Extraordinary Customer Experience. Each of these elements co-exists synergistically with the others in a systems-based approach. The Company will leverage the SBD Operating Model to continue making strides towards achieving its vision of delivering top-quartile financial performance, becoming known as one of the world s leading innovators and elevating its commitment to social responsibility. The above strategy has also resulted in approximately $10.1 billion of acquisitions since 2002 (excluding the Merger and pending acquisition of Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing, LLC, as discussed below), which was enabled by strong cash flow generation and increased debt capacity. In recent years, the Company completed the acquisitions of International Equipment Solutions Attachments Group ("IES Attachments") for approximately $654 million , Nelson Fastener Systems ("Nelson") for approximately $424 million , the Tools business of Newell Brands ("Newell Tools") for approximately $1.84 billion , and the Craftsman brand from Sears Holdings Corporation ("Sears Holdings") for an estimated cash purchase price of approximately $937 million on a discounted basis. The IES Attachments acquisition further diversifies the Company's presence in the industrial markets, expands its portfolio of attachment solutions and provides a meaningful platform for continued growth. The Nelson acquisition was complementary to the Company's product offerings, enhanced its presence in the general industrial end markets, and expanded its portfolio of highly-engineered fastening solutions. The Newell Tools acquisition, which included the industrial cutting, hand tool and power tool accessory brands IRWIN and LENOX , enhanced the Company s position within the global tools storage industry and broadened the Company s product offerings and solutions to customers and end users, particularly within power tool accessories. The Craftsman acquisition provided the Company with the rights to develop, manufacture and sell Craftsman -branded products in non-Sears Holdings channels. Furthermore, the Company recently announced an agreement to acquire Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing, LLC ("CAM"), an industry-leading manufacturer of specialty fasteners and components for the aerospace and defense markets. The acquisition is expected to further diversify the Company's presence in the industrial markets and expand its portfolio of specialty fasteners in the high-growth, high-margin aerospace and defense market. The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval, and is expected to close in late February 2020. In January 2019, the Company acquired a 20 percent interest in MTD Holdings Inc. ("MTD"), a privately held global manufacturer of outdoor power equipment, for $234 million in cash. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company has the option to acquire the remaining 80 percent of MTD beginning on July 1, 2021. The investment in MTD increases the Company's presence in the $20 billion outdoor power equipment market and allows the two companies to work together to pursue revenue and cost opportunities, improve operational efficiency, and introduce new and innovative products for professional and residential outdoor equipment customers, utilizing each company's respective portfolios of strong brands. In May 2019, the Company sold its Sargent and Greenleaf mechanical locks business within the Security segment for net proceeds of $ 79 million . This sale allows the Company to invest in other areas of the Company that fit into its long-term growth strategy. 3 In February 2017, the Company completed the sale of the majority of its mechanical security businesses, which included the commercial hardware brands of Best Access, phi Precision and GMT, for net proceeds of approximately $717 million . This sale allowed the Company to deploy capital in a more accretive and growth-oriented manner. The Company has also divested several smaller businesses in recent years that did not fit into its long-term strategic objectives. Refer to Note E, Acquisitions and Investments, and Note T, Divestitures , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion. At December 28, 2019 , the Company employed 59,438 people worldwide. The Company s principal executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is (860) 225-5111. Description of the Business The Company s operations are classified into three reportable business segments, which also represent its operating segments: Tools Storage, Industrial and Security. All segments have significant international operations and are exposed to translational and transactional impacts from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional information regarding the Company s business segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned Business Segment Results in Item 7 and Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 . Tools Storage The Tools Storage segment is comprised of the Power Tools and Equipment ("PTE") and Hand Tools, Accessories Storage ("HTAS") businesses. Annual revenues in the Tools Storage segment were $10.1 billion in 2019 , representing 70% of the Company s total revenues. The PTE business includes both professional and consumer products. Professional products include professional grade corded and cordless electric power tools and equipment including drills, impact wrenches and drivers, grinders, saws, routers and sanders, as well as pneumatic tools and fasteners including nail guns, nails, staplers and staples, concrete and masonry anchors. Consumer products include corded and cordless electric power tools sold primarily under the BLACK+DECKER brand, lawn and garden products, including hedge trimmers, string trimmers, lawn mowers, edgers and related accessories, and home products such as hand-held vacuums, paint tools and cleaning appliances. The HTAS business sells hand tools, power tool accessories and storage products. Hand tools include measuring, leveling and layout tools, planes, hammers, demolition tools, clamps, vises, knives, saws, chisels and industrial and automotive tools. Power tool accessories include drill bits, screwdriver bits, router bits, abrasives, saw blades and threading products. Storage products include tool boxes, sawhorses, medical cabinets and engineered storage solution products. The segment sells its products to professional end users, distributors, retail consumers and industrial customers in a wide variety of industries and geographies. The majority of sales are distributed through retailers, including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards, as well as third-party distributors and a direct sales force. Industrial The Industrial segment is comprised of the Engineered Fastening and Infrastructure businesses. Annual revenues in the Industrial segment were $2.4 billion in 2019 , representing 17% of the Company s total revenues. The Engineered Fastening business primarily sells engineered fastening products and systems designed for specific applications. The product lines include blind rivets and tools, blind inserts and tools, drawn arc weld studs and systems, engineered plastic and mechanical fasteners, self-piercing riveting systems and precision nut running systems, micro fasteners, and high-strength structural fasteners. The business sells to customers in the automotive, manufacturing, electronics, construction, and aerospace industries, amongst others, and its products are distributed through direct sales forces and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors. The Infrastructure business consists of the Oil Gas and Attachment Tools product lines. Oil Gas sells and rents custom pipe handling, joint welding and coating equipment used in the construction of large and small diameter pipelines, and provides pipeline inspection services. Attachment Tools sells hydraulic tools, attachments and accessories. The Infrastructure business sells to the oil and natural gas pipeline industry and other industrial customers. The products and services are primarily distributed through a direct sales force and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors. Security 4 The Security segment is comprised of the Convergent Security Solutions ("CSS") and Mechanical Access Solutions ("MAS") businesses. Annual revenues in the Security segment were $1.9 billion in 2019 , representing 13% of the Company s total revenues. The CSS business designs, supplies and installs commercial electronic security systems and provides electronic security services, including alarm monitoring, video surveillance, fire alarm monitoring, systems integration and system maintenance. Purchasers of these systems typically contract for ongoing security systems monitoring and maintenance at the time of initial equipment installation. The business also sells healthcare solutions, which include asset tracking, infant protection, pediatric protection, patient protection, wander management, fall management, and emergency call products. The CSS business sells to consumers, retailers, educational, financial and healthcare institutions, as well as commercial, governmental and industrial customers. The MAS business primarily sells automatic doors to commercial customers. Products for both businesses are sold predominantly on a direct sales basis. Other Information Competition The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service, its strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines, its innovative products and customer value propositions. The Company encounters active competition in the Tools Storage and Industrial segments from both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services. Certain large customers offer private label brands ( house brands ) that compete across a wide spectrum of the Company s Tools Storage segment product offerings. Competition in the Security segment is generally fragmented via both large international companies and regional providers. Competition tends to be based primarily on price and the quality and comprehensiveness of services offered to customers. Major Customers A significant portion of the Company s Tools Storage products are sold to home centers and mass merchants in the U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has occurred over time. While this consolidation and the domestic and international expansion of these large retailers have provided the Company with opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. Lowe's accounted for approximately 15% , 12% and 11% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017, respectively, while The Home Depot accounted for approximately 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2019 . No other customer exceeded 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2019 , 2018 or 2017 . Working Capital The Company continues to practice the five operating principles encompassed by Operations Excellence (formerly Core SFS), one element of the SBD Operating Model, which work in concert: sales and operations planning ("S OP"), operational lean, complexity reduction, global supply management, and order-to-cash excellence. As part of the evolution of the new operating model, technology, the application of Industry 4.0 and upskilling the Company's workforce have become formally integrated into Operations Excellence. The Company develops standardized business processes and system platforms to reduce costs and provide scalability. The continued focus on the five operating principles above has been instrumental in reducing working capital and creating significant opportunities to generate incremental free cash flow (defined as cash flow from operations less capital and software expenditures). Working capital turns were 9.8 at the end of 2019 , up 1.0 turn from 2018, reflecting a focus on working capital management and lower inventory investment associated with recent Tools Storage brand roll-outs. The Company plans to continue leveraging Operations Excellence to generate ongoing improvements, both in the existing business and future acquisitions, in working capital turns, cycle times, complexity reduction and customer service levels, with a long-term goal of sustaining 10+ working capital turns. Raw Materials The Company s products are manufactured using resins, ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel. The Company also purchases components such as batteries, motors, and electronic components to use in manufacturing and assembly operations along with resin-based molded parts. The raw materials required are procured globally and generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. As part of the Company's Enterprise Risk Management, the Company has implemented a supplier risk mitigation strategy in order to identify and address any potential supply disruption associated with commodities, components, finished goods and critical services. The Company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials or energy used in its production processes. 5 Backlog Due to short order cycles and rapid inventory turnover primarily in the Company's Tools Storage segment, backlog is generally not considered a significant indicator of future performance. At February 1, 2020, the Company had approximately $991 million in unfilled orders, which mainly related to the Engineered Fastening and Security businesses. Substantially all of these orders are reasonably expected to be filled within the current fiscal year. As of February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018 , unfilled orders amounted to $1,001 million and $929 million , respectively. Patents and Trademarks No business segment is solely dependent, to any significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions, and the loss of one or several of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material adverse effect on any of the Company's businesses. The Company owns numerous patents, none of which individually is material to the Company's operations as a whole. These patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds licenses, franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the Company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and concessions vary in duration, but generally run from one to 40 years. The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its businesses worldwide. In the Tools Storage segment, significant trademarks include STANLEY , BLACK+DECKER , D E WALT , FLEXVOLT , IRWIN , LENOX , CRAFTSMAN , PORTER-CABLE , BOSTITCH , FATMAX , Powers , Guaranteed Tough , MAC TOOLS , PROTO , Vidmar , FACOM , USAG , Expert , SIDCHROME , LISTA and the yellow black color scheme for power tools and accessories. Significant trademarks in the Industrial segment include STANLEY , CRC , NELSON , LaBounty , Dubuis , CribMaster , POP , Avdel , Heli-Coil , Tucker , NPR , Spiralock , PALADIN , PENGO and STANLEY Assembly Technologies. The Security segment includes significant trademarks such as STANLEY , Blick , HSM , SONITROL , Stanley Access Technologies , AeroScout , Hugs , WanderGuard , Roam Alert , MyCall , Arial and Bed-Check . The terms of these trademarks typically vary from 10 to 20 years, with most trademarks being renewable indefinitely for like terms. Environmental Regulations The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it has operations. In the normal course of business, the Company is involved in various legal proceedings relating to environmental issues. The Company s policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In the event that no amount in the range of probable loss is considered most likely, the minimum loss in the range is accrued. The amount of liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to each individual site and includes such factors as existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior experience in remediation of contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not take into account any claims for recoveries from insurance or third parties. As assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that becomes available. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 , the Company had reserves of $213.8 million and $246.6 million , respectively, for remediation activities associated with Company-owned properties, as well as for Superfund sites, for losses that are probable and estimable. Of the 2019 amount, $57.8 million is classified as current and $156.0 million as long-term, which is expected to be paid over the estimated remediation period. As of December 28, 2019 , the Company has recorded $15.6 million in other assets related to funding by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and monies received have been placed in trust in accordance with the Consent Decree associated with the West Coast Loading Corporation ("WCLC") proceedings, as further discussed in Note S, Contingencies , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 . Accordingly, the Company's cash obligation as of December 28, 2019 associated with the aforementioned remediation activities is $198.2 million . The range of environmental remediation costs that is reasonably possible is $149.1 million to $286.1 million , which is subject to change in the near term. The Company may be liable for environmental remediation of sites it no longer owns. Liabilities have been recorded on those sites in accordance with the Company's policy. The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future contingent liability costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with these matters in excess of the amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Additional information regarding environmental matters is available in Note S, Contingencies , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 . 6 Employees At December 28, 2019 , the Company had 59,438 employees, 17,582 of whom were employed in the U.S. Employees in the U.S. totaling 1,359 are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with 30 different local labor unions who are, in turn, affiliated with approximately 7 different international labor unions. The majority of the Company s hourly-paid and weekly-paid employees outside the U.S. are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company s labor agreements in the U.S. expire between 2020 and 2021. There have been no significant interruptions of the Company s operations in recent years due to labor disputes. The Company believes it has a good relationship with its employees. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs, which are classified in Selling, general and administrative ("SG A"), were $255.2 million , $275.8 million and $252.3 million for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The Company continues to focus on becoming known as one of the world's greatest innovators and remains committed to generating new core and breakthrough innovations. Available Information The Company s website is located at http://www.stanleyblackanddecker.com. This URL is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. It is not intended to be an active hyperlink to the Company's website. The information on the Company's website is not, and is not intended to be, part of this Form 10-K and is not incorporated into this report by reference. The Company makes its Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and amendments to each available free of charge on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing them with, or furnishing them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 7