ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 22 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 22 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 24 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 25 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 26 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 28 ITEM 6. REMOVED AND RESERVED 30 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 30 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 51 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 51 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 51 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 52 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 52 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 52 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT 53 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 54 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 54 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 56 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 56 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 56 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 58 SIGNATURES 123 EX-4.5 EX-10.14(i) EX-10.14(j) EX-10.14(k) EX-10.14(l) EX-10.14(m) EX-10.14(n) EX-10.14(o) EX-10.14(p) EX-10.26 EX-21 EX-23 EX-24 EX-31.1(a) EX-31.1(b) EX-32.1 EX-32.2 EX-97 2 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Stanley Black Decker, Inc. ("the Company") was founded in 1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and incorporated in Connecticut in 1852. In March 2010, the Company completed a merger with The Black Decker Corporation ( Black Decker ), a company founded by S. Duncan Black and Alonzo G. Decker and incorporated in Maryland in 1910. At that time, the Company changed its name from The Stanley Works to Stanley Black Decker, Inc. The Company s principal executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is (860) 225-5111. The Company is a global provider of hand tools, power tools, outdoor products and related accessories, as well as a leading provider of engineered fastening solutions, with 2023 consolidated annual revenues of $15.8 billion. Approximately 62% of the Company s 2023 revenues were generated in the United States, with the remainder largely from Europe (16%), emerging markets (12%) and Canada (5%). In recent years, the Company has re-shaped its portfolio through a series of acquisitions and divestitures. In December 2021, the Company completed the acquisitions of the remaining 80 percent ownership stake of MTD Holdings Inc. ("MTD") for $1.5 billion and Excel Industries ("Excel") for $374 million. The MTD acquisition expanded the Company's presence in the $25 billion outdoor category, with strong brands and growth opportunities. Excel was a strategically important bolt-on acquisition that bolstered the Company's presence in the independent dealer network. In July 2022, the Company sold its Convergent Security Solutions ("CSS") business comprised of the commercial electronic security and healthcare businesses for net proceeds of $3.1 billion and its Mechanical Access Solutions ("MAS") business comprised of the automatic doors business for net proceeds of $916 million. In August 2022, the Company sold its Oil Gas business comprised of the pipeline services and equipment businesses. Most recently, the Company announced in December 2023 that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Infrastructure business, comprised of the attachment and handheld hydraulic tools business, for $760 million in cash. These recent acquisitions and divestitures are part of the Company's strategic commitment to simplify and streamline its portfolio to focus on its leading market positions in tools and outdoor, as well as engineered fastening systems. Refer to Note E, Acquisitions , and Note T, Divestitures , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion. Leveraging the benefits of a more focused portfolio, the Company initiated a business transformation in mid-2022 that includes reinvestment for faster growth as well as the $2.0 billion Global Cost Reduction Program through 2025. The Company s primary areas of multi-year strategic focus remain unchanged as follows: Advancing innovation, electrification and global market penetration to achieve organic revenue growth of 2 to 3 times the market; Streamlining and simplifying the organization, and investing in initiatives that more directly impact the Company's customers and end users; Returning adjusted gross margins to historical 35%+ levels by accelerating the operations and supply chain transformation to improve fill rates and better match inventory with customer demand; and Prioritizing cash flow generation and inventory optimization. In terms of capital allocation, the Company remains committed, over time, to returning excess capital to shareholders through a strong and growing dividend as well as opportunistically repurchasing shares. In the near term, the Company intends to direct any capital in excess of the quarterly dividend on its common stock toward debt reduction and internal growth investments. The Company s environmental, social and governance ("ESG") strategy is integrated into, and informed by, its overall long-term business strategy. The portfolio changes discussed above prompted the Company to re-baseline its ESG data and update its ESG targets to align with the more focused Company and its business priorities and goals, while maintaining continuity with the legacy ESG pillars of people, products, and planet. The Company s renewed ESG priorities are as follows: The People strategy includes broad based diversity, equity inclusion ("DEI") initiatives supported by equal employment opportunities and the Company's Growing the Trades program. Refer to the "Human Capital Management" section below for additional information regarding the Company's commitment to supporting its employees and improving DEI. To grow the trades, the Company is tailoring its philanthropic efforts to fund trade skill-building initiatives with $30 million pledged by 2027. The Company believes this will generate end-user loyalty and brand ambassadorship that fuels long-term demand. The Product strategy is focused on minimizing the environmental footprint of the Company s products through an emphasis on Sustainable Innovation. The Company s products are increasingly designed with sustainability in mind from more sustainable materials specified in product design and packaging, to more eco-friendly impacts resulting from the use of its products, to thoughtful end-of-life repair, reuse and recycling programs. To measure progress in 3 this space, the Company set an intensity-based goal to reduce the greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions of its products' material, transportation, and use phases (Scope 3) by 52% by 2030. To reach this goal, the Company plans to engage two-thirds of its suppliers to set their own Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction targets by 2027. The Company plans to work with customers and suppliers to try to reduce or eliminate problematic plastics in its packaging and improve packaging sustainability, with a specific goal to be set by 2025; and plans to continue the transformation of its product portfolio to quieter, safer, and more eco-friendly offerings through electrification. The Planet strategy for Sustainable Operations is focused on the responsible stewardship of the Company s owned and operated facilities. The Company is implementing a climate science-based plan with a goal to reduce its internal operational GHG emissions by 42% (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 2030, against the 2022 baseline. The Company expects to do this by continuing to invest in renewable power sources, such as wind and solar, while improving efficiencies through capital investments, and evaluating additional tools like power purchase agreements and energy attribute certificates. The Company will also pursue zero-waste-to-landfill across all its global manufacturing and distribution sites by 2040. The Company believes the responsible stewardship of its operations is important for energy independence and operations resilience, and increasingly as a value proposition for its customers, who value sustainable upstream suppliers as they work to reduce their own carbon footprint. The Company s annual ESG report, issued in August 2023, details the evolution of its ESG strategy and refreshed public commitments. The report includes a comprehensive review of the Company's ESG program and builds on a long history of annually reporting its sustainability metrics and public goals. As explained in the ESG report, the Company's goals contemplate a number of assumptions and there can be no assurances that those assumptions will be correct or that such goals will be achieved or retained. Description of the Business The Company s operations are classified into two reportable business segments: Tools Outdoor and Industrial. Both reportable segments have significant international operations and are exposed to translational and transactional impacts from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional information regarding the Company s business segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned Business Segment Results in Item 7 and Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 . 4 Tools Outdoor The Tools Outdoor segment is comprised of the Power Tools Group ("PTG"), Hand Tools, Accessories Storage ("HTAS"), and Outdoor Power Equipment ("Outdoor") product lines. Annual revenues in the Tools Outdoor segment were $13.4 billion in 2023, representing 85% of the Company s total revenues. The segment is a worldwide leader in the tools and outdoor markets and carries iconic brands in the industry, including DEWALT , CRAFTSMAN , STANLEY , BLACK+DECKER and CUB CADET . The PTG product line includes both professional and consumer products. Professional products, primarily under the DEWALT brand, include professional grade corded and cordless electric power tools and equipment including drills, impact wrenches and drivers, grinders, saws, routers and sanders, as well as pneumatic tools and fasteners including nail guns, nails, staplers and staples, and concrete and masonry anchors. DIY and tradesperson focused products include corded and cordless electric power tools sold primarily under the CRAFTSMAN brand, and consumer home products such as hand-held vacuums, paint tools and cleaning appliances primarily under the BLACK+DECKER brand. The HTAS product line sells hand tools, power tool accessories and storage products. Hand tools include measuring, leveling and layout tools, planes, hammers, demolition tools, clamps, vises, knives, saws, chisels and industrial and automotive tools. Power tool accessories include drill bits, screwdriver bits, router bits, abrasives, saw blades and threading products. Storage products include tool boxes, sawhorses, medical cabinets and engineered storage solution products. The Outdoor product line primarily sells corded and cordless electric lawn and garden products, including hedge trimmers, string trimmers, lawn mowers, pressure washers and related accessories, and gas powered lawn and garden products, including lawn tractors, zero turn ride on mowers, walk behind mowers, snow blowers, residential robotic mowers, utility terrain vehicles (UTVs), hand-held outdoor power equipment, garden tools, and parts and accessories to professionals and consumers under the DEWALT , CRAFTSMAN , CUB CADET , BLACK+DECKER , and HUSTLER brand names. The segment sells its products to professional end users, distributors, independent dealers, retail consumers and industrial customers in a wide variety of industries and geographies. The majority of sales are distributed through retailers, including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards, as well as third-party distributors, independent dealers, and a direct sales force. Industrial The Industrial segment is comprised of the Engineered Fastening and Infrastructure businesses. Annual revenues in the Industrial segment were $2.4 billion in 2023, representing 15% of the Company s total revenues. The Engineered Fastening business is a global leader of highly engineered, application-based solutions. The business primarily sells highly engineered components such as fasteners, fittings and various engineered products, which are designed for specific application across multiple verticals. The product lines include externally threaded fasteners, blind rivets and tools, blind inserts and tools, drawn arc weld studs and systems, engineered plastic and mechanical fasteners, self-piercing riveting systems, precision nut running systems, micro fasteners, high-strength structural fasteners, axel swage, latches, heat shields, pins, and couplings. The business sells to customers in the automotive, manufacturing, electronics, construction, and aerospace industries, amongst others, and its products are distributed through a direct sales force and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors. The Infrastructure business designs, manufactures, and sells attachments, typically used on excavators, and handheld hydraulic and battery-powered tools for applications in infrastructure, construction, scrap recycling, demolition, and railroad infrastructure. The products and services are primarily distributed through a direct sales force and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors. Other Information Competition The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service, its strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines, its innovative products and customer value propositions. The Company encounters active competition in the Tools Outdoor and Industrial segments from both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. Certain large customers offer private label brands ( house brands ) that compete across a wide spectrum of the Company s Tools Outdoor segment product offerings. 5 Major Customers A significant portion of the Company s Tools Outdoor products are sold to home centers and mass merchants in the U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has occurred over time. While this consolidation and the domestic and international expansion of these large retailers have provided the Company with opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. Lowe's accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 15% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, while The Home Depot accounted for approximately 13%, 13% and 15% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. No other customer exceeded 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2023, 2022 or 2021. Working Capital The Company continues to practice the operating principles encompassed by Operational Excellence, one element of the supply chain transformation, leveraging the principles of: sales and operations planning, operational lean, global supply management, order-to-cash excellence, and upskilling the Company's workforce. The Company aims to develop standardized business processes and system platforms to reduce costs and provide scalability. Working capital turns were 4.2 at the end of 2023, up 0.7 turns from 2022, driven by the Company's focus on optimizing inventory levels via improved supply chain conditions and strategic inventory management. As a result of this focus and planned production curtailments initiated during the back half of 2022, inventory as of December 30, 2023 was $4.7 billion, down $1.9 billion from its peak at the end of the second quarter of 2022. The Company plans to continue leveraging Operational Excellence to generate ongoing improvements in working capital turns, cycle times, and customer service levels. Raw Materials The Company s products are manufactured using resins, ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel. The Company also purchases components such as batteries, motors, engines, transmissions, and electronic components to use in manufacturing and assembly operations along with resin-based molded parts. The raw materials required are procured globally and generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. As part of the Company's Enterprise Risk Management, the Company has implemented a supplier risk mitigation strategy in order to identify and address any potential supply disruption or material scarcity issues associated with commodities, components, finished goods and critical services. The Company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials used in its production processes and has maintained the proactive measures taken in 2022 to secure energy supply in its European factories to insulate the Company's production from supply constraints in the region. Patents and Trademarks No business segment is solely dependent, to any significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions, and the loss of one or several of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material adverse effect on any of the Company's businesses. The Company owns numerous patents, none of which individually are material to the Company's operations as a whole. These patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds licenses, franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the Company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and concessions vary in duration, but generally run from one to 40 years. The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its businesses worldwide. In the Tools Outdoor segment, significant trademarks include DEWALT , CRAFTSMAN , STANLEY , BLACK+DECKER , DEWALT FLEXVOLT , DEWALT POWERSTACK , DEWALT POWERSHIFT , IRWIN , LENOX , PORTER-CABLE , BOSTITCH , FATMAX , Powers , Guaranteed Tough , MAC TOOLS , PROTO , Vidmar , FACOM , Expert , LISTA , MTD , CUB CADET , TROY-BILT , HUSTLER , and the yellow black color scheme for power tools and accessories. Significant trademarks in the Industrial segment include STANLEY , NELSON , CribMaster , POP , Avdel , Tucker , NPR , Spiralock , CAM , Bristol Industries , Voss , Aerofit , EA Patten , Integra , and Optia . The terms of these trademarks typically vary from 10 to 20 years, with most trademarks being renewable indefinitely for like terms. Governmental Regulations The Company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, both within and outside the U.S., in areas such as environmental protection, international trade, anti-corruption, data privacy, tax, consumer protection, government contracts, climate change and others. The Company is subject to import and export controls, tariffs, and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in the countries in which it has operations or otherwise does business. These controls, tariffs, regulations, and restrictions have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on the Company's business, including its ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components. Refer to