ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries ( Skyworks or the Company ), is empowering the wireless networking revolution. The Company s highly innovative analog and mixed-signal semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, defense, entertainment and gaming, industrial, medical, smartphone, tablet, and wearable markets. Over the past two decades, Skyworks has made critical investments to power this connectivity transformation, addressing key network technologies from cellular to advanced Wi-Fi , enhanced GPS, and Bluetooth , among others. Capitalizing on both organic growth and strategic acquisitions, we are gaining momentum in high-growth verticals, while at the same time, diversifying our revenue and customer set. In July 2021, we acquired the Infrastructure and Automotive business of Silicon Laboratories Inc. (the Acquisition ). The Acquisition has accelerated our expansion into high-growth market segments, including electric and hybrid vehicles, industrial and motor control, power supply, 5G wireless infrastructure, optical data communication, data center, automotive, smart home, and several other applications. Our key customers include Amazon, Apple Inc. ( Apple ), Arcadyan, Arris, Bose, Cisco, DJI, Ericsson, Garmin, Gemalto (a Thales company), General Electric, Fibocom, Google, Honeywell, Itron, Lenovo, LG Electronics, Microsoft, Motorola, NETGEAR, Nokia, Northrop Grumman, OPPO, Rockwell Collins, Sagemcom, Samsung, Sierra Wireless, Sonos, Sony, Technicolor, Telit, VIVO, Xiaomi, and ZTE. Our competitors include Analog Devices, Broadcom, Cirrus Logic, Murata Manufacturing, NXP Semiconductors, Qorvo, Qualcomm, and Texas Instruments. We operate worldwide with engineering, manufacturing, sales, and service facilities throughout Asia, Europe, and North America. Our Internet address is www.skyworksinc.com. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after we electronically submit such material to the SEC. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov. Industry Background Wireless connectivity is expanding on a global basis, underscoring the critical nature of our mission of connecting everyone and everything, all the time. A widening range of use cases is driving an insatiable demand for ubiquitous wireless data across a broad array of applications, including remote work, entertainment, fitness, virtual education and meetings, telemedicine, factory automation, connected cars, mobile internet, cloud gaming, and AR/VR technology. This results in an extraordinary need for faster speeds, increased bandwidth and capacity, significantly lower latency, and more reliable and secure wireless connectivity. The speed and ultra-low latency characteristics inherent in 5G technology are dramatically altering wireless connectivity, creating a market for diverse and transformative applications, and changing how individuals live, work, play, and learn. Most of the world s largest economies are implementing commercial 5G networks, and the world s leading smartphone manufacturers have launched multiple generations of 5G-enabled devices. We see a continued expansion in data consumption, dependent on seamless, reliable, and ubiquitous wireless connectivity. A few statistics illustrate this point. According to the 2021 Ericsson Mobility Report, global wireless data traffic is expected to grow at a 27% annual rate over the next five years. Machine-to-machine connections, the fastest-growing IoT category, is expected to soon surpass 15 billion devices. By 2030, we expect there will be 650 million connected cars worldwide, each consuming 25 times the data that we see in today s smartphones. We are helping to enable these opportunities with highly customized solutions supporting a broad set of wireless systems and protocols including cellular, 5G, Wi-Fi, GPS, Bluetooth, Accutime , HD-Radio , LoRa , Thread , and Zigbee . In addition, next-generation Wi-Fi 6 and 6E products are emerging as the standard offering across enterprise, carrier, and retail segments and are expected to accelerate the deployment of IoT devices. Looking forward, we see significant growth opportunities for our industry and for Skyworks. The key catalyst is the increasing demand for wireless data as the world embraces 5G and other advanced connectivity technologies. 5 Solving Connectivity Challenges Highly integrated semiconductor solutions are playing an increasingly essential and pivotal role in the deployment of next-generation standards by resolving the daunting analog, mixed-signal, and RF complexities that are challenging the capabilities of existing hardware and the supporting network infrastructure. Delivering on these design challenges requires broad competencies including signal transmission and conditioning, the ability to ensure seamless hand-offs between multiple standards, power management, voltage regulation, battery charging, advanced filtering, and tuning. We are at the forefront of this new era of connectivity, delivering the solutions that help enable the true potential of 5G and the IoT. We have a rich heritage in analog systems design and have spent years investing in key technologies and resources. Our strength is underpinned by world-class performance and scale across a broad array of capabilities that include advanced TC-SAW and BAW filters, an expanded family of MIMO, ultra-high band, and diversity receive modules, timing devices, and digital power isolators. From our breakthrough Sky5 unifying platform to our 5G small cell solutions, our approach across both infrastructure and user equipment facilitates powerful, high-speed, end-to-end 5G connectivity. Skyworks' Strategy Our ambitious vision is to connect everyone and everything, all the time. Major elements of our strategy include: Industry-Leading Technology As the industry migrates to more complex 5G architectures across a multitude of wireless applications, we are well-positioned to help mobile device manufacturers handle growing levels of system complexity across both the transmit and receive chains. The trend towards increasing front-end and analog design challenges in smartphones and other platforms plays directly into our core strengths and positions us to address these challenges. We believe that we offer the broadest portfolio of radio and analog solutions from the transceiver to the antenna as well as all required manufacturing process technologies. We also hold strong technology leadership positions in passive devices, advanced integration, including proprietary shielding and 3-D die stacking, as well as SAW, TC-SAW, and BAW filters. Our product portfolio is reinforced by a library of approximately 4,600 worldwide patents and other intellectual property that we own and control. Together, our industry-leading technology enables us to deliver the highest levels of product performance and integration. Customer Relationships Given our scale and technology leadership, we are engaged with all of the major original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ), smartphone providers, and baseband reference design partners in the analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry. Our customers value the scale of our global supply chain, our innovative technology, our ability to curate and deliver unique solutions, and our system engineering expertise, resulting in deep customer loyalty. We partner with our customers to support their long-term product road maps and are valued as a system solutions provider rather than just a point product vendor. Diversification We are diversifying our business by expanding our addressable markets and broadening our product portfolio to reach a wider array of global customers. With the increasing adoption of 5G and the opportunity to enable more applications, we are growing our business beyond mobile devices (where we support all top-tier manufacturers, including the leading smartphone suppliers and key baseband vendors) into additional high-performance analog markets, including automotive, home and factory automation, data center, solar, wireless infrastructure, aerospace and defense, medical, smart energy, and wireless networking. In these markets we leverage our scale, intellectual property, and worldwide distribution network, which spans more than 6,000 customers and 7,600 unique products. Delivering Operational Excellence We vertically integrate our supply chain where we can differentiate ourselves with highly specialized internal manufacturing capabilities or enter into alliances and strategic relationships for leading-edge technologies. This hybrid manufacturing model allows us to better balance our manufacturing capacity with the demand of the marketplace, resulting in a strong return on invested capital on a broader range of revenue. Additionally, we continue to drive reductions in product design and manufacturing cycle times and further improve product yields. The combination of agile, flexible capacity, and world-class module manufacturing and scale advantage allows us to achieve low product costs while integrating multiple technologies into highly sophisticated multi-chip modules and helping to ensure stable supply to our global customer base. 6 Maintaining a Performance-Driven Culture We consider our people and corporate culture to be a competitive advantage and a key component of our corporate strategy. We create key performance indicators that align employee efforts and link responsibilities with performance measurement. Accountability is paramount, and we compensate our employees through a pay-for-performance methodology. Generating Superior Operating Results and Stockholder Returns We believe our manufacturing scale, broad product portfolio, strong profitability, and consistent cash flow generation position us to provide superior results and strong returns to our stockholders. Our Product Portfolio Our extensive product portfolio includes: Amplifiers: the modules that strengthen the signal so that it has sufficient energy to reach a base station Antenna Tuners: aperture and impedance tuning products that improve antenna performance across frequencies Attenuators: circuits that allow a known source of power to be reduced by a predetermined factor (usually expressed as decibels) Automotive Tuners and Digital Radios: tuners, data receivers, and digital radio coprocessors used in automotive infotainment systems Circulators/Isolators: ferrite-based components commonly found on the output of high-power amplifiers used to protect receivers in wireless transmission systems Wireless ASoC: an intelligent 2.4 GHz and 5GHz wireless radio integrated circuit that includes all the analog and digital functions optimized for building cognitive wireless audio headsets, headphones, and wireless speaker systems DC/DC Converters: an electronic circuit which converts a source of direct current from one voltage level to another Demodulators: a device or an RF block used in receivers to extract the information that has been modulated onto a carrier or from the carrier itself Detectors: devices used to measure and control RF power in wireless systems Digital Power Isolators: energy efficient solutions used in industrial control, solar inverters and hybrid/electric automotive drive trains Diodes: semiconductor devices that pass current in one direction only Directional Couplers: transmission coupling devices for separately sampling the forward or backward wave in a transmission line Diversity Receive Modules: devices used to improve receiver sensitivity in high data rate applications Filters: devices for recovering and separating mixed and modulated data in RF stages, including SAW, TC-SAW, and BAW filters Front-end Modules: two or more functions co-packaged to optimize the performance, cost, and application suitability in products, including intermediate or radio frequency signal paths Hybrid: a type of directional coupler used in radio and telecommunications LED Drivers: devices which regulate the current through a light-emitting diode or string of diodes for the purpose of creating light Low-Noise Amplifiers: devices used to reduce system noise figure in the receive chain Mixers: devices that enable signals to be converted to a higher or lower frequency signal and thereby allowing the signals to be processed more effectively Modulators: devices that take a baseband input signal and output a radio frequency modulated signal Optocouplers/Optoisolators: semiconductor devices that allow signals to be transferred between circuits or systems while ensuring that the circuits or systems are electrically isolated from each other Phase Locked Loops: closed-loop feedback control system that maintains a generated signal in a fixed phase relationship to a reference signal Phase Shifters: designed for use in power amplifier distortion compensation circuits in base station applications Power Dividers/Combiners: utilized to equally split signals into in-phase signals as often found in balanced signal chains and local oscillator distribution networks Receivers: electronic devices that change a radio signal from a transmitter into useful information Switches: components that perform the change between the transmit and receive function, as well as the band function for cellular handsets Synthesizers: devices that provide ultra-fine frequency resolution, fast switching speed, and low phase-noise performance Timing Devices: wireless clocks and oscillators used in optical networking, data center and wireless base stations Technical Ceramics: polycrystalline oxide materials used for a wide variety of electrical, mechanical, thermal, and magnetic applications 7 Voltage Controlled Oscillators/Synthesizers: fully integrated, high performance signal source for high dynamic range transceivers Voltage Regulators: generate a fixed level which ideally remains constant over varying input voltage or load conditions We believe we possess broad technology capabilities and one of the most complete wireless communications product portfolios in the industry. Marketing and Distribution Our products are sold globally through a direct sales force, electronic component distributors, and independent sales representatives. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, our distributors may also market other products that compete with ours. Our sales engagement begins at the earliest stages of the design of an existing or potential customer s product. We collaborate technically with our customers and reference design partners at the inception of new programs. These relationships allow our team to facilitate customer-driven solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our intellectual property and product portfolio while providing high value and greatly reducing time-to-market. We believe the technical and complex nature of our products and markets demand an extraordinary commitment to maintain close ongoing relationships with our customers. We also employ a collaborative approach in developing these relationships by combining the support of our design teams, applications engineers, manufacturing personnel, sales and marketing staff, and senior management. Lastly, we leverage our customer relationships with cross-selling opportunities across product lines in order to maximize revenue. We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers is paramount to our continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service support. By listening and responding to feedback, we are able to mobilize resources to raise our level of customer satisfaction, improve our ability to anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market dynamics. We are confident that diligently following this path positions us to participate in numerous opportunities for growth in the future. Customer Concentration A small number of OEMs historically has accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. In the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022 ( fiscal 2022 ), October 1, 2021 ( fiscal 2021 ), and October 2, 2020 ( fiscal 2020 ), Apple, through sales to multiple distributors and contract manufacturers for multiple applications including smartphones, tablets, desktop and notebook computers, watches, and other devices, constituted more than ten percent of our net revenue. For further information regarding customer concentrations, see Note 15 to Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights We own or have a license to use numerous United States and foreign patents and patent applications related to our products and our manufacturing operations and processes. In addition, we own a number of trademarks and service marks applicable to certain of our products and services. We believe that our intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trade secrets, and trademarks, is of material importance to our business. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws, as well as non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our confidential and proprietary technologies, designs, devices, algorithms, processes, and other intellectual property. Our efforts may not meaningfully protect our intellectual property, or others may independently develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary technologies, designs, devices, algorithms, processes, or other intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and effective copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret protection may not be available in those jurisdictions. In addition to protecting our intellectual property, we strive to strengthen our intellectual property portfolio to enhance our ability to obtain cross-licenses of intellectual property from others, to obtain access to intellectual property we do not possess, and to more favorably resolve potential intellectual property claims against us. Due to rapid technological changes in the industry, we believe establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position depends primarily on our ability to develop new, innovative products through the technical competence of our engineering personnel. Competitive Conditions The competitive environment in the semiconductor industry is in a constant state of flux, with new products continually emerging and existing products approaching technological obsolescence. We compete on the basis of time-to-market, new 8 product innovation, quality, performance, price, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers and baseband vendors, personnel, and protection of our intellectual property. We participate in highly competitive markets against numerous competitors that may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. Research and Development Our products and markets demand rapid technological advancements requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and develop new products and technologies. Accordingly, we maintain a high level of research and development activity. We invested $617.9 million, $532.3 million, and $464.1 million in research and development during fiscal 2022, fiscal 2021, and fiscal 2020, respectively. The growth in research and development expenses were the result of increases in our internal product designs and product development activity for our target markets in each of these fiscal years. Our research and development expenses include new product development and innovations in integrated circuit design, investment in advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes, development of new packaging and test capabilities, and research on next-generation technologies and product opportunities. We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those demands. Raw Materials Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally available from several sources. It is our intent not to depend on a sole source of supply unless market or other conditions dictate otherwise. However, there are limited situations where we procure certain components and services for our products from single or limited sources, and we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. We purchase materials and services primarily pursuant to individual purchase orders. However, we have entered into certain supply agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other manufacturing-related services that specify minimum prices and purchase quantity based on our anticipated future requirements. Certain of our suppliers consign raw materials to us at our manufacturing facilities to which we take title as needed in our manufacturing process. We have taken strategic action with suppliers located around the world to secure sourcing of the raw materials and components necessary for our manufacturing. Backlog and Inventory Our sales are primarily from the sale of semiconductor products under individual customer purchase orders, some of which have underlying master sales agreements that specify terms governing the product sales. In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company s standard terms and conditions apply. We also maintain Skyworks-owned finished goods inventory at certain customer hub locations. We do not recognize revenue until these customers consume the Skyworks-owned inventory from these hub locations. Due to industry practice, which allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volume could result in a reduction in revenue and us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Government Regulations We are subject to international, federal, state, and local legislation, regulations, and other requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment; the treatment, transport, and disposal of hazardous wastes; recycling and product packaging; worker health and safety; and other activities affecting the environment, our workforce, and the management of our manufacturing operations. In addition, most of our customers have mandated that our operations and our products comply with various green initiatives and workers rights initiatives initiated by such customers, industry groups in which such customers participate, or the jurisdictions in which such customers operate. We believe that our operations and facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws. Our efforts to comply with environmental laws and worker health and safety laws could have material impacts on our capital expenditures, competitive position, or financial condition, though the magnitude and duration of such impacts are uncertain and difficult to quantify. We are also subject to import/export controls, tariffs, and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in the countries in which we have operations or otherwise do business. These controls, tariffs, regulations, and restrictions (including those discussed below in Item 1A, Risk Factors) have had, and we believe may continue to have, a material impact on our business, including our ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components. Government regulations are subject to change in the future, and accordingly we are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements or whether our compliance with such regulations will materially impact our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 9 Seasonality Sales of our products are subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of increased demand in end-user consumer applications, such as smartphones and tablet computing devices. The highest demand for our products generally occurs in our first fiscal quarter ending in December and the fourth fiscal quarter ending in September. The lowest demand for our products generally occurs in our second fiscal quarter ending in March and the third fiscal quarter ending in June. Employees Our workforce consists of approximately 11,150 employees located around the world, more than 99% of whom are full-time employees. As of September 30, 2022: Our workforce was distributed geographically approximately as follows: 55% in Mexico, 24% in the United States, 20% in Asia, 1% in Canada, and less than 1% in Europe. Our workforce was distributed by function approximately as follows: 47% in individual contributor manufacturing roles, 32% in engineering or technician roles, 10% in managerial roles, and 11% in professional or other administrative roles. Approximately 4,100 of our employees in Mexico, 290 of our employees in Singapore, and 460 of our employees in Japan were covered by collective bargaining and other union agreements. We focus on attracting and retaining employees by providing compensation and benefits packages that are competitive within the applicable market for each position. Nearly all full-time employees across the globe are eligible to participate in one of the Company s incentive plans, under which payments are tied to pre-established performance goals, as well as to purchase shares of the Company s common stock at a discount from its market price pursuant to the Company s employee stock purchase plans. In addition, we believe that developing our employees skill sets and decision-making abilities through challenging project assignments, formal training, mentorship, and recognition is key not only to our employees job satisfaction and our retention efforts, but also to maintaining a strong leadership pipeline. 10