Item 1. Business 8 - 24, 74 - 88 Item 1A. Risk Factors 56 - 73, 88 - 93 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 2. Properties 137 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 133 - 135 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 138 - 140 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 - 26 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 - 49, 51 - 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 - 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 94 - 135 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not Applicable Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 136 Item 9B. Other Information Not Applicable Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance (a) Item 11. Executive Compensation (b) Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters (c) Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence (d) Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services (e) Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 141 - 150 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary Not Applicable Signatures 151 - 153 ______________________ (a) Incorporated by reference to Management , Election of Directors, Governance Principles, Code of Conduct and Committees of the Board of the Directors in our definitive proxy statement for our 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2020 , which will be filed within 120 days of the end our fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 (the 2020 Proxy Statement ). (b) Incorporated by reference to Compensation Discussion and Analysis, 2019 Executive Compensation, Management Development and Compensation Committee Report and Management Development and Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and CEO Pay Ratio in the 2020 Proxy Statement. (c) Incorporated by reference to Beneficial Ownership and Equity Compensation Plan Information in the 2020 Proxy Statement. (d) Incorporated by reference to Related Person Transactions, Election of Directors and Committees of the Board of Directors in the 2020 Proxy Statement. (e) Incorporated by reference to Independent Auditor in the 2020 Proxy Statement. 4 Certain Defined Terms Except as the context may otherwise require in this report, references to: we, us, our and the Company are to SYNCHRONY FINANCIAL and its subsidiaries; Synchrony are to SYNCHRONY FINANCIAL only; the Bank are to Synchrony Bank (a subsidiary of Synchrony); the Board of Directors or Board are to Synchrony s board of directors; GE are to General Electric Company and its subsidiaries; the Tax Act are to P.L. 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, signed into law on December 22, 2017; and FICO are to a credit score developed by Fair Isaac Co., which is widely used as a means of evaluating the likelihood that credit users will pay their obligations. We provide a range of credit products through programs we have established with a diverse group of national and regional retailers, local merchants, manufacturers, buying groups, industry associations and healthcare service providers, which, in our business and in this report, we refer to as our partners. The terms of the programs all require cooperative efforts between us and our partners of varying natures and degrees to establish and operate the programs. Our use of the term partners to refer to these entities is not intended to, and does not, describe our legal relationship with them, imply that a legal partnership or other relationship exists between the parties or create any legal partnership or other relationship. The average length of our relationship with respect to a specified group of partners or programs is measured on a weighted average basis by interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 for those partners or for all partners participating in a program, based on the date each partner relationship or program, as applicable, started. Information with respect to partner locations in this report is given at December 31, 2019 . Open accounts represents credit card or installment loan accounts that are not closed, blocked or more than 60 days delinquent. Unless otherwise indicated, references to loan receivables do not include loan receivables held for sale. For a description of certain other terms we use, including active account and purchase volume, see the notes to Management s Discussion and Analysis Results of Operations Other Financial and Statistical Data . There is no standard industry definition for many of these terms, and other companies may define them differently than we do. Synchrony and its logos and other trademarks referred to in this report, including, CareCredit , Quickscreen , Dual Card , Synchrony Car Care and SyPI belong to us. Solely for convenience, we refer to our trademarks in this report without the and symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights to our trademarks. Other service marks, trademarks and trade names referred to in this report are the property of their respective owners. On our website at www.synchronyfinancial.com, we make available under the "Investors-SEC Filings" menu selection, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports or amendments are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. Industry and Market Data This report contains various historical and projected financial information concerning our industry and market. Some of this information is from industry publications and other third-party sources, and other information is from our own data and market research that we commission. All of this information involves a variety of assumptions, limitations and methodologies and is inherently subject to uncertainties, and therefore you are cautioned not to give undue weight to it. Although we believe that those industry publications and other third-party sources are reliable, we have not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of any of the data from those publications or sources. 5 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Various statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as expects, intends, anticipates, plans, believes, seeks, targets, outlook, estimates, will, should, may or words of similar meaning, but these words are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management s current expectations and assumptions, and are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. As a result, actual results could differ materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, such as: the impact of macroeconomic conditions and whether industry trends we have identified develop as anticipated; retaining existing partners and attracting new partners, concentration of our revenue in a small number of Retail Card partners, promotion and support of our products by our partners, and financial performance of our partners; cyber-attacks or other security breaches; higher borrowing costs and adverse financial market conditions impacting our funding and liquidity, and any reduction in our credit ratings; our ability to grow our deposits in the future; our ability to securitize our loan receivables, occurrence of an early amortization of our securitization facilities, loss of the right to service or subservice our securitized loan receivables, and lower payment rates on our securitized loan receivables; changes in market interest rates and the impact of any margin compression; effectiveness of our risk management processes and procedures, reliance on models which may be inaccurate or misinterpreted, our ability to manage our credit risk, the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses and the accuracy of the assumptions or estimates used in preparing our financial statements; our ability to offset increases in our costs in retailer share arrangements; competition in the consumer finance industry; our concentration in the U.S. consumer credit market; our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new or enhanced products and services; our ability to realize the value of acquisitions and strategic investments; reductions in interchange fees; fraudulent activity; failure of third parties to provide various services that are important to our operations; disruptions in the operations of our and our outsourced partners' computer systems and data centers; international risks and compliance and regulatory risks and costs associated with international operations; alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of others and our ability to protect our intellectual property; litigation and regulatory actions; damage to our reputation; our ability to attract, retain and motivate key officers and employees; tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions and/or interpretations, and state sales tax rules and regulations; a material indemnification obligation to GE under the Tax Sharing and Separation Agreement with GE (the "TSSA") if we cause the split-off from GE or certain preliminary transactions to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment or in the case of certain significant transfers of our stock following the split-off; regulation, supervision, examination and enforcement of our business by governmental authorities, the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act ) and other legislative and regulatory developments and the impact of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau s (the CFPB ) regulation of our business; impact of capital adequacy rules and liquidity requirements; restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock, and restrictions that limit the Bank s ability to pay dividends to us; regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection; use of third-party vendors and ongoing third-party business relationships; and failure to comply with anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws. For the reasons described above, we caution you against relying on any forward-looking statements, which should also be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Risk Factors Relating to Regulation . You should not consider any list of such factors to be an exhaustive statement of all of the risks, uncertainties, or potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause our current expectations or beliefs to change. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as otherwise may be required by law. 6 OUR BUSINESS Our Company ____________________________________________________________________________________________ We are a premier consumer financial services company. We deliver a wide range of specialized financing programs, as well as innovative consumer banking products, across key industries including digital, retail, home, auto, travel, health and pet. We provide a range of credit products through our financing programs which we have established with a diverse group of national and regional retailers, local merchants, manufacturers, buying groups, industry associations and healthcare service providers, which we refer to as our partners. Through our partners over 410,000 locations across the United States and Canada, and their websites and mobile applications, we offer their customers a variety of credit products to finance the purchase of goods and services. During 2019 , we financed $149.4 billion of purchase volume, and at December 31, 2019 , we had $87.2 billion of loan receivables and 75.5 million active accounts. Our active accounts represent a geographically diverse group of both consumers and businesses, with an average FICO score of 719 for active accounts at December 31, 2019 . Our business benefits from longstanding and collaborative relationships with our partners, including some of the nation s leading retailers and manufacturers with well-known consumer brands, such as Lowe s and Ashley HomeStore and also leading digital partners, such as Amazon and PayPal. We believe our partner-centric business model has been successful because it aligns our interests with those of our partners and provides substantial value to both our partners and our customers. Our partners promote our credit products because they generate increased sales and strengthen customer loyalty. Our customers benefit from instant access to credit, discounts, such as cash back rewards, and promotional offers. We seek to differentiate ourselves through deep partner integration and our extensive marketing expertise. We have omni-channel (in-store, online and mobile) technology and marketing capabilities, which allow us to offer and deliver our credit products instantly to customers across multiple channels. We conduct our operations through a single business segment. Profitability and expenses, including funding costs, loan losses and operating expenses, are managed for the business as a whole. Substantially all of our operations are within the United States. We offer our credit products through three sales platforms (Retail Card, Payment Solutions and CareCredit). Those platforms are organized by the types of products we offer and the partners we work with, and are measured on interest and fees on loans, loan receivables, active accounts and other sales metrics. Retail Card is a leading provider of private label credit cards, and also provides Dual Cards, general purpose co-branded credit cards, and small and medium-sized business credit products. Payment Solutions is a leading provider of promotional financing for major consumer purchases, offering primarily private label credit cards and installment loans. CareCredit is a leading provider of promotional financing to consumers for health, veterinary and personal care procedures, services and products, including dental, vision, audiology and cosmetic. We offer our credit products primarily through our wholly-owned subsidiary, the Bank. In addition, through the Bank, we offer, directly to retail and commercial customers, a range of deposit products insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), including certificates of deposit, individual retirement accounts ( IRAs ), money market accounts and savings accounts. We also take deposits at the Bank through third-party securities brokerage firms that offer our FDIC-insured deposit products to their customers. We have significantly expanded our online direct banking operations in recent years and our deposit base serves as a source of stable and diversified low cost funding for our credit activities. At December 31, 2019 , we had $65.1 billion in deposits, which represented 77% of our total funding sources. 7 Our Sales Platforms ____________________________________________________________________________________________ We offer our credit products through three sales platforms: Retail Card, Payment Solutions and CareCredit. Set forth below is a summary of certain information relating to our Retail Card, Payment Solutions and CareCredit platforms: Retail Card Retail Card is a leading provider of private label credit cards, and also provides Dual Cards, general purpose co-branded credit cards and small and medium-sized business credit products. Retail Card accounted for $13.6 billion , or 73% , of our total interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Substantially all of the credit extended in this platform is on standard (i.e., non-promotional) terms. Retail Card s revenue primarily consists of interest and fees on our loan receivables. Other income primarily consists of interchange fees earned when our Dual Card or general purpose co-brand cards are used outside of our partners sales channels and fees paid to us by customers who purchase our debt cancellation products, less loyalty program payments. Retail Card Partners We have Retail Card programs with 25 national and regional retailers, which have approximately 10,000 retail locations and include department stores, specialty retailers, mass merchandisers and digital (multi-channel and online retailers). The average length of our relationship with our Retail Card partners is 21 years. Our oil and gas retail credit programs are no longer reported within our Retail Card sales platform and are now reported within our Payment Solutions sales platform. 8 Our five largest ongoing programs are with Retail Card partners. Based upon interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 , excluding the Walmart program, our five largest programs were: Gap, JCPenney, Lowe s, PayPal and Sam s Club. These programs accounted in aggregate for 47% of our total interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 , and 48% of loan receivables at December 31, 2019 . Our programs with Lowe's and PayPal each accounted for more than 10% of our total interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 . In October 2019, we sold $8.2 billion of receivables associated with our consumer program agreement with Walmart. The length of our relationship with each of our five largest ongoing Retail Card partners is over 15 years, and in the case of Lowe's, 40 years. The current expiration dates for these agreements range from 2022 through 2030. Within the last eighteen months, we have extended our program agreements with the majority of these key partners, including most recently our agreement announced in October 2019 to extend our program agreement with PayPal, and also to become the exclusive issuer of a Venmo co-branded consumer credit card. New and Extended Partner Programs During the year ended December 31, 2019 , in addition to our agreement with PayPal discussed above, we announced our new partnerships with Norwegian Air, and in January 2020, with Verizon, and also extended our program agreement with Dick's Sporting Goods. A total of 20 of our 25 ongoing Retail Card program agreements, now have an expiration date in 2022 or beyond. These 20 program agreements represented in the aggregate 98% of both our Retail Card interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 and of our Retail Card loan receivables at December 31, 2019 attributable to our ongoing programs. Retail Card Program Agreements Our Retail Card programs are governed by program agreements that are each negotiated separately with our partners. Although the terms of the agreements are partner-specific, and may be amended from time to time, under a typical program agreement, our partner agrees to support and promote the program to its customers, but we control credit criteria and issue credit cards to customers who qualify under those criteria. We own the underlying accounts and all loan receivables generated under the program from the time of origination. Other key provisions in the Retail Card program agreements include: 9 Term Retail Card program agreements typically have contract terms ranging from approximately five to ten years. Many program agreements have renewal clauses that provide for automatic renewal for one or more years until terminated by us or our partner. We typically seek to renew the program agreements well in advance of their termination dates. Exclusivity The program agreements typically are exclusive for the products we offer and limit our partners ability to originate or promote other private label or co-branded credit cards during the term of the agreement. Retailer Share Arrangements Most of our Retail Card program agreements contain retailer share arrangements that provide for payments to our partner if the economic performance of the program exceeds a contractually-defined threshold. Economic performance for the purposes of these arrangements is typically measured based on agreed upon program revenues (including interest income and certain other income) less agreed upon program expenses (including interest expense, provision for loan losses, retailer payments and operating expenses). We may also provide other economic benefits to our partners such as royalties on purchase volume or payments for new accounts, in some cases instead of retailer share arrangements (for example, on our co-branded credit cards). All of these arrangements align our interests and provide an additional incentive to our partners to promote our credit products. Other Economic Terms In addition to the retailer share arrangements, the program agreements typically provide that the parties will develop a marketing plan to support the program, and they set the terms by which a joint marketing budget is funded, the basic terms of the rewards program linked to the use of our product (such as opportunities to receive double rewards points for purchases made on a Retail Card product), and the allocation of costs related to the rewards program. Termination The program agreements set forth the circumstances in which a party may terminate the agreement prior to expiration. Our program agreements generally permit us and our partner to terminate the agreement prior to its scheduled termination date for various reasons, including if the other party materially breaches its obligations. Some program agreements also permit our partner to terminate the program if we fail to meet certain service levels or change certain key cardholder terms or our credit criteria, we fail to achieve certain approval rate targets with respect to approvals of new customers, we elect not to increase the program size when the outstanding loan receivables under the program reach certain thresholds, we are not adequately capitalized, certain force majeure events occur or certain changes in our ownership occur. Certain program agreements are also subject to early termination by a party if the other party has a material adverse change in its financial condition. Historically, these rights have not typically been triggered or exercised. Some of our program agreements provide that, upon termination or expiration, our partner may purchase or designate a third party to purchase the accounts and loan receivables generated with respect to its program at fair market value or a stated price, including all related customer data. Payment Solutions Payment Solutions is a leading provider of promotional financing for major consumer purchases, offering consumer choice for financing at the point of sale, including primarily private label credit cards, Dual Cards and installment loans. Payment Solutions accounted for $2.8 billion , or 15% , of our total interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Credit extended in this platform, other than for our oil and gas retail partners, is primarily promotional financing. 10 Payment Solutions revenue primarily consists of interest and fees on our loan receivables, including merchant discounts, which are fees paid to us by our partners in almost all cases to compensate us for all or part of the foregone interest income associated with promotional financing. The types of promotional financing we offer include deferred interest (interest accrues during a promotional period and becomes payable if the full purchase amount is not paid off during the promotional period), no interest (no interest on a promotional purchase) and reduced interest (interest is assessed monthly at a promotional interest rate during the promotional period). As a result, during the promotional period we do not generate interest income or generate it at a lower rate, although we continue to generate fee income relating to late fees on required minimum payments. Payment Solutions Partners In Payment Solutions, we create customized credit programs for national and regional retailers, manufacturers, buying groups, and industry associations. In addition, we create our own industry vertical programs, which are available to local, small and medium size merchants to provide financing offers to their customers. At December 31, 2019 , our Payment Solutions partners had approximately 160,000 retail locations, including oil and gas retail locations. Payment Solutions is diversified by program, with no one Payment Solutions program accounting for more than 1.3% of our total interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019 . At December 31, 2019 , the average length of our relationships with our ten largest ongoing Payment Solutions programs was 13 years. _____________________ (1) Ongoing partners. Based on interest and fees on loans for the year ended December 31, 2019. In Payment Solutions, we generally partner with sellers of big-ticket products or services (generally priced from $500 to $25,000) to consumers where our financing products and industry expertise provide strong incremental value to our partners and their customers. We also promote our programs to sellers through direct marketing activities such as industry trade publications, trade shows and sales efforts by dedicated internal and external sales teams, leveraging our existing partner network or through endorsements from manufacturers, buying groups and industry associations. Our broad array of point of sale technologies and quick enrollment process allow us to quickly and cost-effectively integrate new partners. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we expanded our Synchrony Car Care and Synchrony HOME program acceptance networks and announced our new partnerships with Grand Home Furnishings, Leisure Pro, Mor furniture for less, Samsung HVAC, Travis Industries, and Zero Motorcycles. We also extended our program agreements with BuyMax Alliance, CCA Global Partners, CFMOTO, Conn's HomePlus, Continental Tires, La-Z-Boy, P.C. Richard Son, Penske, Polaris, Rheem, Rooms To Go, and Suzuki. In January 2020, we completed the sale of loan receivables associated with the Yamaha portfolio. 11 Payment Solutions Program Agreements National and Regional Retailers and Manufacturers The terms of our program agreements with national and regional retailers and manufacturers are typically similar to the terms of our Retail Card program agreements in that we are the exclusive program provider of financing for the national or regional retailer or manufacturer with respect to the financing products that we offer. Some program agreements, however, allow the merchant to use a second source lender after an application has been submitted to us and declined, or in the case of some of our programs, may allow the manufacturer to have several primary lenders. The terms of the program agreements generally run from three to five years and are subject to termination prior to the scheduled termination date by us or our partner for various reasons, including if the other party materially breaches its obligations. Some of these programs also permit our partner to terminate the program if we change certain key cardholder terms, exceed certain pricing thresholds, certain force majeure events occur, certain changes in our ownership occur or there is a material adverse change in our financial condition. A few of these programs also may be terminated at will by the partner on specified notice to us (e.g., several months). Many of these program agreements have renewal clauses which allow the program agreement to be renewed for successive one or more year terms until terminated by us or our partner. We typically negotiate with program participants to renew the program agreements well in advance of their termination dates. We control credit criteria and issue credit cards or provide installment loans to customers who qualify under those credit criteria. We own the underlying accounts and all loan receivables generated under the program from the time of origination. Our Payment Solutions program agreements set forth the program s economic terms, including the merchant discount applicable to each promotional finance offering. We typically do not pay fees to our Payment Solutions partners pursuant to any retailer share arrangements, but in some cases we pay a sign-up fee to a partner or provide volume-based rebates on the merchant discount paid by the partner. Buying Groups and Industry Associations The programs we have established with buying groups and industry associations, such as the Home Furnishings Association, Jewelers of America and Nationwide Marketing Group, are governed by program agreements under which we make our credit products available to their respective members or dealers, but these agreements generally do not require the m