Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 10 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 10 Item 2. Properties 11 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 11 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 11 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 11 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 12 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 13 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 21 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 23 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 23 Consolidated Statements of Earnings 24 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 24 Consolidated Balance Sheets 25 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 26 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 27 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 28 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 41 Item 9B. Other Information 42 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 42 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 42 Item 11. Executive Compensation 42 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 42 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 42 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 43 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 46 STRYKER CORPORATION 2023 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Stryker Corporation (Stryker or the Company) is a global leader in medical technologies and, together with our customers, we are driven to make healthcare better. We offer innovative products and services in MedSurg, Neurotechnology, Orthopaedics and Spine that help improve patient and healthcare outcomes. Alongside our customers around the world, we impact more than 150 million patients annually. Our core values guide our behaviors and actions and are fundamental to how we execute our mission. Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a prominent orthopaedic surgeon and inventor of several medical products. Our products are sold in approximately 75 countries through company-owned subsidiaries and branches as well as third-party dealers and distributors, and include surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling, emergency medical equipment and intensive care disposable products; clinical communication and workflow solutions; neurosurgical and neurovascular devices; implants used in joint replacement and trauma surgeries; Mako Robotic-Arm Assisted technology; spinal devices; as well as other products used in a variety of medical specialties. Most of our products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities. As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Stryker," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Stryker Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Business Segments and Geographic Information We segregate our operations into two reportable business segments: (i) MedSurg and Neurotechnology and (ii) Orthopaedics and Spine. Financial information regarding our reportable business segments and certain geographic information is included under "Consolidated Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Sales by Reportable Segment 2023 2022 2021 MedSurg and Neurotechnology $ 11,836 58 % $ 10,611 58 % $ 9,538 56 % Orthopaedics and Spine 8,662 42 7,838 42 7,570 44 Total $ 20,498 100 % $ 18,449 100 % $ 17,108 100 % MedSurg and Neurotechnology MedSurg products include surgical equipment, patient and caregiver safety technologies, and navigation systems (Instruments), endoscopic and communications systems and reprocessed and remanufactured medical devices (Endoscopy), and patient handling, emergency medical equipment, intensive care disposable products and clinical communication and workflow solutions (Medical). Neurotechnology includes neurosurgical, neurovascular and craniomaxillofacial implant products. Our neurotechnology offering includes products used for minimally invasive endovascular procedures; a comprehensive line of products for traditional brain and open skull based surgical procedures; orthobiologic and biosurgery products, including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation products (Neuro Cranial); and minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke (Neurovascular). The craniomaxillofacial implant offering includes cranial, maxillofacial and chest wall devices as well as dural substitutes and sealants. We are one of five leading global competitors in Instruments; the other four being Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer), Medtronic plc (Medtronic), Johnson Johnson and ConMed Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of CONMED Corporation). We are one of seven leading global competitors in Endoscopy; the other six being Karl Storz GmbH Co., Olympus Optical Co. Ltd., Smith Nephew plc (Smith Nephew), ConMed Linvatec, Arthrex, Inc. and STERIS plc. We are one of five leading global competitors in Medical; the other four being Baxter International Inc., Zoll Medical Corporation, Medline Industries and Ferno-Washington, Inc. We are one of five leading global competitors in Neurotechnology; the other four being Medtronic, Johnson Johnson, Terumo Corporation and Penumbra, Inc. Composition of MedSurg and Neurotechnology Net Sales 2023 2022 2021 Instruments $ 2,569 22 % $ 2,279 21 % $ 2,111 22 % Endoscopy 3,033 26 2,725 26 2,418 25 Medical 3,459 29 3,031 29 2,607 27 Neurovascular 1,226 10 1,200 11 1,188 13 Neuro Cranial 1,549 13 1,376 13 1,214 13 Total $ 11,836 100 % $ 10,611 100 % $ 9,538 100 % In 2023 Instruments launched the Neptune S, which is the only constantly closed low-fluid waste management system on the market. Instruments also saw continued momentum from the launch of the System 9 total joint power tool. Endoscopy expanded its product offering with the launch of the 4K 1788 Camera platform that features several enhancements for a broader range of clinical applications and specialties, including urology, neurology and ear, nose and throat. In addition, 1788 can be used to visualize indocyanine green and Cytalux. Medical launched the Xpedition powered stair chair, designed with an integrated workflow for first responders, maintaining the same storage footprint as Stryker's Stair-PRO and enhanced user interface for ease of use. Xpedition allows caregivers to safely and ergonomically move patients over a variety of terrains. Neurovascular completed the acquisition of Cerus Endovascular Limited (Cerus), a leader in the design and development of neurointerventional devices for the treatment of intracranial aneurysms. The acquisition of Cerus is highly complementary to our Neurovascular business and strengthens our hemorrhagic portfolio globally. Neurovascular also launched the Target Tetra coil in the United States, Japan, Korea and Europe, Middle East, Africa for the treatment of small aneurysms and the Vecta 46 Intermediate Catheter in the United States, Japan and Korea. Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 1 STRYKER CORPORATION 2023 FORM 10-K Orthopaedics and Spine Orthopaedics products consist primarily of implants used in total joint replacements, such as hip, knee and shoulder, and trauma and extremities surgeries. We bring patients and physicians advanced implant designs and specialized instrumentation that make orthopaedic surgery and recovery simpler, faster and more effective. We support surgeons with the technology and services they need as they develop new surgical techniques. The Mako Robotic-Arm Assisted Surgical System was designed to help surgeons provide patients with a personalized surgical experience based on their specific diagnosis and anatomy. The Mako System currently offers three applications supporting Partial Knee, Total Hip and Total Knee procedures. Mako is the only robotic-arm assisted technology enabled by 3D CT-based pre-operative planning and, with AccuStop haptic technology, Mako provides surgeons the ability to know more about their patients' anatomy so they can cut less in bone preparation and implant placement with intra-operative haptic guidance. Our spinal implant offering includes cervical and thoracolumbar systems that include fixation, minimally invasive and interbody systems used in spinal injury, complex spine and degenerative therapies. Our spine enabling technologies portfolio includes best in class imaging solutions, image-guided surgical technology, patient specific implants and digital health solutions supporting surgeons and their patients throughout the continuum of care. We are one of four leading global competitors for joint replacement and trauma and extremities products and robotics; the other three being Zimmer, DePuy Synthes (a Johnson Johnson company) and Smith Nephew. We are one of four leading global competitors in Spine; the other three being Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic), Globus Medical, Inc. (including Nuvasive) and DePuy Synthes. Composition of Orthopaedics and Spine Net Sales 2023 2022 2021 Knees $ 2,273 26 % $ 1,997 25 % $ 1,848 25 % Hips 1,544 18 1,413 18 1,342 18 Trauma and Extremities 3,147 36 2,807 36 2,664 35 Spine 1,189 14 1,146 15 1,167 15 Other 509 6 475 6 549 7 Total $ 8,662 100 % $ 7,838 100 % $ 7,570 100 % In 2023 we continued our full commercial launch of the Insignia hip stem. Insignia received approval in Japan from the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency and clinical cases occurred in December 2023. With the addition of Japan, Insignia is now being used clinically in six countries worldwide (United States, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore and Hong Kong). We also saw our first clinical use of the Triathlon Hinge revision knee system in August 2023. The Hinge product helps restore patient mobility in challenging cases and we anticipate moving towards full commercial launch in 2024. In 2023 we celebrated the 10th anniversary of the Triathlon Tritanium Baseplate. Since its introduction in 2013, Triathlon Cementless, which includes the Triathlon Tritanium Baseplate, has delivered a decade of positive patient impact, demonstrated impressive survivorship data and has become a trusted solution for surgeons across the globe. In 2023 we celebrated the 10-year anniversary of the Mako Surgical Corp. acquisition and the Mako SmartRobotics technology. Over the past ten years, this groundbreaking technology has transformed the orthopaedics landscape, resulting in tremendous patient impact for surgeons and their patients. Additionally, we reached the milestone of 1 million Mako SmartRobotics procedures performed globally. Raw Materials and Inventory Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available from multiple sources; however, certain of our raw materials are currently sourced from single suppliers. Substantially all products we manufacture are stocked in inventory, while certain MedSurg products are assembled to order. Patents and Trademarks Patents and trademarks are significant to our business to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. We seek to obtain patent protection on our products whenever appropriate for protecting our competitive advantage. On December 31, 2023 we owned approximately 5,200 United States patents and approximately 7,700 patents in other countries. Seasonality Our business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is typically lower in the summer months, and sales of capital equipment are generally higher in the fourth quarter. Competition In each of our product lines we compete with local and global companies. The development of innovative products is important to our success in all areas of our business. Competition in research involving the development and improvement of new and existing products and processes is particularly significant. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and maintaining sales forces. We believe our commitment to innovation, quality and service and our reputation differentiates us in the highly competitive product categories in which we operate and enables us to compete effectively. We believe that our competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on our ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. Regulation Our businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. We are required to comply with the unique regulatory requirements of each country in which we market and sell our products. In the United States the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its subsequent amendments and the regulations issued and proposed thereunder provide for federal regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of our products. In addition, state licensing requirements often apply to certain of our business operations and products. On the federal level, many of our new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification submitted as a 510(k) and review by the FDA before we begin marketing them. Certain of our products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pre-market approval applications for specific surgical indications. Certain of our products also fall under other FDA classifications, such as drugs and Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products. The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for our product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 2 STRYKER CORPORATION 2023 FORM 10-K state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacture and marketing of our products. The European Union enacted the European Union Medical Device Regulation in May 2017 with an original effective date of May 2021, which imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the areas of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems, labeling and post-market surveillance. Extended transition timelines were published in 2023 which range from May 2026 through December 2028 depending on the type of device and our implementation is on track to meet these timelines. Initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets we do business. These initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business. In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry are scrutinized, particularly in the United States, by federal and state government agencies. The resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. Environment We are subject to various rules and regulation in the United States and internationally related to the protection of human health and the environment. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We believe our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to comply, in all material respects, with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We do not expect compliance with these requirements to have a material effect on purchases of property, plant and equipment, cash flows, net earnings or competitive position. Employees On December 31, 2023 we had approximately 52,000 employees globally, with approximately 27,000 employees in the United States. Our talented employees are an integral reason for our standing as a global leader in medical technologies where, together with our customers, we are driven to make healthcare better. Our company values of integrity, accountability, people and performance are a key component of that mission. Our people, as one of our core values, continue to be a key focus. Our success depends on our ability to attract the best talent. To do so, we continue to focus on creating and maintaining a great workplace. We believe in attracting the right people, maintaining and building employee engagement and developing our employees. We believe when people are able to do what they do best, they will look forward to coming to work and, in turn, will deliver great business results. Our leadership team and Board of Directors receive regular updates on our people and culture strategy and provide feedback on our strategy and goals, including alignment to our mission and values, peer benchmarking and stakeholder feedback. Employee Development Our employee development is extensive and exists at all levels of the organization, including company-wide training on our Code of Conduct, job-related technical training and management and leadership training. Our development programs include on-the-job learning, coaching and mentoring, management and leadership development courses, team building and collaboration training and immersive experiences with expert partners. We encourage all employees to establish development objectives, in partnership with their manager, to help employees gain the needed development experience to grow their careers. Employee Engagement An engaged workplace culture that drives performance and business outcomes is central to our mission. Listening to and learning from our employees forms the foundation of an engaging culture. More than 90% of our employees participate in our annual engagement survey, which provides a valued platform for listening and allows us to take action based on the feedback collected. We supplement our annual engagement survey with targeted pulse surveys to gather feedback on topics relevant to the current climate. In addition, we establish forums for collecting qualitative feedback to gain insights and identify actions we can take so that employees feel included, engaged and able to achieve their full potential. We also provide tools and resources that enable managers and teams to act on the insights we gain from our surveys and to drive employee engagement and strong business outcomes. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE I) An essential part of our culture is respecting each individual s strengths and values. Building on this foundation, we are focused on maintaining an inclusive, engaging work environment and prioritizing DE I in keeping with our values of integrity and people. Our DE I strategy is centered around these three commitments: Strengthen the diversity of our workforce Advance a culture of inclusion, engagement and belonging Maximize the power of inclusion to drive innovation and growth We are advancing our commitments through the following actions, among others: Increasing access to talent through strategic partnerships and campaigns Growing and engaging talent with a range of opportunities to learn and develop Aligning our employee resource groups to focus on creating community and belonging As of December 31, 2023 approximately 38.1% of our employees were women and 27.9% of our employees in the United States identified as racially or ethnically diverse. Attracting and Hiring We understand that every employee drives our success. We focus on attracting, identifying and selecting strong candidates who will be successful at Stryker and ensuring that each person we hire brings the talent, expertise and passion we need to continue to be successful. Health and Safety Ensuring our employees' safety is a top priority. It is a responsibility that we share throughout the company and one that has evolved to meet the needs of our workforce. Employees' safety risks vary depending on the roles they perform, so we tailor our safety efforts accordingly. Competitive Pay and Benefits Our compensation and benefits programs are designed to attract and retain top talent and to incentivize performance and alignment to our mission and values. Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 3 STRYKER CORPORATION 2023 FORM 10-K We offer market-competitive base pay and benefits to our employees in countries around the world. We regularly evaluate our compensation and benefit offerings and levels, using recognized outside consulting firms to ensure internal fairness and competitiveness in our offerings. Most of our employees also have variable components to their compensation packages that reward employees based on individual, business unit and/or company-wide performance. Our proxy statement provides more detail on the competitive compensation programs we offer. Information about our Executive Officers As of January 31, 2024 Name Age Title First Became an Executive Officer Kevin A. Lobo 58 Chair, Chief Executive Officer and President 2011 Yin C. Becker 60 Vice President, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer 2016 William E. Berry Jr. 58 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer 2014 Glenn S. Boehnlein 62 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2016 M. Kathryn Fink 54 Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer 2016 Robert S. Fletcher 53 Vice President, Chief Legal Officer 2019 Viju S. Menon 56 Group President, Global Quality and Operations 2018 J. Andrew Pierce 50 Group President, MedSurg and Neurotechnology 2021 Spencer S. Stiles 47 Group President, Orthopaedics and Spine 2021 Each of our executive officers was elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders in 2024 or until a successor is chosen and qualified or until his or her resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers held the position above or served Stryker in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years, except for Mr. Fletcher. Prior to joining Stryker in April 2019, Mr. Fletcher held various legal leadership roles with Johnson Johnson for the previous 14 years, most recently as the Worldwide Vice President, Litigation. Available Information Our main corporate website address is www.stryker.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Copies of our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available free of charge on our website within the "Investors Relations" section as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov .