Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 9 Item 2. Properties 9 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 9 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 9 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 9 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 11 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 12 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 19 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 20 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 20 Consolidated Statements of Earnings 22 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 22 Consolidated Balance Sheets 23 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 24 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 25 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 26 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 37 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 38 Item 9B. Other Information 39 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 39 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 39 Item 11. Executive Compensation 39 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 39 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 39 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 39 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 40 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 43 STRYKER CORPORATION 2021 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Stryker Corporation (Stryker or the Company) is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and, together with its customers, is driven to make healthcare better. Stryker offers innovative products and services in Medical and Surgical, Neurotechnology, Orthopaedics and Spine that help improve patient and hospital outcomes. Our core values guide our behaviors and actions and are fundamental to how we execute our mission. Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a prominent orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several medical products. Our products are sold in over 75 countries through company-owned subsidiaries and branches, as well as, third-party dealers and distributors, and include surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling, emergency medical equipment and intensive care disposable products; neurosurgical and neurovascular devices; implants used in joint replacement and trauma surgeries; Mako Robotic-Arm Assisted technology; spinal devices; as well as other products used in a variety of medical specialties. In the United States most of our products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities. As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Stryker," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Stryker Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Business Segments and Geographic Information Effective December 31, 2021 we changed our reportable business segments to (i) MedSurg and Neurotechnology and (ii) Orthopaedics and Spine to align to our new internal reporting structure. We have reflected this change in all historical periods presented. Financial information regarding our reportable business segments and certain geographic information is included under "Consolidated Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Sales by Reportable Segment 2021 2020 2019 MedSurg and Neurotechnology $ 9,538 56 % $ 8,345 58 % $ 8,475 57 % Orthopaedics and Spine 7,570 44 6,006 42 6,409 43 Total $ 17,108 100 % $ 14,351 100 % $ 14,884 100 % MedSurg and Neurotechnology MedSurg products include surgical equipment, patient and caregiver safety technologies, and navigation systems (Instruments), endoscopic and communications systems (Endoscopy), patient handling, emergency medical equipment and intensive care disposable products (Medical), reprocessed and remanufactured medical devices, and other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties. Neurotechnology includes neurosurgical, neurovascular and craniomaxillofacial implant products. Our neurotechnology offering includes products used for minimally invasive endovascular procedures; a comprehensive line of products for traditional brain and open skull based surgical procedures; orthobiologic and biosurgery products, including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation products (Neuro Cranial); and minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke (Neurovascular). The craniomaxillofacial implant offering includes cranial, maxillofacial, and chest wall devices, as well as, dural substitutes and sealants. We are one of five leading global competitors in Instruments; the other four being Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer), Medtronic plc., Johnson Johnson and ConMed Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of CONMED Corporation). In Endoscopy we compete with Karl Storz GmbH Co., Olympus Optical Co. Ltd., Smith Nephew plc (Smith Nephew), ConMed Linvatec, Arthrex, Inc. and STERIS plc. In Medical our primary competitors are Baxter/Hill-Rom, Inc., Zoll Medical Corporation, Medline Industries and Ferno-Washington, Inc. Stryker is also one of five leading global competitors in Neurotechnology; the other four being Medtronic, Johnson Johnson, Terumo Corporation and Penumbra, Inc. Composition of MedSurg and Neurotechnology Net Sales 2021 2020 2019 Instruments $ 2,111 22 % $ 1,863 22 % $ 1,959 23 % Endoscopy 2,141 22 1,763 21 1,983 23 Medical 2,607 27 2,524 30 2,264 27 Neurovascular 1,188 13 973 12 924 11 Neuro Cranial 1,214 13 972 12 1,059 13 Other 277 3 250 3 286 3 Total $ 9,538 100 % $ 8,345 100 % $ 8,475 100 % In 2021 Instruments launched a T7 helmet with increased comfort and disposables in orthopaedic instruments, and had strong second year sales of TPX next generation corded power tools for conducting small bone orthopaedic procedures. Endoscopy launched the SLX surgical light portfolio to improve safety in the operating room through customized lighting. In addition, Endoscopy launched the InSpace balloon, the industry s first balloon implant for arthroscopic treatment of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears (MIRCTs). Medical increased penetration and focus in their broad portfolio with significant investment in their specialized sales forces. In 2021 we furthered our expansion into the global flow diversion market with the continued launch of the next generation Surpass Evolve Flow Diverter in the United States and Brazil, as well as the Surpass Streamline Flow Diverter in China and Japan. Also in 2021 we continued the launches of the Trevo NXT and Vecta Aspiration Catheter families, as well as the next generation of the market leading Synchro guidewire in multiple regions of the world. Orthopaedics and Spine Orthopaedics products consist primarily of implants used in total joint replacements, such as hip, knee and shoulder, and trauma and extremities surgeries. We bring patients and physicians advanced implant designs and specialized instrumentation that make orthopaedic surgery and recovery simpler, faster and more effective. We support surgeons with the technology and services they need as they develop new surgical techniques. The Mako Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 1 STRYKER CORPORATION 2021 FORM 10-K Robotic-Arm Assisted Surgical System was designed to help surgeons provide patients with a personalized surgical experience based on their specific diagnosis and anatomy. The Mako System currently offers three applications supporting Partial Knee, Total Hip and Total Knee procedures. Mako is the only robotic-arm assisted technology enabled by 3D CT-based pre-operative planning and, with AccuStop haptic technology, Mako provides surgeons the ability to know more about their patients' anatomy so they can cut less in bone preparation and implant placement with intra-operative haptic guidance. Our spinal implant offering includes cervical and thoracolumbar systems that include fixation, minimally invasive and interbody systems used in spinal injury, complex spine and degenerative therapies. Our spine enabling technologies portfolio includes best in class imaging solutions, image-guided surgical technology, patient specific implants and digital health solutions supporting surgeons and their patients throughout the continuum of care. We are one of four leading global competitors for joint replacement and trauma and extremities products and robotics; the other three being Zimmer, DePuy Synthes (a Johnson Johnson company) and Smith Nephew. We are one of five leading global competitors in Spine; the other four being Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic), DePuy Synthes, Nuvasive, Inc. and Globus Medical, Inc. Composition of Orthopaedics and Spine Net Sales 2021 2020 2019 Knees $ 1,848 25 % $ 1,567 26 % $ 1,815 28 % Hips 1,342 18 1,206 20 1,383 22 Trauma and Extremities 2,664 35 1,722 29 1,639 26 Spine 1,167 15 1,047 17 1,157 18 Other 549 7 464 8 415 6 Total $ 7,570 100 % $ 6,006 100 % $ 6,409 100 % In 2021 we moved to full commercial launch in the United States, and first clinical use in the European Union and Canada, of the new Tornier Perform Humeral shoulder implant system for anatomic and reverse shoulder arthroplasty. United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval was received in 2020, Health Canada approval was received in the first quarter of 2021 and European Union approval is expected in early 2022. Raw Materials and Inventory Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available from multiple sources; however, certain of our raw materials are currently sourced from single suppliers. Substantially all products we manufacture are stocked in inventory, while certain MedSurg products are assembled to order. Where some electronic components have had limited availability due to current global shortages, we have worked closely with suppliers to ensure this temporary supply constraint did not have a material adverse effect on continuity of supply. Patents and Trademarks Patents and trademarks are significant to our business to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. We seek to obtain patent protection on our products whenever appropriate for protecting our competitive advantage. On December 31, 2021 we owned approximately 4,458 United States patents and approximately 7,199 patents in other countries. Seasonality Our business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is typically lower in the summer months, and sales of capital equipment are generally higher in the fourth quarter. The dollar amount of customer backlog orders at any given time is not meaningful to an understanding of our business taken as a whole. Competition In each of our product lines we compete with local and global companies. The development of new and innovative products is important to our success in all areas of our business. Competition in research involving the development and improvement of new and existing products and processes is particularly significant. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and maintaining sales forces. We believe our commitment to innovation, quality and service and our reputation differentiates us in the highly competitive product categories in which we operate and enables us to compete effectively. We believe that our competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on our ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. Regulation Our businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. In the United States the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its subsequent amendments and the regulations issued and proposed thereunder provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of our products. Many of our new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification submitted as a 510(k) and review by the FDA before we begin marketing them. Certain of our products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pre-market approval (PMA) applications for specific surgical indications. Certain of our products also fall under other FDA classifications, such as drugs and Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products. The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for our product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacture and marketing of our products. The European Union enacted the European Union Medical Device Regulation in May 2017 with an effective date of May 2021, which imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the areas of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems, labeling and post-market surveillance. Additionally, as a result of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (Brexit), new medical device regulations were released by the United Kingdom, which became effective January 1, 2021. A gap analysis against the prior Medical Device Directive (MDD) and a compliance plan are being implemented for both the European Union and United Kingdom regulations to ensure compliance and minimize business disruption. Finally, we are required to comply with the unique regulatory requirements of each country within which we market and sell our products. For example, China's National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) has recently promulgated more stringent regulatory requirements. Initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business. These initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 2 STRYKER CORPORATION 2021 FORM 10-K price regulation and competitive pricing. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business. In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry are scrutinized, particularly in the United States, by federal and state government agencies. The resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. Environment We are subject to various rules and regulation in the United States and internationally related to the protection of human health and the environment. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We believe our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to comply, in all material respects, with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We do not expect compliance with these requirements to have a material effect on purchases of property, plant and equipment, cash flows, net earnings or competitive position. Employees On December 31, 2021 we had approximately 46,000 employees globally, with approximately 25,000 employees in the United States. Our talented employees are an integral reason for our standing as one of the world's leading medical technology companies where, together with our customers, we are driven to make healthcare better. Our company values of integrity, accountability, people and performance are a key component of that mission. Our people, as one of our core values, continue to be a key focus. Our success is dependent on our ability to attract the best talent that reflects our diverse communities. To do so, we continue to focus on the basics of creating a great workplace. We believe in attracting the right people, maintaining and building employee engagement and developing our employees. We believe when people are able to do what they do best, they will look forward to coming to work and, in turn, will deliver great business results. Stryker is made up of hardworking, results-oriented people who are driven to go above and beyond for our customers. Our leadership team and Board of Directors receive regular updates on our people and culture strategy and provide feedback on our strategy and goals, including alignment to mission and values, peer benchmarking and stakeholder feedback. Employee Development Our employee development is extensive and exists at all levels of the organization, including company-wide training on our Code of Conduct, job-related technical training and management and leadership training. Our development programs include on-the-job learning, coaching and mentoring, management and leadership development courses, team building and collaboration training and immersive experiences with expert partners. We encourage all employees to establish individual development plans, in partnership with their manager, to help employees gain the needed development experience to grow their careers. Employee Engagement An engaged workplace culture that drives performance and business outcomes is central to our mission. Listening to and learning from our employees forms the foundation of an engaging culture. More than 90% of our global employees participate in our annual engagement survey, which provides a valued platform for listening and allows us to take action based on the feedback collected. We supplement our annual engagement survey with targeted pulse surveys to gather feedback on topics relevant to the current climate. Additionally, we establish forums for collecting qualitative feedback to gain insights and identify actions we can take to ensure all employees feel included, engaged and able to achieve their full potential. We also provide tools and resources that enable managers and teams to act on the insights we gain from our surveys and to drive employee engagement and strong business outcomes. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE I) An essential part of our culture is respecting each individual s strengths and values. Building on this foundation, we are focused on maintaining an inclusive, engaging work environment and prioritizing DE I in keeping with our values of integrity and people. Our DE I strategy is centered around these three commitments: Strengthen the diversity of our workforce Advance a culture of inclusion, engagement and belonging Maximize the power of inclusion to drive innovation and growth We are advancing our commitments through the following actions, among others: Holding leadership accountable through transparent data, performance objectives and inclusion in our business review process Engaging and inspiring all talent and empowering every employee to take action Developing our people and processes by removing barriers and optimizing the power of diverse backgrounds, talents and perspectives Attracting a diverse talent pool through focused outreach and ensuring an objective hiring process Advancing our employee resource groups (ERGs) to expand reach through executive leadership, global presence, funding and aligned strategies Positively impacting our customers and communities through building and strengthening external partnerships As of December 31, 2021, approximately 36.6% of our global employees were women and 26.0% of our employees in the United States identified as racially or ethnically diverse. Attracting and Hiring We understand that every employee drives our success. We focus on attracting, identifying and selecting strong candidates who will be successful at Stryker and ensuring that each person we hire brings the talent, expertise and passion we need to continue to be successful. Health and Safety Ensuring our employees' safety is a top priority. It is a responsibility that we share throughout the company and one that has evolved to meet the needs of our workforce during the pandemic. Employees' safety risks vary depending on the roles they perform, so we tailor our safety efforts accordingly. Competitive Pay and Benefits Our compensation and benefits programs are designed to attract and retain top talent and to incentivize performance and alignment to our mission and values. We offer market-competitive base pay and benefits to our employees in countries around the world. We regularly evaluate our compensation and benefit offerings and levels, using Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 3 STRYKER CORPORATION 2021 FORM 10-K recognized outside consulting firms to ensure fairness and competitiveness in our offerings. Most of our employees also have variable components to their compensation packages that reward employees based on individual, business unit and/or company-wide performance. Our proxy statement provides more detail on the competitive compensation programs we offer. Information about our Executive Officers As of January 31, 2022 Name Age Title First Became an Executive Officer Kevin A. Lobo 56 Chair, Chief Executive Officer and President 2011 Yin C. Becker 58 Vice President, Communications, Public Affairs and Corporate Marketing 2016 William E. Berry Jr. 56 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer 2014 Glenn S. Boehnlein 60 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2016 M. Kathryn Fink 52 Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer 2016 Robert S. Fletcher 51 Vice President, Chief Legal Officer 2019 Viju S. Menon 54 Group President, Global Quality and Operations 2018 J. Andrew Pierce 48 Group President, MedSurg and Neurotechnology 2021 Spencer S. Stiles 45 Group President, Orthopaedics and Spine 2021 Each of our executive officers was elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders in 2022 or until a successor is chosen and qualified or until his or her resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers held the position above or served Stryker in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years, except for Mr. Fletcher and Mr. Menon. Prior to joining Stryker in April 2019, Mr. Fletcher held various legal leadership roles with Johnson Johnson for the previous 14 years, most recently as the Worldwide Vice President, Litigation. Prior to joining Stryker in April 2018, Mr. Menon held various senior supply chain leadership roles with Verizon Communications Inc. during the previous eight years, most recently as the Chief Supply Chain Officer. Available Information Our main corporate website address is www.stryker.com. Copies of our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available free of charge on our website within the "Investors Relations" section as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov .