Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 118 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 118 Item 9B. Other Information 119 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 120 Item 11. Executive Compensation 120 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 120 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 120 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 120 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits 120 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 126 Signatures PART I Item 1. Business Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, Sysco, or the company as used in this Form 10-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions. Overview Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, is the largest global distributor of food and related products primarily to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry. We provided products and related services to over 625,000 customer locations, including restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers during fiscal 2020. Founded in 1969, Sysco commenced operations as a public company in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged their stock for Sysco common stock. Since our formation, we have grown from $115 million to $52.9 billion in annual sales, both through internal expansion of existing operations and through acquisitions. Sysco s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending June 27, 2020 for fiscal 2020, June 29, 2019 for fiscal 2019 and June 30, 2018 for fiscal 2018. We will have a 53-week year ending June 26, 2021 for fiscal 2021. Sysco Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware. The address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099, (281) 584-1390. This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed or furnished by Sysco pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available free of charge on Sysco s website at www.sysco.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Reporting Segments Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our primary operations are located in North America and Europe. Under the accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have aggregated certain operating segments into three reportable segments. Other financial information is attributable to our other operating segments that do not meet the quantitative disclosure thresholds. U.S. Foodservice Operations primarily includes U.S. Broadline operations, which distribute a full line of food products, including custom-cut meat, seafood, specialty produce, specialty imports and a wide variety of non-food products; International Foodservice Operations includes operations in the Americas and Europe, which distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products. The Americas primarily consists of operations in Canada, Bahamas, Mexico, Costa Rica and Panama, as well as our operations that distribute to international customers. Our European operations primarily consist of operations in the United Kingdom (U.K.), France, Ireland and Sweden; SYGMA our U.S. customized distribution subsidiary; and Other primarily our hotel supply operations. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both traditional and chain restaurant customers, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served. SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. Selected financial data for each of our reportable segments, as well as financial information concerning geographic areas, can be found in Note 22, Business Segment Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 1 Customers and Products Sysco s customers in the foodservice industry include restaurants, hospitals and nursing homes, schools and colleges, hotels and motels, industrial caterers and other similar venues where foodservice products are served. Services to our customers are supported by similar physical facilities, vehicles, material handling equipment and techniques, and administrative and operating staffs. The products we distribute include: a full line of frozen foods, such as meats, seafood, fully prepared entr es, fruits, vegetables and desserts; a full line of canned and dry foods; fresh meats and seafood; dairy products; beverage products; imported specialties; and fresh produce. We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including: paper products such as disposable napkins, plates and cups; tableware such as china and silverware; cookware such as pots, pans and utensils; restaurant and kitchen equipment and supplies; and cleaning supplies. A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product categories during the last three years is presented below: Principal product categories 2020 2019 2018 Fresh and frozen meats 19 % 19 % 20 % Canned and dry products 16 17 17 Frozen fruits, vegetables, bakery and other 15 15 15 Poultry 10 10 10 Dairy products 10 10 10 Fresh produce 9 8 8 Paper and disposables 7 7 7 Seafood 5 6 6 Beverage products 4 4 3 Other (1) 5 4 4 Totals 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Other sales relate to non-food products, including textiles and amenities for our hotel supply business, equipment and subscription sales for our Sysco Labs business, and other janitorial products, medical supplies and smallwares. Our distribution centers, which we refer to as operating companies, distribute branded merchandise, as well as products packaged under our private brands. Products packaged under our private brands have been manufactured for Sysco according to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team. In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements. We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, competitive pricing, customer service and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in the marketing and distribution of foodservice products to our customers. Our operating companies offer daily delivery to certain customer locations and have the capability of delivering special orders on short notice. Through the sales and marketing representatives and support staff of Sysco and our operating companies, we stay informed of the needs of our customers and acquaint them with new products and services. Our operating companies also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice 2 distribution, such as providing customers with product usage reports and other data, menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in inventory control, as well as access to various third-party services designed to add value to our customers businesses. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of Sysco s total sales for the fiscal year ended June 27, 2020. We estimate that our sales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows: Type of Customer 2020 2019 2018 Restaurants 62 % 62 % 62 % Healthcare 9 8 9 Education, government 8 9 8 Travel and leisure 7 9 8 Other (1) 14 12 13 Totals 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Other includes cafeterias that are not stand-alone restaurants, bakeries, caterers, churches, civic and fraternal organizations, vending distributors, other distributors and international exports, as well as retail food sales and logistics services. None of these types of customers, as a group, exceeded 5% of total sales in any of the years for which information is presented. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, our industry and business have been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, governmental authorities in many countries in which we operate, and in which our customers are present and suppliers operate, have imposed mandatory closures, sought voluntary closures and imposed restrictions on, or advisories with respect to, travel, business operations and public gatherings or interactions. Among other matters, these actions have required or strongly urged various venues where foodservice products are served, including restaurants, schools, hotels and cruise liners, to reduce or discontinue operations, which have negatively affected demand in the foodservice industry, including demand for our products and services. Our industry is considered an essential service, so we have continued to operate. Immediately after the onset of the crisis, Sysco took action to ensure liquidity, reduce variable and structural costs and pivot our business to maximize sales during a period of disruption. During the last couple of weeks of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, our business declined significantly from the time that shelter in place orders were issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We experienced declines in sales to the majority of our customers, with the exception of certain customers in the healthcare segment. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, however, we experienced sequential weekly improvements with the reopening of in-restaurant dining. The exit rate of our sales as of the end of fiscal 2020 was a decline of approximately 30% compared to the end of fiscal 2019. In July 2020, as COVID-19 cases began increasing in certain locations, the business recovery flattened; however, we have experienced weekly improvements in sales again in August 2020. Sources of Supply We purchase from thousands of suppliers, both domestic and international, none of which individually accounts for more than 10% of our purchases. These suppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise, as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers. We also provide specialty and seasonal products from small to mid-sized producers to meet a growing demand for locally sourced products. Our locally sourced products, including produce, meats, cheese and other products, help differentiate our customers offerings, satisfy demands for new products, and support local communities. Purchasing is generally carried out through both centrally developed purchasing programs, domestically and internationally, and direct purchasing programs established by our various operating companies. We administer a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. The program covers the purchasing and marketing of branded merchandise, as well as products from a number of national brand suppliers, encompassing substantially all product lines. Some of our products are purchased internationally within global procurement centers in order to build strategic relationships with international suppliers and to optimize our supply chain network. Sysco s operating companies purchase product from the suppliers participating in these consolidated programs and from other suppliers, although Sysco Brand products are only available to the operating companies 3 through these consolidated programs. We also focus on increasing profitability by lowering operating costs and by lowering aggregate inventory levels, which reduces future facility expansion needs at our Broadline operating companies, while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers. Working Capital Practices Our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings. See the discussion in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources regarding our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds. We continue to be in a strong financial position based on our balance sheet and our operating cash flows; however, our liquidity and capital resources have been significantly and negatively impacted by the reduction in sales volume resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Our working capital needs have been reduced and continue to decline due to decreased demand, and we are actively working with customers to receive payments on receivables, optimizing our inventory levels and maximizing our payment terms with vendors. We believe these actions will help to partially offset the unfavorable impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our cash flows from operations. We extend credit terms to our customers that can vary from cash on delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of each customer s credit worthiness. We monitor each customer s account and will suspend shipments if necessary. A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of when customer orders are placed. We generally maintain inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand. The level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand. We also make purchases of additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities. We take advantage of suppliers cash discounts where appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from our suppliers ranging from weekly up to 65 days. Corporate Headquarters Our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our operating companies and performs support activities for employees, suppliers and customers. Members of this group possess experience and expertise in, among other areas, customer and vendor contract administration, accounting and finance, treasury, legal, information technology, payroll and employee benefits, risk management and insurance, sales and marketing, merchandising, inbound logistics, human resources, strategy and tax compliance services. The corporate office also makes available supply chain expertise, such as in warehousing and distribution services, which provide assistance in operational best practices, including space utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and work flow. Capital Improvements During fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, $720.4 million, $692.4 million and $687.8 million, respectively, were invested in facilities, delivery fleet, technology and other capital asset enhancements. From time to time, we dispose of assets in the normal course of business; we consider proceeds from these asset sales to be an offset to capital expenditures. During fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, were $691.7 million, $671.5 million and $665.6 million, respectively. Capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, as a percentage of sales during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 were 1.3%, 1.1% and 1.1%, respectively. In order to preserve our liquidity in response to the COVID-19 crisis, we have reduced our expected capital expenditures by eliminating capital projects that are not urgently needed for our business and were not significantly underway. During the three years ended June 27, 2020, capital expenditures were financed primarily by internally generated funds, our commercial paper program and bank and other borrowings. We expect to finance our fiscal 2021 capital expenditures from the same sources. Employees As of June 27, 2020, we had approximately 57,000 employees, approximately 24% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and unions in France and Sweden. Contract negotiations are handled by each individual operating company. Approximately 24% of our union employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that have expired (or will expire during fiscal 2021) and are subject to renegotiation. Since June 27, 2020, there have been 7 contract renegotiations. We consider our labor relations to be satisfactory. 4 Competition A large number of companies are engaged in the distribution of food and non-food products to the foodservice industry. Our customers may also choose to purchase products directly from wholesale or retail outlets, including club, cash and carry and grocery stores, online retailers, or negotiate prices directly with our suppliers. While we compete primarily with local and regional distributors, some organizations compete with us on a multi-region basis. In addition, these local, regional and multi-regional distributors can create purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups to enhance their competitive abilities by expanding their product mix, improving purchasing power and extending their geographic capabilities. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the foodservice industry are effective customer contacts, the ability to deliver a wide range of quality products and related services on a timely and dependable basis and competitive prices. Our customers are accustomed to purchasing from multiple suppliers and channels concurrently. Product needs, service requirements and price are just a few of the factors they evaluate when deciding where to purchase. Customers can choose from many broadline foodservice distributors, specialty distributors that focus on specific categories such as produce, meat or seafood, other wholesale channels, club stores, cash and carry stores, grocery stores and numerous online retailers. Since switching costs are very low, customers can make supplier and channel changes very quickly. There are few barriers to market entry. Existing foodservice competitors can extend their shipping distances and add truck routes and warehouses relatively quickly to serve new markets or customers. We estimate that we serve about 16% of an approximately $310 billion annual foodservice market in the United States (U.S.) based on a measurement as of the end of calendar 2019, based on industry data obtained from Technomic, Inc. We also serve certain international geographies that vary in size and amount of market share. We believe, based upon industry trade data, that our sales to the U.S. and Canada food-away-from-home industry were the highest of any foodservice distributor during fiscal 2020. While comprehensive industry statistics are not available, we believe that, in most instances, our operations in the U.S. and Canada are among the leading distributors of food and related non-food products to foodservice customers in those trading areas. We believe our competitive advantages include our sales consultants; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; the suite of services we provide to our customers, such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our multi-regional presence in North America and Europe, which mitigates some of the impact of regional economic declines that may occur over time. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a significant reduction in consumption within the foodservice market and may create a long-term change in customer demand, as purchases have shifted more to the retail grocery channel. The food-away-from-home market fell to a low of 32% of total dollars spent on food purchases as a result of the pandemic, but has since recovered to approximately 43% as of June 2020. We expect real sales growth in the U.S. foodservice market to be negative for calendar year 2020. We believe our liquidity and access to capital provides us the ability to continuously invest in business improvements. There are a small number of companies competing in the food-away-from-home industry in the U.S. with publicly traded equity. While our public company status provides us with some advantages over many of our competitors, including access to capital, we believe it also puts us at a disadvantage, in that most of our competitors do not face the obligations and additional costs related to complying with regulatory requirements applicable to public companies. Government Regulation Our company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with all applicable laws and regulations in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business. In the U.S., as a marketer and distributor of food products, we are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates food safety and quality through various statutory and regulatory mandates, including manufacturing and holding requirements for foods through good manufacturing practice regulations, hazard analysis and critical control point (HACCP) requirements for certain foods, and the food and color additive approval process. The agency also specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, prescribes the format and content of information required to appear on food product labels, regulates food contact packaging and materials, and maintains a Reportable Food Registry for the industry to report when there is a reasonable probability that an article of food will cause serious adverse health consequences. For certain product lines, we are also subject to the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, the Packers and Stockyard Act and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to interpret and implement these statutory provisions. The USDA imposes standards for product safety, quality and sanitation through the federal meat and poultry inspection program. The USDA reviews and approves the labeling of these products and also establishes standards for the grading and commercial acceptance of produce shipments from our suppliers. We are also subject to the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which imposes certain registration and record keeping requirements 5 on facilities that manufacture, process, pack or hold food for human or animal consumption, as well as Food Defense, which is a responsibility of the Department of Homeland Security. The Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) has significantly expanded our food safety requirements. We have established and continue to maintain comprehensive, prevention-based controls across the food supply chain that are both verified and validated, as required by FDA regulations implementing FSMA. The FSMA further imposes requirements for food products imported into the U.S. and provides the FDA with mandatory recall authority. We and our products are also subject to state and local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our facilities; enforcement by state and local health agencies of state and local standards for our products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of our products. Our facilities are subject to regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Department of Labor. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain chemicals present in products we distribute. We are also subject to the National Labor Relations Act, which governs the process for collective bargaining between employers and employees and protects the rights of both employers and employees in the workplace. Our processing and distribution facilities must be registered with the FDA biennially and are subject to periodic government agency inspections by the FDA and USDA. Our facilities are generally inspected at least annually by federal and/or state authorities. We also must establish communication programs to transmit information about the hazards of certain chemicals present in some of the products we distribute. Our customers include several departments of the federal government, including the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs facilities, as well as certain state and local entities. These customer relationships subject us to additional regulations applicable to government contractors. We are also subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Labor, which sets employment practice standards for workers, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, as well as its agencies, the Surface Transportation Board, the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which collectively regulate our trucking operations through the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. We must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of service. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment also fall under federal and state regulations. We are subject to regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration covering items transported by air. In addition, we are subject to the U.S. False Claims Act, and similar state statutes, which prohibit the submission of claims for payment to the government that are false and the knowing retention of overpayments. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits bribery of public officials to obtain or retain business in foreign jurisdictions. The FCPA also requires us to keep accurate books and records and to maintain internal accounting controls to detect and prevent bribery and to ensure that transactions are properly authorized and recorded. We have implemented and continue to develop a robust anti-corruption compliance program applicable to our global operations to detect and prevent bribery and to comply with these and other anti-corruption laws in countries where we operate. Our business is subject to competition laws in the various jurisdictions where we operate, including the Sherman Antitrust Act and related federal and state antitrust laws in the U.S. These laws and regulations generally prohibit competitors from fixing prices, boycotting competitors, or engaging in other conduct that unreasonably restrains competition. In many jurisdictions, compliance with these competition laws is of special importance to us, and our operations may come under special scrutiny by competition law authorities, due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Outside the U.S., our business is subject to numerous similar statutes and regulations, as well as other legal and regulatory requirements. For example, we are subject to legal and regulatory requirements of the European Union (the EU), as well as those of EU countries where we conduct business (including the U.K., Ireland, France and Sweden), which requirements relate to, among other things, competition, product composition, packaging, labeling, advertisement (including nutrition and health claims) and the safety of food products, as well as the health, safety and working conditions of employees. We are subject to privacy laws in the EU, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which requires companies to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data. In addition, our business is subject to the U.K. Modern Slavery Act 2015, which requires certain companies that operate in the U.K. to prepare a report describing steps that they have taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in their supply chain or business. Our business is also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, an anti-corruption law that criminalizes the failure by a company to prevent persons 6 associated with that company from offering or paying bribes to government officials or non-government persons in order to obtain or retain business or a business advantage for the company, as well as restricting the offer, payment or receipt of bribes to or from governmental officials and non-governmental persons. All of our company s facilities and other operations in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those in the U.S. and the EU, relating to: (1) the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater; (2) the discharge of pollutants into the air, including vehicle emissions; (3) proper handling, treatment and disposing of solid and hazardous wastes; and (4) protecting against and appropriately investigating and remediating spills and releases. Further, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products which are subject to laws regulati