Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 20 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [Reserved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 112 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 112 Item 9B. Other Information 113 Item 9C. Disclosure Reporting Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 113 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 Item 11. Executive Compensation 114 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 114 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 114 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 120 Signatures PART I Item 1. Business Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, Sysco, or the company as used in this Form 10-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions. Overview Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, is the largest global distributor of food and related products primarily to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry. Our purpose is Connecting the World to Share Food and Care for One Another. We provided products and related services to approximately 730,000 customer locations, including restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers during fiscal 2024. Founded in 1969, Sysco commenced operations as a public company in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged their stock for Sysco common stock. Since our formation, we have grown from $115 million to our all-time high of $78.8 billion in annual sales in fiscal 2024, both through internal expansion of existing operations and acquisitions. Sysco s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ended June 29, 2024 for fiscal 2024, a 52-week year ended July 1, 2023 for fiscal 2023 and a 52-week year ended July 2, 2022 for fiscal 2022. We will have a 52-week year ending June 28, 2025 for fiscal 2025. Sysco Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware. The address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099, (281) 584-1390. This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed or furnished by Sysco pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available free of charge on Sysco s website at www.sysco.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Reporting Segments Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our primary operations are in North America and Europe. Under the accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have combined certain operations into three reportable segments. Other financial information is attributable to our other operations that do not meet the quantitative disclosure thresholds. U.S. Foodservice Operations primarily includes (a) our U.S. Broadline operations, which distribute a full line of food products, including custom-cut meat, seafood, produce, specialty Italian, specialty imports and a wide variety of non-food products and (b) our U.S. Specialty operations, which include our FreshPoint fresh produce distribution business, our Specialty Meats and Seafood Group specialty protein operations, our growing Italian Specialty platform anchored by Greco Sons, Inc., Edward Don Company (Edward Don), acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2024, which distributes restaurant equipment and supplies, our Asian specialty distribution company and a number of other small specialty businesses that are not material to the operations of Sysco; International Foodservice Operations includes operations outside of the United States (U.S.), which distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products. The Americas primarily consists of operations in Canada, Bahamas, Mexico, Costa Rica and Panama, as well as our export operations that distribute to international customers. Our European operations primarily consist of operations in the United Kingdom (U.K.), France, Ireland and Sweden; SYGMA our U.S. customized distribution operations serving quick-service chain restaurant customer locations; and Other primarily our hotel supply operations, Guest Worldwide. Foodservice operating sites distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both independent and chain restaurant customers, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served. SYGMA operating sites distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. Selected financial data for each of our reportable segments, as well as financial 1 information concerning geographic areas, can be found in Note 21, Business Segment Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Customers and Products Sysco s customers in the foodservice industry include restaurants, hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, schools and colleges, hotels and motels, industrial caterers and other similar venues where foodservice products are served. The products we distribute include: frozen foods, such as meats, seafood, fully prepared entr es, fruits, vegetables and desserts; canned and dry foods; fresh meats and seafood; dairy products; beverage products; imported specialties; and fresh produce. We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including: paper products such as disposable napkins, plates and cups; tableware such as glassware and silverware; cookware such as pots, pans and utensils; restaurant and kitchen equipment and supplies; and cleaning supplies. A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product categories during the last three years is presented below: Principal product categories 2024 2023 2022 Canned and dry products 19 % 19 % 17 % Fresh and frozen meats 18 18 19 Frozen fruits, vegetables, bakery and other 15 15 14 Dairy products 10 11 10 Poultry 10 10 11 Fresh produce 9 9 8 Paper and disposables 7 7 7 Seafood 4 4 5 Beverage products 4 3 3 Equipment and smallwares (1) 2 1 1 Other (2) 2 3 5 Totals 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Due to the acquisition of Edward Don, a distributor of foodservice equipment and supplies, Equipment and smallwares is now presented as a separate principal product category. See Note 4, Acquisitions, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for details on this acquisition. (2) Other sales relate to certain non-food products, including textiles and amenities for our hotel supply business, other janitorial products, and medical supplies. Our distribution centers, which we refer to as operating sites, distribute branded merchandise, as well as products packaged under our private brands. Products packaged under our private brands have been manufactured for Sysco according to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team. In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements. We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, competitive pricing, customer service and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in the marketing and distribution of foodservice products to our customers. Our operating sites offer daily delivery to certain customer locations and have the capability of delivering special orders on short notice. Through the sales and marketing representatives 2 and support staff, we stay informed of the needs of our customers and acquaint them with new products and services. We also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution, such as providing customers with product usage reports and other data, menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in inventory control. Additionally, we provide access to various third-party services designed to add value to our customers businesses. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of Sysco s total sales for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2024. We estimate that our sales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows: Type of Customer 2024 2023 2022 Restaurants 62 % 62 % 63 % Education, government 7 8 8 Healthcare 7 7 8 Travel and leisure 6 8 7 Other (1) 18 15 14 Totals 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Other includes cafeterias that are not stand-alone restaurants, bakeries, caterers, churches, civic and fraternal organizations, vending distributors, other distributors and international exports, as well as retail food sales and logistics services. None of these types of customers, as a group, exceeded 5% of total sales in any of the years for which information is presented. We estimate that sales to our customers in the food service management (FSM) sector, which include large customers that service cafeterias in institutions such as universities, hospitals, and sporting venues, accounted for 8% of sales in fiscal 2024, as compared to 7% of sales in fiscal 2023. These sales are reflected within the respective customer types listed in the table above, depending on the type of customer the FSM operator serves. Sources of Supply We purchase from thousands of suppliers, both domestic and international, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of our purchases for fiscal 2024. These suppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise, as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers. We also provide specialty and seasonal products from small to mid-sized producers to meet a growing demand for locally sourced products. Our locally sourced products, including produce, meats, cheese and other products, help differentiate our customers offerings, satisfy demand for new products, and support local communities. Merchandise is generally purchased through both centrally developed programs, domestically and internationally, and direct programs established by our various operating sites. We administer a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. The program covers the purchasing and marketing of branded merchandise, as well as products from several national brand suppliers, encompassing substantially all product lines. Some of our products are purchased internationally within global procurement centers to build strategic relationships with international suppliers and to optimize our supply chain network. We also focus on increasing profitability by lowering operating costs and aggregate inventory levels. This reduces future facility expansion needs at our operating sites, while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers. Working Capital Practices Our growth is funded through a combination of cash on hand, cash flow from operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings. See the discussion in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources regarding our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds. We extend credit terms to some of our customers based on our assessment of each customer s creditworthiness. We monitor each customer s account and will suspend shipments if necessary. A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of customer order placement. We generally maintain inventory on hand to meet customer demand. The level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand. We also purchase additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities. We take advantage of suppliers cash discounts where appropriate. Otherwise, we pay our suppliers according to our payment terms. 3 Global Support Center Our Global Support Center (GSC) provides numerous centralized services to our operating sites and performs support activities for employees, suppliers and customers. GSC team members possess experience and expertise in, among other areas, customer and vendor contract administration, accounting and finance, treasury, legal, information technology, payroll and employee benefits, risk management and insurance, sales and marketing, merchandising, inbound logistics, human resources, strategy and tax compliance services. The GSC also makes available supply chain expertise in warehousing and distribution strategic services, which provide assistance in operational best practices, including space utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and workflow. Capital Improvements During fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, $832 million, $793 million and $633 million, respectively, were invested in facilities, technology, equipment, delivery fleet and other capital asset enhancements. From time to time, we dispose of assets in the normal course of business, and we consider proceeds from these asset sales to be an offset to capital expenditures. During fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, were $753 million, $751 million and $609 million, respectively. Capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, as a percentage of sales during fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022 were 1.0%, 1.0% and 0.9%, respectively. During the three years ended June 29, 2024, capital expenditures were financed primarily by internally generated funds along with bank and other borrowings. We expect our capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, to continue to approximate 1% of sales in fiscal 2025, and we expect to finance these capital expenditures from cash flows from operations and bank and other borrowings. Human Capital Resources We believe engaged and empowered colleagues are key to business success. Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent globally drives the company s long-term value. Our diverse colleagues and inclusive culture create an environment where colleagues can develop their skills and contribute to our success. As of June 29, 2024, we employed approximately 76,000 employees, including 51,000 U.S. employees and 25,000 employees outside the U.S., as compared to approximately 72,000 employees as of July 1, 2023. Also, approximately 99% of our U.S.-based colleagues are classified as full-time, defined as employees who work 30 or more hours per week. Approximately 15% of our employees were represented by unions, primarily the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and unions in France and Sweden. Approximately 9% of our union U.S. employees and 21% of our union international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to renegotiation in fiscal 2025. Talent Acquisition and Talent Management Maintaining a pipeline of talent is critical to our ongoing success and is essential to our succession planning efforts and to growing leaders throughout the organization. Our leadership is responsible for attracting and retaining top talent by facilitating an environment where employees feel supported and encouraged in their professional and personal development. Specifically, we promote employee development by cultivating a high-impact learning culture for our colleagues through a variety of enterprise development programs and learning resources, including goal setting and career development processes. We commit to investing in our employees through on-the-job training and coaching. Additionally, through our Sysco Speaks program, we conduct annual, confidential engagement surveys of our global workforce that are administered and analyzed by an independent third party. Total Rewards We are committed to equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity or other personal characteristics. To deliver on that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data and consider various factors, such as an employee s role and experience, job location and individual performance. We also regularly review our compensation practices to promote fair and equitable pay. In fiscal 2024, our hourly colleagues received an average hourly wage of approximately $24, and 100% of colleagues in our U.S. distribution facilities received pay above state minimum wage thresholds. Also, some of our full-time colleagues receive paid vacation and sick time benefits, short-term and long-term incentives, retirement plans, training and development, access to career opportunities, paid pregnancy and adoption leave benefits, short-term and long-term disability benefits, health and welfare benefits, and recognition, as well as other programs like employee discounts. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) team develops global strategic initiatives that are implemented to ensure that the needs specific to each region are addressed. Our vision is to build a diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment that reflects the customers and communities we serve. We use our Global DEI Advisory Council to monitor and enhance our three-year DEI Roadmap and Real Talk Dialogues which provide leaders and colleagues safe forums to have open, honest, two-way and completely voluntary conversations. Our Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) are voluntary, 4 colleague-led groups organized to foster a diverse, inclusive workplace at Sysco. They are a critical element of our engagement and DEI efforts at both our headquarters and at operating sites. As of June 29, 2024, our U.S. employee population possessed the gender, ethnic and racial attributes identified below: United States Employee Population (1) Male Female White Hispanic or Latino Black or African American Asian American Indian or Alaskan Native Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander Two or more races Not Available Individual Contributors 81 % 19 % 40 % 27 % 23 % 5 % 1 % 1 % 2 % 1 % Management 73 27 62 16 12 5 1 1 2 1 Senior Management 73 27 76 8 6 6 2 2 Officers 75 25 64 7 12 2 2 2 11 Total Sysco 80 20 43 25 22 5 1 1 2 1 (1) Information is based on self-reported identification. Competition A large number of companies are engaged in the distribution of food and non-food products to the foodservice industry. Our customers may choose to purchase products directly from wholesale or retail outlets, including club, cash and carry and grocery stores, online retailers, or negotiate prices directly with our suppliers. We compete with local and regional distributors and some organizations that operate on a multi-region basis. In addition, these local, regional and multi-regional distributors can create purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups to enhance their competitive abilities by expanding their product mix, improving purchasing power and extending their geographic capabilities. Our customers are accustomed to purchasing from multiple suppliers and channels concurrently. Customers can choose from many broadline foodservice distributors; specialty distributors that focus on specific categories such as produce, meat or seafood; other wholesale channels; club stores; cash and carry stores; grocery stores; and numerous online retailers. Since switching costs are very low, customers can make supplier and channel changes very quickly. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the foodservice industry are effective customer contacts, the ability to deliver a wide range of quality products and related services on a timely and dependable basis, and competitive prices. There are few barriers to market entry. We estimate that we serve about 17% of an approximately $360 billion annual foodservice market in the U.S., as estimated by Technomic, Inc., for calendar year 2023. Technomic projects the market size to increase to approximately $370 billion by the end of calendar 2024. We also serve certain international geographies that vary in size and amount of market share. We believe, based upon industry trade data, our sales to the U.S. and Canada food-away-from-home industry were the highest of any foodservice distributor during fiscal 2024. While comprehensive industry statistics are not available, we believe that, in most instances, our operations in the U.S. and Canada are among the leading distributors of food and related non-food products to foodservice customers in those trade areas. We believe our competitive advantages include our sales consultants; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; our service reliability; the ancillary services we provide to our customers, such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our multi-regional presence in North America and Europe. These advantages combined with a large geographical footprint of multi-temperature warehouses, mitigate some of the impact of regional economic declines that may occur over time. Government Regulation Our company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with all applicable laws and regulations in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business. In the U.S., as a marketer and distributor of food products, we are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates food safety and quality through various statutory and regulatory mandates, including manufacturing and holding requirements for foods through good manufacturing practice regulations, hazard analysis and critical control point (HACCP) requirements for certain foods, and the food and color additive approval process. The agency also specifies the standards of identity for certain foods; prescribes the format and content of information required to appear on food product labels; regulates food contact packaging and materials; and maintains a Reportable Food Registry for the industry to report when there is a reasonable probability that an article of food will cause serious adverse health consequences. For certain product lines, we are also subject to the Federal Meat 5 Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, the Packers and Stockyard Act and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to interpret and implement these statutory provisions. The USDA imposes standards for product safety, quality and sanitation through the federal meat and poultry inspection program. The USDA reviews and approves the labeling of meat and poultry products and establishes standards for the grading and commercial acceptance of produce shipments from our suppliers. We are also subject to the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which imposes certain registration and record keeping requirements on facilities that manufacture, process, pack or hold food for human or animal consumption. The Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) has significantly expanded our food safety requirements, including certain mandatory safety prevention practices. The FDA has finalized numerous regulations implementing FSMA, recognizing that ensuring the safety of the food supply is a shared responsibility among many different points in the global supply chain. The FSMA rules are designed to identify specific actions that must be taken at each of these points to prevent contamination. We have established and continue to maintain comprehensive, prevention-based controls across the food supply chain that are both verified and validated, as required by FDA regulations implementing FSMA. FSMA further imposes requirements for food products imported into the U.S. All food intended for introduction into U.S. interstate commerce must be safe, sanitary, and labeled according to U.S. requirements. Importers can import food into the U.S. as long as the facilities that produce, store, or otherwise handle the products are registered with the FDA, and prior notice of incoming shipments is provided to the FDA. Imported food products are subject to FDA inspection at U.S. ports of entry and the FDA may detain shipments of products if the shipments are found to be non-compliant with U.S. requirements. FSMA also provides the FDA with expanded enforcement authority, including mandatory recall authority over all articles of food (other than infant formula) that are manufactured, processed, packed, or held at a food facility that is required to register with the FDA. As a marketer and distributor of various non-food products, such as food containers and utensils, kitchen equipment, and cleaning supplies, we are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to the safety, storage, transportation, sale, advertising and labeling of those non-food products, including requirements to provide information about the hazards of certain chemicals present in some of the products we distribute and regulations restricting the sale of products made with certain materials or chemicals. We and our products are also subject to state and local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our facilities; enforcement by state and local health agencies of state and local standards for our products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of our products. Our facilities are subject to regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Department of Labor. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain chemicals present in products we distribute. We are also subject to the National Labor Relations Act, which governs the process for collective bargaining between employers and employees and protects the rights of both employers and employees in the workplace. The Fair Labor Standards Act, which establishes minimum wages and overtime standards, among other requirements, laws that prohibit discrimination in employment based on non-merit categories, including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, and other laws relating to accessibility. Our workers compensation programs are subject to regulation by the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our processing and distribution facilities must be registered with the FDA biennially and are subject to periodic government agency inspections by the FDA and USDA. Our facilities are generally inspected at least annually by federal and/or state authorities. We also must comply with Federal Trade Commission standards with respect to any claims made about our food products in advertising and marketing materials. Our customers include several departments of the federal government, including the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs facilities, as well as certain state and local entities. These customer relationships subject us to additional regulations applicable to government contractors. We are also subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Labor, which sets employment practice standards for workers. We are also subject to regulations by the U.S. Department of Transportation, as well as its agencies, the Surface Transportation Board, the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which collectively regulate our trucking operations through the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. We must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment also fall under federal and state regulations. We are subject to regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration 6 covering items transported by air. In addition, we are subject to the federal False Claims Act, and similar state statutes, which prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the government and the knowing and improper retention of overpayments. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits bribery of public officials to obtain or retain business in foreign jurisdictions. The FCPA also requires us to keep accurate books and records and to maintain internal accounting controls to detect and prevent bribery and to ensure that transactions are properly authorized and recorded. We have implemented and continue to develop an anti-corruption compliance program applicable to our global operations intended to detect and prevent bribery and to comply with th