ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL AT T Inc. ( AT T, we or the Company ) is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website information into this document.) We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q and Form 10-K; proxy materials; registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and other forms or reports as required. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We make available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so requests, our Code of Ethics applicable to all employees and Directors, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors, including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that website. A reference to a Note refers to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. History AT T, formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several regional holding companies created to hold AT T Corp. s (ATTC) local telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly traded telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in five southwestern states. Following our formation, we have expanded our communications footprint and operations and invested in entertainment businesses, most significantly: Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in 1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states. In 2005, we merged one of our subsidiaries with ATTC, creating one of the world s leading telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name of our company from SBC Communications Inc. to AT T Inc. In 2006, we merged one of our subsidiaries with BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth acquisition, we also acquired BellSouth s 40 percent economic interest in AT T Mobility LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, resulting in 100 percent ownership of AT T Mobility. In 2014, we completed the acquisition of wireless provider Leap Wireless International, Inc. and sold our ILEC operations in Connecticut, which we had previously acquired in 1998. In 2015, we acquired wireless properties in Mexico, and acquired DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment services in both the United States and Latin America. In 2018, the Latin American operations of DIRECTV was renamed Vrio. In June 2018, we acquired Time Warner Inc. (Time Warner), a leader in media and entertainment that operated the Turner, Home Box Office (HBO) and Warner Bros. divisions. We also acquired Otter Media Holdings (substantially disposed of in 2021) and advertising platform AppNexus in August 2018 (agreement to sell signed in December 2021). In May 2021, we entered into an agreement to combine our WarnerMedia segment, subject to certain exceptions, with a subsidiary of Discovery, Inc. (Discovery). The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2022, subject to approval by Discovery shareholders and customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. In October 2020, we sold our wireless and wireline operations in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In July 2021, we closed our transaction with TPG Capital (TPG) to form a new company named DIRECTV Entertainment Holdings, LLC (DIRECTV). With the close of the transaction, we separated our Video business, comprised of our U.S. video operations, and began accounting for our investment in DIRECTV under the equity method. 1 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts In November 2021, we sold our Vrio business unit, which provided video services primarily to residential customers using satellite technology in Latin America and the Caribbean. General We are a leading provider of telecommunications, media and technology services globally. The services and products that we offer vary by market and utilize various technology platforms in a range of geographies. Our reportable segments are organized as follows: The Communications segment provides services to businesses and consumers located in the U.S. and businesses globally. Our business strategies reflect bundled product offerings that cut across product lines and utilize shared assets. This segment contains the following business units: Mobility provides nationwide wireless service and equipment. Business Wireline provides advanced IP-based services, as well as traditional voice and data services to business customers. Consumer Wireline provides internet, including broadband fiber, and legacy telephony voice communication services to residential customers. The WarnerMedia segment develops, produces and distributes feature films, television, gaming and other content in various physical and digital formats globally. WarnerMedia content is distributed through basic networks, Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) or theatrical, TV content and games licensing. Segment results also include Xandr advertising and Otter Media Holdings (Otter Media). We disposed of substantially all Otter Media assets in the third quarter of 2021. On May 17, 2021, we entered into an agreement to combine our WarnerMedia segment, subject to certain exceptions, with a subsidiary of Discovery, Inc. (Discovery). On December 21, 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell the marketplace component of Xandr to Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft). (See Note 6) The Latin America segment provides wireless services and equipment in Mexico, and prior to the November 2021 disposition of Vrio, video services in Latin America and the Caribbean. Corporate and Other reconciles our segment results to consolidated operating income and income before income taxes, and includes: Corporate , which consists of: (1) businesses no longer integral to our operations or which we no longer actively market, (2) corporate support functions, (3) impacts of corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated, and (4) the reclassification of the amortization of prior service credits, which we continue to report with segment operating expenses, to consolidated Other income (expense) net. Costs previously allocated to the Video business that were retained after the transaction, net of reimbursements from DIRECTV under transition service agreements, are reported in Corporate following the transaction through 2022, to maintain comparability of our operating segment results, and while operational plans and continued cost reduction initiatives are implemented. Video , which consists of our former U.S. video operations that were contributed to DIRECTV on July 31, 2021 and also includes our share of DIRECTV s earnings as equity in net income of affiliates (see Note 10). Acquisition-related items , which consists of items associated with the merger and integration of acquired or divested businesses, including amortization of intangible assets. Certain significant items , which includes (1) employee separation charges associated with voluntary and/or strategic offers, (2) asset impairments and abandonments, and (3) other items for which the segments are not being evaluated. Eliminations and consolidations , which (1) removes transactions involving dealings between our segments, including channel distribution between WarnerMedia and Video prior to its separation, and (2) includes adjustments for our reporting of the advertising business. 2 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts Areas of Focus The importance of world-class connectivity and content come together in our three market focus areas: 5G, fiber and HBO Max. Fiber underpins the connectivity we deliver, both wired and wireless. Building on that fiber foundation is our solid spectrum portfolio, strengthened through recent Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction acquisitions and 5G deployment. We believe our hybrid fixed and mobile approach will differentiate our services and provide us with additional growth opportunities in the future as bandwidth demands continue to grow, with user-generated content growing at an ever-increasing pace. With HBO Max, we ve developed a next-generation entertainment distribution platform built for growth in direct-to-consumer subscription and advertising-based relationships. We will continue to demonstrate our commitment to ensure management attention is sharply focused on growth areas and operational efficiencies. Communications Our integrated telecommunications network utilizes different technological platforms to provide instant connectivity at the higher speeds made possible by our fiber network expansion and wireless network enhancements. Streaming, augmented reality, smart technologies and user generated content is expected to drive greater demand for broadband and capitalize on our fiber and 5G deployments. During 2022, we will continue to develop and provide high-value, integrated mobile and broadband solutions. Wireless Service We are experiencing rapid growth in data usage as consumers are demanding seamless access across their wireless and wired devices, and businesses and municipalities are connecting more and more equipment and facilities to the internet. The deployment of 5G, which allows for faster connectivity, lower latency and greater bandwidth requires modifications of existing cell sites to add equipment supporting new frequencies, like the C-Band and the newly auctioned 3.45 GHz band. Our 5G service went nationwide in July 2020, and with that availability, the introduction of 5G handsets and devices has contributed to a renewed interest in equipment upgrades. The increased speeds and network operating efficiency expected with 5G technology should enable massive deployment of devices connected to the internet as well as faster delivery of data services. In January 2022, we began to deploy our C-band spectrum, subject to certain voluntary limitations. In North America, our network covers over 434 million people with 4G LTE and over 250 million with 5G technology. In the United States, our network covers all major metropolitan areas and more than 330 million people with our LTE technology and more than 250 million people with our 5G technology. Our 3G network provides services to customers using older handsets and connected devices. We will discontinue services on our 3G network on February 22, 2022 and expect to redeploy that spectrum in our transition to 5G. As of December 31, 2021, about 1 percent of our postpaid subscribers were using 3G handsets, and we expect them to transition to newer technologies. We do not expect this transition to have a material impact on our consolidated operating results. As the wireless industry has matured, future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative data services on a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. We continue to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, as well as obtaining additional spectrum that meets our long-term needs. We participate in FCC spectrum auctions and have been redeploying spectrum previously used for more basic services to support more advanced mobile internet services. Broadband Technology In 2020, we identified fiber as a core priority for our business, working to expand our footprint and accelerating our historical rate of customer growth. At December 31, 2021, we had nearly 6 million fiber broadband customers, adding more than 1 million during the year. The expansion builds on our recent years investment to convert to a software-based network, managing the migration of wireline customers to services using our fiber infrastructure to provide broadband technology. Software-based technologies align with our global leadership in software defined network (SDN) and network function virtualization (NFV). This network approach delivers a demonstrable cost advantage in the deployment of next-generation technology over the traditional, hardware-intensive network approach. Our virtualized network is able to support next-generation applications like 5G and broadband-based services quickly and efficiently. 3 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts Media We produce and distribute high-quality video content to take advantage of growing global demand. Our media businesses use their strong brands, distinctive intellectual property and global scale to produce and distribute quality content. As the television industry continues to evolve from a distribution system using satellite and cable offerings to internet streaming video services, we are well-positioned to address and capitalize on these changes, but we face financial risks and new sources of competition associated with these developments. In 2022, we plan to continue providing more personalized services offered directly to consumers through our own distribution and distribution partner channels, including expanding our streaming platform, HBO Max, in certain international territories. AT T customers in the U.S. that are on certain mobile and broadband plans can bundle with HBO Max included at no additional charge. Latin America We believe that the wireless model in the U.S., with accelerating demand for mobile internet service and the associated economic benefits, will be repeated around the world as companies invest in high-speed mobile networks. We acquired Mexican wireless operations in 2015 to establish a seamless, cross-border North American wireless network which now covers an area with over 434 million people and businesses in the United States and Mexico. With the increased capacity from our LTE network, we also expect additional wholesale revenue in the coming years. Our 4G LTE network in Mexico now covers approximately 104 million people and businesses. BUSINESS OPERATIONS OPERATING SEGMENTS Our segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services over various technology platforms and/or in different geographies that are managed accordingly. We analyze our operating segments based on segment contribution, which consists of operating income, excluding acquisition-related costs and other significant items, and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates for investments managed within each operating segment. We have three reportable segments: (1) Communications, (2) WarnerMedia and (3) Latin America. Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included under the heading Segment Results in Item 7. and in Note 4 of Item 8. COMMUNICATIONS Our Communications segment provides wireless and wireline telecom and broadband services to consumers located in the U.S. and businesses globally. Our Communications services and products are marketed under the AT T, Cricket, AT T PREPAID SM and AT T Fiber brand names. The Communications segment provided approximately 74% of 2021 segment operating revenues and 81% of our 2021 total segment contribution. This segment contains the Mobility, Business Wireline and Consumer Wireline business units. Mobility Our Mobility business unit provides nationwide wireless services to consumers and wholesale and resale wireless subscribers located in the United States by utilizing our network to provide voice and data services, including high-speed internet over wireless devices. We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, prepaid, connected device or reseller. At December 31, 2021, we served 202 million Mobility subscribers, including 82 million postpaid (67 million phone), 19 million prepaid, 6 million reseller and 95 million connected devices. Our Mobility business unit revenue includes the following categories: service and equipment. Wireless Services We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans to meet the communications needs of targeted customer categories. Through our FirstNet services, we also provide a nationwide wireless broadband network dedicated to public safety. Consumers continue to require increasing availability of data-centric services and a network to connect and control those devices. An increasing number of our subscribers are using more advanced integrated and data-centric devices, including embedded computing systems and/or software, commonly called the Internet of Things (IoT). We offer plans that include unlimited features allowing for the sharing of voice, text and data across multiple devices, which attracts subscribers from other providers and helps minimize subscriber churn. Customers in our connected device category (e.g., users of monitoring devices and automobile systems) generally purchase those devices from third-party suppliers that buy data access supported by our network. We continue to upgrade our network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and application developers to further capitalize on the continued growing demand for wireless data services. 4 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts We also offer nationwide wireless voice and data communications to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance. These services are offered under the Cricket and AT T PREPAID brands and are typically monthly prepaid services. Equipment We sell a wide variety of handsets, wireless data cards and wireless computing devices manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases and hands-free devices. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents and third-party retail stores. We provide our customers the ability to purchase handsets on an installment basis and the opportunity to bring their own device. Subscribers have been bringing their own devices or retaining their handsets for longer periods, which could continue to impact upgrade activity. Like other wireless service providers, we also provide a limited number of postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service. Business Wireline Our Business Wireline business unit provides services to business customers, including multinational corporations, small and mid-sized businesses, governmental and wholesale customers. Our Business Wireline business unit revenue includes the following categories: services and equipment. Business Services Business services include data, voice, security, cloud solutions, outsourcing, and managed and professional services. Our more advanced business products allow our customers to create and manage their own internal networks and to access external data networks, and include Virtual Private Networks (VPN), AT T Dedicated Internet (ADI), and Ethernet and broadband services. We provide collaboration services that utilize our IP infrastructure and allow our customers to utilize the most advanced technology to improve their productivity. We also provide state-of-the-art security solutions like threat management, intrusion detection and other business security applications. We continue to reconfigure our wireline network to take advantage of the latest technologies and services. We have developed services that rely on our SDN and NFV to enhance business customers digital agility in a rapidly evolving environment. Equipment Equipment revenues include customer premises equipment. Consumer Wireline Our Consumer Wireline business unit provides internet, including broadband fiber, and legacy telephony voice communication to customers in the United States by utilizing our IP-based and copper wired network. Our Consumer Wireline business unit revenue includes the following categories: broadband, legacy voice and data services and other service and equipment. Broadband We offer broadband and internet services to approximately 16 million customer locations, with 6 million fiber broadband connections at December 31, 2021. With changes in video viewing preferences and the recent work and learn from home trends, we are experiencing increasing demand for high-speed broadband services. Our investment in expanding our industry-leading fiber network positions us to be a leader in wired connectivity. We believe that our flexible platform with a broadband and wireless connection is the most efficient way to transport direct-to-consumer video experiences both at home and on mobile devices. Through this integrated approach, we can optimize the use of storage in the home as well as in the cloud, while also providing a seamless service for consumers across screens and locations. Our WarnerMedia streaming platform, HBO Max, provides an attractive offering of video options and is driving our direct-to-consumer strategy. Legacy Voice and Data Services Revenues from our traditional voice services continue to decline as customers switch to wireless or VoIP services provided by us, cable companies or other internet-based providers. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband and video, and intend to continue this strategy during 2022. Other Services and Equipment Other service revenues include AT T U-verse voice services (which use VoIP technology), customer fees and equipment. Additional information on our Communications segment is contained in the Overview section of Item 7. 5 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts WARNERMEDIA Our WarnerMedia segment is comprised of a global media and entertainment company that develops, produces and acquires feature films, television, gaming and other content for monetization in various media outlets including theatrical, its own and third-party basic and premium pay television, free-to-air television, direct-to-consumer services and physical / digital retail. WarnerMedia is organized as an integrated content organization that operates as a single segment. Content creation, distribution, and programming are centrally managed to ensure the highest quality content is available to consumers on the optimal platform or format on a worldwide basis. The WarnerMedia segment provided approximately 23% of 2021 segment operating revenues and 21% of our 2021 total segment contribution. WarnerMedia revenues include the following categories: subscription, content and other and advertising. On May 17, 2021, we entered into an agreement to combine our WarnerMedia segment, subject to certain exceptions, with a subsidiary of Discovery. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2022, subject to approval by Discovery shareholders and customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. No vote is required by AT T shareholders. On December 21, 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell the marketplace component of Xandr, primarily representing the AppNexus business, to Microsoft. The transaction is expected to close in 2022, subject to customary closing conditions. Subscription Subscription revenue consists principally of subscriber-based revenue from HBO networks (both traditional linear and legacy streaming on-demand offerings) and the HBO Max streaming platform, as well as its WarnerMedia basic networks. HBO s networks (including Cinemax) are available in the United States and internationally to subscribers through traditional and digital distributors on a premium pay basis and, in certain territories, in the basic television tier, as well as directly to consumers. The HBO Max platform is made available on an over-the-top subscription basis through the internet directly to consumers and through third-party distribution partners. HBO Max launched in the United States in May 2020 with an advertising-free service, in Latin America and the Caribbean in June 2021 and in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Spain and Andorra in October 2021, with further international expansion planned for 2022. The WarnerMedia basic television networks are primarily delivered by traditional television distributors, such as cable, satellite, and telecommunications service providers, as well as digital distributors, and are available to subscribers of the distributors for viewing live and on demand through the distributors services and companion network apps. WarnerMedia s domestic license agreements with distributors are multi-year arrangements that typically provide for packaging and marketing support. Revenues depend on the specific terms of the applicable agreement, which may include subscriber thresholds, volume discounts and other performance-based discounts. As of December 31, 2021, we had nearly 74 million HBO Max and HBO subscribers worldwide, including nearly 47 million domestic subscribers. Global HBO Max and HBO subscribers consist of domestic and international HBO Max and HBO subscribers, and exclude free trials, basic and Cinemax subscribers. Domestic HBO Max and HBO subscribers consist of U.S. accounts with access to HBO Max (including wholesale subscribers and subscribers receiving access through bundled services with affiliates that may not have signed in) and HBO accounts, and exclude free trials and Cinemax subscribers. Content and Other Content revenue consists principally of licensing feature films for initial theatrical exhibition, and films and television programs for traditional television broadcast and distribution via digital platforms, including via free-to-air, basic and premium pay-TV; television syndication; and streaming services. Content revenue also includes home entertainment sales and rentals of film and television products (physical and digital, including premium video-on-demand, transactional video-on-demand and electronic sell-through), publishing and distribution of interactive games entertainment (physical and digital) across all platforms, comic book and other book publishing, and consumer products licensing. The content produced by WarnerMedia is used across its various branded programming services and distribution platforms, including its traditional linear networks and the HBO Max platform. The television and film programming content produced is also licensed to third parties for use as part of their various video services and platforms. WarnerMedia also acquires television and film programming content from third parties to include as part of its branded services and platforms. Decisions relating to content development and production are dependent upon finding optimal audiences and distribution outlets. In response to the general disruptions to consumer behavior and entertainment options caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have adapted by trying variations on traditional theatrical distribution models, such as day and date release windowing for certain films for on-demand and theatrical availability and the shortening of the traditional theatrical window for others, and exploring other hybrid models. As consumers demand more and different optionality over how and when to consume their favorite content, traditional distribution models for our business can be expected to continue to adapt and evolve responsively. 6 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts Advertising Advertising revenue consists primarily of advertising arrangements for its basic pay-TV networks and related properties, and includes the advertising-supported tier of HBO Max, which launched in the United States in June 2021. In the United States and internationally, advertising revenues generally depend on the size and demographics of a network s audience delivered to an advertiser, the number of units of time sold and the price per unit. The price per unit of advertising is determined considering factors such as the type of program or network, the level of targeting and/or the time of day the advertising is to be run. Certain advertising inventory is sold in the upfront market in advance each year and other inventory is sold in the scatter market closer to the time that a program airs. Outside the U.S., advertising is generally sold at a fixed rate for the unit of time sold, determined by the time of day and network. WarnerMedia s digital properties consist of owned assets and those managed and/or operated for sports leagues where our basic networks hold the related programming rights. Digital properties managed or operated for sports leagues include NBA.com, NBA Mobile and NCAA.com. Additional information on our WarnerMedia segment is contained in the Overview section of Item 7. LATIN AMERICA Our Latin America segment provides wireless services in Mexico, and prior to the November 2021 sale of Vrio, video services in Latin America. The Latin America segment provided approximately 3% of 2021 segment operating revenues. Our Latin America services and products are marketed under the AT T and Unefon brand names. This segment contains the Mex