ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL AT T Inc. ( AT T, we or the Company ) is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website information into this document.) We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q and Form 10-K; proxy materials; registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and other forms or reports as required. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We make available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so requests, our Code of Ethics applicable to all employees and Directors, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors, including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that website. A reference to a Note refers to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. History AT T, formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several regional holding companies created to hold AT T Corp. s (ATTC) local telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly-traded telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in five southwestern states. Following our formation, we have expanded our footprint and operations by acquiring various businesses, most significantly: Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in 1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states. In 2005, we merged one of our subsidiaries with ATTC, creating one of the world s leading telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name of our company from SBC Communications Inc. to AT T Inc. In 2006, we merged one of our subsidiaries with BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth acquisition, we also acquired BellSouth s 40 percent economic interest in AT T Mobility LLC (AT T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, resulting in 100 percent ownership of AT T Mobility. In 2014, we completed the acquisition of wireless provider Leap Wireless International, Inc. and sold our ILEC operations in Connecticut, which we had previously acquired in 1998. In January and April 2015, we acquired wireless properties in Mexico, and acquired DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment services in both the United States and Latin America. In June 2018, we acquired Time Warner Inc. (Time Warner), a leader in media and entertainment that operates the Turner, Home Box Office (HBO) and Warner Bros. business units. We also acquired Otter Media Holdings August 2018 and advertising platform AppNexus in August 2018. In late 2019, we announced the sale of wireless and wireline operations in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands; the sale is expected to close in mid-2020. General We are a leading provider of telecommunications, media and technology services globally. The services and products that we offer vary by market and utilize various technology platforms in a range of geographies. Our reportable segments are organized as follows: 1 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts The Communications segment provides services to businesses and consumers located in the U.S. and businesses globally. Our business strategies reflect bundled product offerings that cut across product lines and utilize shared assets. This segment contains the following business units: Mobility provides nationwide wireless service and equipment. Entertainment Group provides video, including over-the-top (OTT) services, internet and voice communications services to residential customers. This segment also sells advertising on DIRECTV and U-verse distribution platforms. Business Wireline provides advanced IP-based services, as well as traditional voice and data services to business customers. The WarnerMedia segment develops, produces and distributes feature films, television, gaming and other content over various physical and digital formats. This segment contains the following business units: Turner primarily operates multichannel basic television networks and digital properties. Turner also sells advertising on its networks and digital properties. Home Box Office consists of premium pay television and OTT and streaming services domestically and premium pay, basic tier television and OTT and streaming services internationally, as well as content licensing and home entertainment. Warner Bros. consists of the production, distribution and licensing of television programming and feature films, the distribution of home entertainment products and the production and distribution of games. The Latin America segment provides entertainment and wireless services outside of the U.S. This segment contains the following business units: Mexico provides wireless service and equipment to customers in Mexico. Vrio provides video services primarily to residential customers using satellite technology in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Xandr segment provides advertising services. These services utilize data insights to develop and deliver targeted advertising across video and digital platforms. Corporate and Other reconciles our segment results to consolidated operating income and income before income taxes, and includes: Corporate , which consists of: (1) businesses no longer integral to our operations or which we no longer actively market, (2) corporate support functions, (3) impacts of corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated, (4) the reclassification of the amortization of prior service credits, which we continue to report with segment operating expenses, to consolidated other income (expense) net and (5) the recharacterization of programming intangible asset amortization, for programming acquired in the Time Warner acquisition, which we continue to report with WarnerMedia segment operating expense, to consolidated amortization expense. Acquisition-related items , which consists of items associated with the merger and integration of acquired businesses, including amortization of intangible assets. Certain significant items , which includes (1) employee separation charges associated with voluntary and/or strategic offers, (2) losses resulting from abandonment or impairment of assets and (3) other items for which the individual segments are not being evaluated. Eliminations and consolidations , which (1) removes transactions involving dealings between our segments, including content licensing between WarnerMedia and Communications and (2) includes adjustments for our reporting of the advertising business. Areas of Focus We are in a period of rapid growth in wireless video usage and believe that there are substantial opportunities available for next-generation converged services that combine technologies and services. Our First Responder Network Authority (FirstNet) contract and our strong spectrum position allows us to execute a different 5G deployment strategy. With our upcoming launch of HBO Max, we will capitalize on our premier network, technology and distribution capabilities to provide our premier content in this unique offering. Our recent fiber expansion allows us to respond to continuing advances in technology and changing demands from our customers. We expect our transition to software-based products with low acquisition costs will provide better economics and improve our product portfolio, including expansion into streaming TV. Our acquisitions over the past few years and our continued investment in a premier network experience make our customers 2 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts lives more convenient and productive and foster competition and further innovation in the communications and entertainment industry. In 2020, we plan to focus on the areas discussed below. Communications Our integrated telecommunications network utilizes different technological platforms, including wireless, satellite and wireline, to provide instant connectivity and at the higher speeds made possible by our fiber network expansion and wireless network enhancements. Video streaming will also drive greater demand for broadband and capitalize on our fiber deployment. These investments prepare us to meet increased customer demand for enhanced wireless and broadband services, including video streaming, augmented reality and smart technologies. During 2020, we will continue to develop and provide high-value integrated video, mobile and broadband solutions. We believe offering integrated services facilitates our customers desire to view video anywhere on demand and encourages customer retention. Wireless Service We are experiencing rapid growth in data usage as consumers are demanding seamless access across their wireless and wired devices, and businesses and municipalities are connecting more and more equipment and facilities to the internet. We were awarded the FirstNet contract, which provides us with access to 20 MHz of nationwide low band spectrum and invested in 5G and millimeter-wave technologies with our acquisition of FiberTower Corporation, which currently holds significant amounts of spectrum in the millimeter wave bands (39 GHz) that the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) reallocated for mobile broadband services. These bands will help to accelerate our entry into 5G services. At December 31, 2019, our FirstNet coverage is approximately 75 percent complete with more than 1.0 million FirstNet connections. We expect to have mobile 5G service nationwide to more than 200 million people by the second quarter 2020, and with that availability, we anticipate the introduction of 5G handsets and devices will contribute to a renewed interest in equipment upgrades. We will continue to invest in our wireless network as we look to provide future service offerings and participate in technologies, such as 5G and millimeter-wave bands. The increased speeds and network operating efficiency expected with this technology should enable massive deployment of devices connected to the internet as well as faster delivery of data services. We expect that 5G will enhance our customers entire connected experience and not just provide faster speeds. Our network covers over 430 million people in North America with 4G LTE technology, and, in the United States, our network covers all major metropolitan areas and more than 330 million people with our LTE technology. Our 3G network provides services to customers using older handsets and connected devices. We expect to redeploy spectrum currently used for our 3G services as we transition to 5G service and project that we will discontinue service on our 3G network in early 2022; we will manage this process consistent with previous network upgrades. As of December 31, 2019, about 7 percent of our postpaid subscribers were using 3G handsets, and we expect them to transition to newer technologies. We do not expect this transition to have a material impact on our consolidated operating results. As the wireless industry has matured, future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative data services on a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. We continue to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, as well as obtaining additional spectrum that meets our long-term needs. We have participated in recent FCC spectrum auctions, including the 24 GHz auction in 2019, and have been redeploying spectrum previously used for more basic services to support more advanced mobile internet services. Broadband Technology We are rapidly converting to a software-based network and managing the migration of wireline customers to services using our fiber infrastructure to provide broadband technology. Software-based technologies align with our global leadership in software defined network (SDN) and network function virtualization (NFV). This network approach, of which we are a global leader in our commitment to virtualize 75 percent of our network by the end of 2020, delivers a demonstrable cost advantage in the deployment of next-generation technology over the traditional, hardware-intensive network approach. Our virtualized network will be able to support next-generation applications like 5G and broadband-based services quickly and efficiently. 3 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts Media We produce and distribute high-quality video content to take advantage of growing global demand. Our media businesses use their strong brands, distinctive intellectual property and global scale to produce and distribute quality content. As the television industry continues to evolve from a distribution system using satellite and cable offerings to internet streaming video services, we are well-positioned to address and capitalize on these changes, but we face financial risks and new sources of competition associated with these developments. We plan in 2020 to continue launching more personalized services offered directly to consumers through our own distribution and distribution partner channels, including our streaming platform HBO Max, scheduled for launch in May 2020. AT T customers on premium video, mobile and broadband services will be offered bundles with HBO Max included at no additional charge. We also plan to add an advertising-supported HBO Max offering to take advantage of our advertising capabilities. In the future, we also plan to provide HBO Max subscribers with unique live, interactive and special event programming. Advertising Our Xandr segment relies on using data from our 170 million customer relationships, to deliver digital and video advertising that is more relevant to consumers. Advertisers are interested in capitalizing on our broad video distribution and ability to offer more precise marketing to customers through a digital platform. We also are expanding relationships with other video providers and digital publishers to use our platforms to reach their audiences. We believe this segment will benefit from the nationwide election cycle in 2020. Latin America We believe that the wireless model in the U.S., with accelerating demand for mobile internet service and the associated economic benefits, will be repeated around the world as companies invest in high-speed mobile networks. Due in part to changes in the legal and regulatory framework in Mexico in 2015, we acquired Mexican wireless operations to establish a seamless, cross-border North American wireless network covering an area with over 430 million people and businesses in the United States and Mexico. Our 4G LTE network in Mexico now covers approximately 100 million people and businesses. Our Vrio business unit provides video services to primarily residential customers using satellite technology in Latin America and the Caribbean. We have approximately 13 million video subscribers in Latin America. BUSINESS OPERATIONS OPERATING SEGMENTS Our segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services over various technology platforms and/or in different geographies that are managed accordingly. We analyze our operating segments based on segment contribution, which consists of operating income, excluding acquisition-related costs and other significant items, and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates for investments managed within each operating segment. We have four reportable segments: (1) Communications, (2) WarnerMedia, (3) Latin America and (4) Xandr. Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included under the heading Segment Results in Item 7. and in Note 4 of Item 8. COMMUNICATIONS Our Communications segment provides wireless and wireline telecom, video and broadband services to consumers located in the U.S. and businesses globally. Our Communications services and products are marketed under the AT T, Cricket, AT T PREPAID and DIRECTV brand names. The Communications segment provided approximately 77% of 2019 segment operating revenues and 76% of our 2019 total segment contribution. This segment contains the Mobility, Entertainment Group and Business Wireline business units. Mobility Our Mobility business unit provides nationwide wireless services to consumers and wholesale and resale wireless subscribers located in the United States by utilizing our network to provide voice and data services, including high-speed internet over wireless devices. We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, prepaid, connected device or reseller. At December 31, 4 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts 2019, we served 166 million Mobility subscribers, including 75 million postpaid, 18 million prepaid, 7 million reseller and 66 million connected devices. Our Mobility business unit revenue includes the following categories: service and equipment. Wireless Services We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans to meet the communications needs of targeted customer categories. Through our FirstNet services, we also provide a nationwide wireless broadband network dedicated to public safety. Consumers continue to require increasing availability of data-centric services and a network to connect and control those devices. An increasing number of our subscribers are using more advanced integrated and data-centric devices, including embedded computing systems and/or software, commonly called the Internet of Things (IoT). We offer plans that include unlimited features allowing for the sharing of voice, text and data across multiple devices, which attracts subscribers from other providers and helps minimize subscriber churn. Customers in our connected device category (e.g., users of monitoring devices and automobile systems) generally purchase those devices from third-party suppliers that buy data access supported by our network. We continue to upgrade our network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and application developers to further capitalize on the continued growing demand for wireless data services. We also offer nationwide wireless voice and data communications to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance. These services are offered under the Cricket and AT T PREPAID SM brands and are typically monthly prepaid services. Equipment We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers and wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases and hands-free devices. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents and third-party retail stores. We provide our customers the ability to purchase handsets on an installment basis and the opportunity to bring their own device. In recent years, subscribers have been bringing their own devices or retaining their handsets for longer periods, which could continue to impact upgrade activity. Like other wireless service providers, we also provide a limited number of postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service. Entertainment Group Our Entertainment Group business unit provides video, internet/broadband, voice communication and interactive and targeted advertising services to customers in the United States by utilizing our IP-based and copper wired network and/or our satellite technology. Our Entertainment Group business unit revenue includes the following categories: video entertainment, high-speed internet, legacy voice and data services and other service and equipment. Video Entertainment Video entertainment revenues are comprised of subscription and advertising revenues. We offer video entertainment services using satellite and IP-based technologies (referred to as premium or linear ) as well as streaming options that do not require either satellite or wired IP services (referred to as over-the-top or OTT ). Our offerings are structured to provide customers with the best video experience both inside and outside of the home by offering subscribers attractive programming and state-of-the-art technology. Due to the rising cost of programming as well as higher costs to acquire new subscribers in an increasingly competitive industry, we have discontinued long-term (e.g., two-year) price locks for subscribers, and have instead adopted a strategy of focusing on higher-value subscribers with offerings that distinguish and elevate our video entertainment experience for our new and existing customers. In trial markets, we have started bundling our fiber broadband offer with AT T TV, which is delivered over our software-based video architecture and has a lower subscriber acquisition cost. We provide approximately 20 million subscribers with access to hundreds of channels of digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming. In addition, our video entertainment subscribers have the ability to use the internet and/or our mobile applications from smartphones and tablets to view authorized content, search program listings and schedule DVR recordings. Our customers continue to shift, consistent with the rest of the industry, from a premium linear service to our more economically priced OTT video service, or to competitors, which has pressured our video revenues. We believe it is critical that we extend our brand leadership as a premium pay-TV provider in the marketplace by providing a direct to consumer video experience both at home and on mobile devices. Our traditional linear business historically has generated at least $4,000, including synergies resulting from our DIRECTV acquisition. We believe that our flexible platform with a broadband and wireless connection is the most efficient way to transport that content. Through this integrated approach, we can optimize the use of storage in the home as well as in the cloud, while also providing a seamless service for 5 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts consumers across screens and locations. We expect our upcoming streaming platform HBO Max to provide an attractive offering of video options as well as bundling opportunities for our wireless customers and will drive our direct to consumer strategy. High-Speed Internet We offer broadband and internet services to 13.6 million residential subscribers, with 3.9 million fiber broadband connections at December 31, 2019. Our IP-based technology provides high-speed internet services. Legacy Voice and Data Services Revenues from our traditional voice services continue to decline as customers switch to wireless or VoIP services provided by us, cable companies or other internet-based providers. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband and video, and intend to continue this strategy during 2020. Business Wireline Our Business Wireline business unit provides services to business customers, including multinational corporations, small and mid-sized businesses, governmental and wholesale customers. Our Business Wireline business unit revenue includes the following categories: strategic and managed services, legacy voice and data services, and other services and equipment. Strategic and Managed Services Strategic and managed services are our most advanced business solutions and allow our customers to create and manage their own internal networks and to access external data networks. Additionally, we provide collaboration services that utilize our IP infrastructure and allow our customers to utilize the most advanced technology to improve their productivity. Our strategic and managed services are made up of Strategic Data, Strategic Voice, Security, Cloud Solutions, Outsourcing, Managed Services and Professional Services. Strategic Data services include our Virtual Private Networks (VPN), AT T Dedicated Internet (ADI), and Ethernet and Broadband Services. We continue to reconfigure our wireline network to take advantage of the latest technologies and services. We have developed services that rely on our SDN and NFV to enhance business customers digital agility in a rapidly evolving environment. We also provide state-of-the-art security solutions like Threat Management, Intrusion Detection and other business security applications. Due to developing technology, our most advanced business solutions are subject to change periodically. We review and evaluate our strategic and managed service offerings annually, which may result in an updated definition and the recast of our historical financial information to conform to the current period presentation. Any modifications will be reflected in the first quarter. Legacy Voice and Data Services Voice services include services provided to business and governmental customers, either directly or through wholesale arrangements with other service providers. Our circuit-based, traditional data products include switched and dedicated transport services that allow customers to transmit data at high speeds, as well as access to the internet using a DSL connection. Other Services and Equipment Other service revenues include licensing of intellectual property and customer premises equipment. Additional information on our Communications segment is the Overview section of Item 7. WARNERMEDIA Our WarnerMedia segment is comprised of leading media and entertainment businesses that principally develop, produce and distribute feature films, television content, and other content globally; operate cable networks, premium pay television and OTT services domestically and internationally; and operate digital media properties. The WarnerMedia segment provided approximately 18% of 2019 segment operating revenues and 22% of our 2019 total segment contribution. This segment consists primarily of the Turner, Home Box Office and Warner Bros. business units and will include our new HBO Max steaming platform. Turner The Turner business unit operates television networks and related properties that offer branded news, entertainment, sports and kids multi-platform content for consumers around the world. Turner licenses programming to distributors that have contracted to receive and deliver the programming to subscribers, sells advertising on its networks and its digital properties owned or managed for other companies, and licenses its original 6 AT T Inc. Dollars in millions except per share amounts programming and brands and characters for consumer products and other business ventures. Turner revenue includes the following categories: subscription, advertising and content and other. Subscription Turner s programming is primarily delivered by distributors and is available to subscribers of the distributors for viewing live and on demand on television and on various internet-connected devices through the distributors services and Turner s network apps. Turner s license agreements with its distributors are typically multi-year arrangements that provide for annual service fee increases and have fee arrangements that are generally related to the number of subscribers served by the distributor and the networks provided to the distributor. Advertising Advertising arrangements for its networks generally have terms of one year or less. In the U.S., the advertising revenues generally depend on the size and demographics of a network s audience delivered to an advertiser, the number of units of time sold and the price per unit. The price per unit of advertising is determined considering factors such as the type of program or network and/or the time of day the advertising is to be run. Certain advertising inventory is sold in the upfront market in advance each year and other inventory in the scatter market closer to the time a program airs. Outside the U.S., advertising is generally sold at a fixed rate for the unit of time sold, determined by the time of day and network. Turner s digital properties consist of owned assets and those managed and/or operated for sports leagues where Turner holds the related programming rights. Digital properties managed or operated for sports leagues include NBA.com, NBA Mobile and NCAA.com. Content and Other Turner licenses certain owned original programming to international territories and to subscription VOD (referred to as SVOD ) services. Turner also licenses its brands and characters for consumer products and other business ventures. Home Box Office Our Home Box Office business unit owns and operates leading multichannel premium pay television services, HBO and Cinemax. Our Home Box Office business unit revenue includes the following categories: subscription and content and other. We also hold an 88 percent interest in HBO Latin America Group (HBO LAG), 