Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 39 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 39 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 Item 6. [Reserved] 41 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 135 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 135 Item 9B. Other Information 135 Item 9C. Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 135 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 136 Item 11. Executive Compensation 136 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 136 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 136 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 136 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 137 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 144 Signatures 145 1 Ta b l e of C o n t e n t s Glossary of Terms and Abbreviations AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) CAD Canadian dollar CZK Czech Koruna DBRS A global credit rating agency in Toronto DSUs Deferred stock units EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization EPS Earnings per share EROA Assumed long-term expected return on assets EUR Euro FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board GBP British Pound HRK Croatian Kuna JPY Japanese Yen LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate Moody s Moody s Investors Service Limited, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by the SEC NAV Net asset value OCI Other comprehensive income (loss) OPEB Other postretirement benefit plans PBO Projected benefit obligation PSUs Performance share units RSD Serbian Dinar RSUs Restricted stock units S P 500 Standard Poor s 500 Index SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Standard Poor s Standard and Poor s Ratings Services, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by the SEC STRs Sales-to-retailers STWs Sales-to-wholesalers 2017 Tax Act U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act U.K. United Kingdom U.S. United States U.S. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. USD or $ U.S. dollar VIEs Variable interest entities 2 Ta b l e of C o n t e n t s Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10-K ("this report") contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the "Exchange Act"). From time to time, we may also provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Such forward-looking statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements, and include, but are not limited to, statements in Part II Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report, and under the heading " Items Affecting Reported Results ", with respect to expectations regarding the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on our operations, liquidity, financial condition and financial results, expectations regarding future dividends, overall volume trends, consumer preferences, pricing trends, industry forces, cost reduction strategies, including our revitalization plan, expectations of cost inflation, anticipated results, expectations for funding future capital expenditures and operations, debt service capabilities, timing and amounts of debt and leverage levels, shipment levels and profitability, market share and the sufficiency of capital resources. In addition, statements that we make in this report that are not statements of historical fact may also be forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intend," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "anticipate," "seek," "estimate," "outlook," "trends," "future benefits," "potential," "projects," "strategies," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Part I Item 1A "Risk Factors" elsewhere throughout this report, and those described from time to time in our past and future reports filed with the SEC. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when made and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Market and Industry Data The market and industry data used in this report are based on independent industry publications, customers, trade or business organizations, reports by market research firms and other published statistical information from third parties (collectively, the Third Party Information ), as well as information based on management s good faith estimates, which we derive from our review of internal information and independent sources. Such Third Party Information generally states that the information contained therein or provided by such sources has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. Risks Factors Summary Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I,