Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 1 C. Cybersecurity 30 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. [Reserved] 35 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 118 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 118 Item 9B. Other Information 119 Item 9C. Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 119 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 119 Item 11. Executive Compensation 119 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 119 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 120 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 120 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 120 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 126 Signatures 126 1 Table of Contents Glossary of Terms and Abbreviations AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) CAD Canadian dollar CAD Prime The base interest rate utilized by Canadian commercial banks COGS Cost of goods sold CZK Czech Koruna DBRS Morningstar DBRS, a global credit rating agency in Toronto DSUs Deferred stock units EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization EPS Earnings per share EROA Assumed long-term expected return on assets EUR Euro EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offered Rate FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board GBP British Pound GBP Base Rate The base interest rate set by the Bank of England LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate MG A Marketing, general and administrative Moody s Moody s Investors Service Limited, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by the SEC NAV Net asset value OCI Other comprehensive income (loss) OPEB Other postretirement benefit plans PBO Projected benefit obligation PSUs Performance share units RON Romanian leu RSD Serbian Dinar RSUs Restricted stock units S P 500 Standard Poor s 500 Index SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SONIA Sterling Overnight Index Average SKU Stock-keeping unit Standard Poor s Standard and Poor s Ratings Services, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by the SEC STWs Sales-to-wholesalers U.K. United Kingdom U.S. United States U.S. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. USD or $ U.S. dollar USD Prime The base interest rate utilized by U.S. commercial banks VIEs Variable interest entities 2 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10-K ("this report") contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the "Exchange Act"). From time to time, we may also provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Such forward-looking statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements, and include, but are not limited to, statements in Part II Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report, and under the heading Items Affecting Reported Results , with respect to expectations of cost inflation, limited consumer disposable income, consumer preferences, overall volume and market share trends, pricing trends, industry forces, cost reduction strategies, shipment levels and profitability, the sufficiency of capital resources, anticipated results, expectations for funding future capital expenditures and operations, effective tax rate, debt service capabilities, timing and amounts of debt and leverage levels, Preserving the Planet and related environmental initiatives and expectations regarding future dividends and share repurchases. In addition, statements that we make in this report that are not statements of historical fact may also be forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intend," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "anticipate," "seek," "estimate," "outlook," "trends," "future benefits," "potential," "projects," "strategies" and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Part I