ITEM 1 BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS 9 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 18 ITEM 1 C CYBERSECURITY 18 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 20 ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 22 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 22 ITEM 6 [RESERVED] 23 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 24 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 43 ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 43 ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 43 ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 44 ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION 46 PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 46 ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 47 ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 47 ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 47 ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 47 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 81 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains both historical and forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact included that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements, including, in particular, the statements about our plans, objectives, strategies and prospects regarding, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations and business. We have identified some of these forward-looking statements with words like believe, may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, predict, anticipate, estimate or continue and other words and terms of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements may be contained throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations about future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to, among other things, our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risks outlined under Risk Factors, will be important in determining future results. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the risks outlined under Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Since our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, we cannot give any assurance that any of the events anticipated by these forward-looking statements will occur or, if any of them does occur, what impact they will have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements or the risk factors contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under federal securities laws. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include but are not limited to: the sensitivity of our business to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft and our customers profitability, both of which are affected by general economic conditions; supply chain constraints; increases in raw material costs, taxes and labor costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; failure to complete or successfully integrate acquisitions; our indebtedness; current and future geopolitical or other worldwide events, including, without limitation, wars or conflicts and public health crises; cybersecurity threats; risks related to the transition or physical impacts of climate change and other natural disasters or meeting sustainability-related voluntary goals or regulatory requirements; our reliance on certain customers; the United States ( U.S. ) defense budget and risks associated with being a government supplier including government audits and investigations; failure to maintain government or industry approvals; risks related to changes in laws and regulations, including increases in compliance costs; potential environmental liabilities; liabilities arising in connection with litigation; risks and costs associated with our international sales and operations; and other factors. In this report, the term TD Group refers to TransDigm Group Incorporated, which holds all of the outstanding capital stock of TransDigm Inc. The terms Company, TransDigm, we, us, our and similar terms, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to TD Group, together with TransDigm Inc. and its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries for which it has a controlling interest. References to fiscal year mean the year ending or ended September 30. For example, fiscal year 2024 or fiscal 2024 means the period from October 1, 2023 to September 30, 2024. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company TD Group, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, TransDigm Inc., is a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components that are critical to the safe and effective operation of nearly all commercial and military aircraft worldwide. Our products are represented in nearly every commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. We estimate that approximately 90% of our net sales for fiscal year 2024 were generated by proprietary products. Most of our products generate significant aftermarket revenue. Once our parts are designed into and sold on a new aircraft, we generate net sales from aftermarket consumption over the life of that aircraft, which is generally estimated to be approximately 25 to 30 years. A typical platform can be produced for 20 to 30 years, giving us an estimated product life cycle in excess of 50 years. We estimate that approximately 55% of our net sales in fiscal year 2024 were generated from the aftermarket, the vast majority of which come from the commercial and military aftermarkets. Historically, these aftermarket revenues have produced a higher gross profit and have been more stable than net sales to original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). 1 Table of Contents We believe we have achieved steady, long-term growth in sales and improvements in operating performance we believe that due to our competitive strengths and through execution of our value-driven operating strategy. More specifically, focusing our businesses on our value-driven operating strategy of obtaining profitable new business, carefully controlling the cost structure via productivity and cost improvements and pricing our highly engineered value-added products to fairly reflect the value we provide and the resources required to do so has historically resulted in improvements in gross profit and income from operations over the long-term. We also maintain a selective acquisition strategy, concentrating on proprietary commercial aerospace component businesses with significant aftermarket content, where we see a clear path to value creation. Since the inception of our company in 1993, we have acquired 93 businesses and various product lines. Refer to Note 2, Acquisitions, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein for information on the recent acquisitions. Products We primarily design, produce and supply highly engineered proprietary aerospace components with significant aftermarket content. We seek to develop highly customized products to solve specific needs for aircraft operators and manufacturers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves based on engineering, service and manufacturing capabilities. We typically choose not to compete for non-proprietary build to print business because it frequently offers lower margins than proprietary products. We believe that our products have strong brand names within the industry and that we have a reputation for high quality, reliability and strong customer support. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products that we offer to our customers. Each of our product offerings is composed of many individual products that are typically customized to meet the needs of a particular aircraft platform or customer. Our portfolio of products encompasses a vast array of essential components that play pivotal roles on commercial aerospace and defense platforms, as well as other products. For example, TransDigm s operating units make aircraft seatbelts and cockpit security systems that keep passengers and pilots safe; parachutes that protect soldiers, sailors and airmen; and space telescope equipment that helps the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) better understand the universe. Segments The Company s businesses are organized and managed in three reporting segments: Power Control, Airframe and Non-aviation. The Power Control segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market systems and components that predominately provide power to or control power of the aircraft utilizing electronic, fluid, power and mechanical motion control technologies. Major product offerings include mechanical/electromechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, batteries and chargers, databus and power controls, advanced sensor products, switches and relay panels, high performance hoists, winches and lifting devices, cargo loading, handling, delivery systems and electronic components used in the generation, amplification, transmission and reception of microwave signals. Primary customers of this segment are engine and power system and subsystem suppliers, airlines, third party maintenance suppliers, military buying agencies and repair depots. Products are sold in the original equipment and aftermarket market channels. The Airframe segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market systems and components that are used in non-power airframe applications utilizing airframe and cabin structure technologies. Major product offerings include engineered latching and locking devices, engineered rods, engineered connectors and elastomer sealing solutions, cockpit security components and systems, specialized and advanced cockpit displays, engineered audio, radio and antenna systems, specialized lavatory components, seat belts and safety restraints, engineered and customized interior surfaces and related components, thermal protection and insulation, lighting and control technology, parachutes, specialized flight, wind tunnel and jet engine testing services and equipment and complex testing and instrumentation solutions. Primary customers of this segment are airframe manufacturers and cabin system suppliers and subsystem suppliers, airlines, third party maintenance suppliers, military buying agencies and repair depots. Products are sold in the original equipment and aftermarket market channels. The Non-aviation segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market products for non-aviation markets. Major product offerings include seat belts and safety restraints for ground transportation applications, mechanical/electromechanical actuators and controls for space applications, hydraulic/electromechanical actuators and fuel valves for land-based gas turbines, and refueling systems for heavy equipment used in mining, construction and other industries and turbine controls for the energy and oil and gas markets. Primary customers of this segment are off-road vehicle suppliers and subsystem suppliers, child restraint system suppliers, satellite and space system suppliers, manufacturers of heavy equipment used in mining, construction and other industries and turbine original equipment manufacturers, gas pipeline builders and electric utilities. 2 Table of Contents The primary measurement used by management to review and assess the operating performance of each segment is EBITDA As Defined. The Company defines EBITDA As Defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization plus certain non-operating items recorded as corporate expenses including non-cash compensation charges incurred in connection with the Company s stock incentive or deferred compensation plans, foreign currency gains and losses, acquisition-integration costs, acquisition transaction-related expenses, and refinancing costs. Acquisition transaction and integration-related expenses represent costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses into TD Group s operations; facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs; transaction and valuation-related costs for acquisitions comprising deal fees, legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and amortization expense of inventory step-up recorded in connection with the purchase accounting of acquired businesses. EBITDA As Defined is not a measurement of financial performance under U.S. GAAP. Although the Company uses EBITDA As Defined to assess the performance of its business and for various other purposes, the use of this non-GAAP financial measure as an analytical tool has limitations, and it should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company s results of operations as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For financial information about our segments, refer to Note 15, Segments, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. Sales and Marketing Consistent with our overall strategy, our sales and marketing organization is structured to continually develop technical solutions that meet customer needs. In particular, we attempt to focus on products and programs that will lead to high-margin, repeatable sales in the aftermarket. We have structured our sales efforts along our major product offerings, assigning a business unit manager that leads a business unit team. The teams are generally defined based on a grouping of related products with similar functionality, engineering designs and/or applications. The team consists of physically co-located, cross functional personnel who in turn focus their efforts entirely on the products and customers they serve. The team implements the three core value drivers of obtaining profitable new business, carefully controlling the cost structure via productivity and cost improvements and pricing our highly engineered value-added products to fairly reflect the value we provide. The business unit manager drives and directs the activities of the team based on customer needs. Each business unit manager is expected to grow the sales and profitability of the products and services for which he or she is responsible and to achieve the targeted annual level of bookings, net sales, new business and profitability for such products. The business unit managers are assisted by account managers and sales engineers who are responsible for covering major OEM and aftermarket accounts. Account managers and sales engineers are expected to be familiar with the personnel, organization and needs of specific customers to achieve total bookings and new business goals for each account and, together with the business unit managers, to determine when additional resources are required at customer locations. Most of our sales personnel are evaluated, in part, on their bookings and their ability to identify and obtain new business opportunities. Though typically performed by employees, the account manager function may be performed by independent representatives depending on the specific customer, product and geographic location. We also use a number of distributors to provide logistical support as well as serve as a primary customer contact with certain smaller accounts. Boeing Distribution Services, Inc. and Satair A/S (a subsidiary of Airbus S.A.S.) among others, are our major distributors. Manufacturing and Engineering We maintain approximately 120 manufacturing facilities. Most of our manufacturing facilities are comprised of manufacturing, distribution and engineering functions, and most facilities have certain administrative functions, including management, sales and finance. We continually strive to improve productivity and reduce costs, including automation projects, rationalization of operations, developing improved control systems that allow for accurate accounting and reporting, investing in equipment, tooling, information systems (including cybersecurity) and implementing broad-based employee training programs. Management believes that our manufacturing systems and equipment contribute to our ability to compete by permitting us to meet the rigorous tolerances and cost sensitive price structure of aircraft component customers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by producing highly engineered products with high quality, reliability and timely delivery. Our engineering costs are recorded in cost of sales and in selling and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of income. Research and development costs are recorded in selling and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of income. The aggregate of engineering expense and research and development expense represents approximately 8% of our operating units aggregate costs, or approximately 4% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal year 2024. Our proprietary products, and particularly our new product initiatives, are designed by our engineers and are intended to serve the needs of the aircraft component industry. These proprietary designs must withstand the extraordinary conditions and stresses that will be endured by products during use and meet the rigorous demands of our customers tolerance and quality requirements. The business unit team, inclusive of operations, engineering, quality and sales, and the customer work together through the design and development of a product. Refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein with respect to the total costs of research and development. 3 Table of Contents We use sophisticated equipment and procedures to comply with quality requirements, specifications and aviation authority and OEM requirements. We perform a variety of testing procedures as required by our customers, such as testing under different temperature, humidity and altitude levels, flammability testing, shock and vibration testing and X-ray fluorescent measurement. These procedures, together with other customer approved techniques for document, process and quality control, are used throughout our manufacturing facilities. Customers We predominantly serve customers in the commercial, regional, business jet and general aviation aftermarket, which accounted for approximately 31% of our net sales for fiscal year 2024; the commercial aerospace OEM market, comprising large commercial transport manufacturers and regional and business jet manufacturers, which accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales for fiscal year 2024; and the defense market (which includes defense OEMs and aftermarket sales to the U.S. and friendly foreign governments), which accounted for approximately 40% of our net sales for fiscal year 2024. Non-aerospace net sales comprised approximately 2% of our net sales for fiscal year 2024. Our customers include: (1) distributors of aerospace components; (2) worldwide commercial airlines, including national and regional airlines; (3) large commercial transport and regional and business aircraft OEMs; (4) various armed forces of the United States and friendly foreign governments; (5) defense OEMs; (6) system suppliers; and (7) various other industrial customers. Our top ten customers for fiscal year 2024 accounted for approximately 42% of our net sales. Products supplied to many of our customers are used on multiple platforms. None of our customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of our net sales for fiscal year 2024. The markets in which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced upswings and downturns. The demand for our commercial aftermarket parts and services depends on, among other things, the breadth of our installed OEM base, revenue passenger kilometers ( RPKs ), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet, the percentage of the worldwide fleet that is in warranty, and airline profitability. The demand for defense products is specifically dependent on government budget trends, military campaigns and political pressures. Competition The niche markets within the aerospace industry that we serve are relatively fragmented and we face several competitors for many of the products and services we provide. Due to the global nature of the commercial aircraft industry, competition in these categories comes from both U.S. and foreign companies. Competitors in our product offerings range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately-held entities with only one or two components in their entire product portfolios. We compete on the basis of engineering, manufacturing and marketing high quality and reliable products, which we believe meet or exceed the performance and maintenance requirements of our customers, consistent and timely delivery, and superior customer service and support. The industry s stringent regulatory, certification and technical requirements and the investments necessary in the development and certification of products may create disincentives for potential new competitors for certain products. If customers receive products that meet or exceed expectations and performance standards, we believe that they will have a reduced incentive to certify another supplier because of the cost and time of the technical design and testing certification process. In addition, we believe that the availability, dependability and safety of our products are reasons for our customers to continue long-term supplier relationships. Government Contracts Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to United States Government ( U.S. Government ) agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: (1) suspend us from receiving new contracts; (2) terminate existing contracts; (3) reduce the value of existing contracts; (4) audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; (5) control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; and (6) seek repayment of contract related payments under certain circumstances. Violations of government procurement laws could result in civil or criminal penalties. Governmental Regulation The commercial aircraft component industry is highly regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) in the United States and by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency in Europe and other agencies throughout the world, while the military aircraft component industry is governed by military quality specifications. We, and the components we manufacture, are required to be certified by one or more of these entities or agencies, and, in many cases, by individual OEMs, in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models. We must also satisfy the requirements of our customers, including OEMs and airlines that are subject to FAA regulations, and provide these customers with products and services that comply with the government regulations applicable to commercial flight operations. In addition, the FAA and other aviation authorities require that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft components. We believe that we currently satisfy or exceed these maintenance standards in our repair and overhaul services. We also maintain several FAA-approved repair stations. 4 Table of Contents In addition, our businesses are subject to many other laws and requirements typically applicable to manufacturers and exporters. Without limiting the foregoing, sales of many of our products that will be used on aircraft owned by foreign entities are subject to compliance with export control laws and the manufacture of our products and the operations of our businesses, including the disposal of hazardous wastes, are subject to compliance with applicable environmental laws. Market Channels Commercial Aftermarket The key market factors in the commercial aftermarket include RPKs and the size and activity level of the worldwide fleet of aircraft and the percentage of the fleet that is in warranty. In fiscal 2024, the commercial aerospace industry continued to rebound from the adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since February 2024, both domestic and international RPKs have surpassed 2019 (i.e., pre-pandemic) levels and have remained on a steady growth trend. The 2025 leading indicators or industry consensus suggest a continuation of current trends supported by continued RPK growth. Commercial OEM Market Our commercial transport OEM shipments and revenues generally run ahead of aircraft delivery schedules. Consistent with prior years, our fiscal 2025 shipments will be a function of, among other things, the estimated 2025 and 2026 commercial aircraft production rates for Boeing and Airbus. In fiscal 2024, we experienced improved sales in the commercial OEM sector primarily due to increased aircraft production by Boeing and Airbus. Airline demand for new aircraft remains high, and the OEMs are working to increase aircraft production. However, aircraft production rates remain well below pre-pandemic levels as the struggles in the OEM supply chain persist. Due to these factors, it is difficult to accurately predict the OEM build rates for 2025. Our businesses continually seek to provide innovative solutions for our customers and others in the commercial aerospace and defense industries. These include new touchless products and environmentally friendly products, such as the brushless starter generator and sustainable decorative laminates. Defense Our military business fluctuates from year-to-year, and is dependent, to a degree, on government budget constraints, the timing of orders, macro and micro dynamics with respect to the U.S. Department of Defense ( DOD ) procurement policy and the extent of global conflicts, such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas. Also, delays in government spending outlays and government funding reprioritization, such as shifting funds to efforts to assist friendly countries in conflicts, provides for further unpredictability in the military spending outlook. For a variety of reasons, the military spending outlook is very uncertain, though recent DOD budgets have trended upwards. Defense sales in fiscal 2024 increased compared to fiscal 2023 at a higher rate than in recent fiscal years due to improving U.S. Government defense spend outlays. DOD budgets have trended upwards as geopolitical challenges such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas, and military modernization efforts are driving demand. Other Considerations Historically, our presence in both the commercial aerospace and military sectors of the aerospace industry has served to mitigate the impact on our business of any specific industry risk. We service a diversified customer base in the commercial and military aerospace industry, and we provide components to a diverse installed base of aircraft, which mitigates our exposure to any individual airframe platform. At times, declines in net sales in one channel have been offset by increased net sales in another channel. However, due to differences between the profitability of our products sold to OEM and aftermarket customers, variation in product mix can cause variation in gross profit. Factors including customer inventory level adjustments, supply chain issues, unannounced changes in order patterns, strikes, facility shutdowns caused by fires, hurricanes, health crises or other incidents and mergers and acquisitions can cause short-term disruptions in our quarterly shipment patterns as compared to previous quarters and the same periods in prior years. As such, it can be difficult to determine longer-term trends in our business based on quarterly comparisons. To normalize for short-term fluctuations, we tend to look at our performance over several quarters or years of activity rather than discrete short-term periods. Additionally, there are fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket product mix from quarter-to-quarter that may cause positive or negative variations in gross profit since commercial aftermarket net sales have historically produced higher gross profit margins than net sales to commercial OEMs. Again, in many instances these are timing events between quarters and must be balanced with macro aerospace industry indicators. 5 Table of Contents Raw Materials We require the use of various raw materials in our manufacturing processes. We