ITEM 1 BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS 9 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 17 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 18 ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 20 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 20 ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 22 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 28 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 44 ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 44 ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 44 ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 45 ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION 47 PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47 ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 48 ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 48 ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 49 ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 49 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 72 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact included that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements, including, in particular, the statements about our plans, objectives, strategies and prospects regarding, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations and business. We have identified some of these forward-looking statements with words like believe, may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, predict, anticipate, estimate or continue and other words and terms of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements may be contained throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations about future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to, among other things, our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risks outlined under Risk Factors, will be important in determining future results. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described under Risk Factors in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. Since our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, we cannot give any assurance that any of the events anticipated by these forward-looking statements will occur or, if any of them does occur, what impact they will have on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements or the risk factors contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under federal securities laws. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include but are not limited to: the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has on the TransDigm Group Incorporated's business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; the sensitivity of TransDigm Group Incorporated's business to the number of flight hours that its customers planes spend aloft and its customers profitability, both of which are affected by general economic conditions; future geopolitical or other worldwide events; cyber-security threats and natural disasters; TransDigm Group Incorporated's reliance on certain customers; the United States ( U.S. ) defense budget and risks associated with being a government supplier including government audits and investigations; failure to maintain government or industry approvals; failure to complete or successfully integrate acquisitions, including TransDigm Group Incorporated's acquisition of Esterline Technologies Corporation ( Esterline ); TransDigm Group Incorporated's indebtedness; potential environmental liabilities; liabilities arising in connection with litigation; increases in raw material costs, taxes and labor costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; risks and costs associated with TransDigm Group Incorporated's international sales and operations; and other risk factors. In this report, the term TD Group refers to TransDigm Group Incorporated, which holds all of the outstanding capital stock of TransDigm Inc. The terms Company, TransDigm, we, us, our and similar terms, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to TD Group, together with TransDigm Inc. and its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries for which it has a controlling interest. References to fiscal year mean the year ending or ended September 30. For example, fiscal year 2020 or fiscal 2020 means the period from October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company TD Group, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, TransDigm, Inc., is a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. We estimate that approximately 90% of our net sales for fiscal year 2020 were generated by proprietary products. For fiscal year 2020, we estimate that we generated approximately 80% of our net sales from products in which we are the sole source provider. 1 Table of Contents Most of our products generate significant aftermarket revenue. Once our parts are designed into and sold on a new aircraft, we generate net sales from aftermarket consumption over the life of that aircraft, which is generally estimated to be approximately 25 to 30 years. A typical platform can be produced for 20 to 30 years, giving us an estimated product life cycle in excess of 50 years. We estimate that approximately 49% of our net sales in fiscal year 2020 were generated from aftermarket sales, the vast majority of which come from the commercial and military aftermarkets. Historically, these aftermarket revenues have produced a higher gross margin and been more stable than sales to original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). Products We primarily design, produce and supply highly engineered proprietary aerospace components with significant aftermarket content. We seek to develop highly customized products to solve specific needs for aircraft operators and manufacturers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves based on engineering, service and manufacturing capabilities. We typically choose not to compete for non-proprietary build to print business because it frequently offers lower margins than proprietary products. We believe that our products have strong brand names within the industry and that we have a reputation for high quality, reliability and strong customer support. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products that we offer to our customers. Our major product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, batteries and chargers, engineered latching and locking devices, engineered rods, engineered connectors and elastomer sealing solutions, databus and power controls, cockpit security components and systems, specialized and advanced cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, seat belts and safety restraints, engineered and customized interior surfaces and related components, advanced sensor products, switches and relay panels, thermal protection and insulation, lighting and control technology, parachutes, high performance hoists, winches and lifting devices, and cargo loading, handling and delivery systems. COVID-19 Pandemic In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus ("COVID-19") surfaced in Wuhan, China, and has since spread to other countries, including the United States. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The pandemic has resulted in governments around the world implementing stringent measures to help control the spread of the virus, including quarantines, shelter in place and stay at home orders, travel restrictions, business curtailments and other measures. As a result, demand for travel declined at a rapid pace and has remained depressed. The exact timing and pace of the recovery is indeterminable as certain markets have reopened, some of which have since experienced a resurgence of COVID-19 cases, while others, particularly international markets, remain closed or are enforcing extended quarantines. Governments and central banks in several parts of the world have enacted fiscal and monetary stimulus measures to counteract the impact of COVID-19. The commercial aerospace industry, in particular, has been significantly disrupted, both domestically and internationally. The impact of COVID-19 is fluid and continues to evolve, and the shape and speed of recovery for the commercial aerospace industry remains uncertain. We took immediate and aggressive action to minimize the spread of COVID-19 in our workplaces and reduce costs. Since the early days of the pandemic, we have been following guidance from the World Health Organization and the U.S. Center for Disease Control to protect employees and prevent the spread of the virus within all of our facilities globally. Some of the actions implemented include: flexible work-from-home scheduling; alternate shift schedules; pre-shift temperature screenings, where allowed by law; social distancing; appropriate personal protective equipment; facility deep cleaning; and paid quarantine time for impacted employees. Material actions to reduce costs included: (1) reducing our workforce to align operations with customer demand; (2) implementing unpaid furloughs and salary reductions; and (3) delaying non-essential capital projects and minimizing discretionary spending. At the same time, we addressed the ongoing needs of our business to continue to serve our customers. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many of our businesses have taken the opportunity to explore new business opportunities by working on developing highly engineered solutions for emerging needs arising from the pandemic. Product solutions currently being explored include anti-viral or antimicrobial technology, air purification, and touchless technologies, among others. Segments The Company s businesses are organized and managed in three reporting segments: Power Control, Airframe and Non-aviation. 2 Table of Contents The Power Control segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market systems and components that predominately provide power to or control power of the aircraft utilizing electronic, fluid, power and mechanical motion control technologies. Major product offerings include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, batteries and chargers, databus and power controls, advanced sensor products, switches and relay panels, high performance hoists, winches and lifting devices, and cargo loading, handling and delivery systems. Primary customers of this segment are engine and power system and subsystem suppliers, airlines, third party maintenance suppliers, military buying agencies and repair depots. Products are sold in the original equipment and aftermarket market channels. The Airframe segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market systems and components that are used in non-power airframe applications utilizing airframe and cabin structure technologies. Major product offerings include engineered latching and locking devices, engineered rods, engineered connectors and elastomer sealing solutions, cockpit security components and systems, specialized and advanced cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, seat belts and safety restraints, engineered and customized interior surfaces and related components, thermal protection and insulation, lighting and control technology and parachutes. Primary customers of this segment are airframe manufacturers and cabin system suppliers and subsystem suppliers, airlines, third party maintenance suppliers, military buying agencies and repair depots. Products are sold in the original equipment and aftermarket market channels. The Non-aviation segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market products for non-aviation markets. Major product offerings include headsets for high-noise, medium-noise, and dismounted applications, seat belts and safety restraints for ground transportation applications, mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls for space applications, hydraulic/electromechanical actuators and fuel valves for land based gas turbines, and refueling systems for heavy equipment used in mining, construction and other industries and turbine controls for the energy and oil and gas markets. Primary customers of this segment are off-road vehicle suppliers and subsystem suppliers, child restraint system suppliers, satellite and space system suppliers, manufacturers of heavy equipment used in mining, construction and other industries and turbine original equipment manufacturers, gas pipeline builders and electric utilities. The primary measurement used by management to review and assess the operating performance of each segment is EBITDA As Defined. The Company defines EBITDA As Defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization plus certain non-operating items recorded as corporate expenses including refinancing costs, acquisition-related costs, transaction-related costs, foreign currency gains and losses, and non-cash compensation charges incurred in connection with the Company s stock incentive plans. Acquisition-related costs represent accounting adjustments to inventory associated with acquisitions of businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was sold; costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into the Company s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs; transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax diligence expenses and valuation costs that are required to be expensed as incurred and other acquisition accounting adjustments. For financial information about our segments, see Note 17, Segments, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. Sales and Marketing Consistent with our overall strategy, our sales and marketing organization is structured to continually develop technical solutions that meet customer needs. In particular, we attempt to focus on products and programs that will lead to high-margin, repeatable sales in the aftermarket. We have structured our sales efforts along our major product offerings, assigning a business unit manager to certain products. Each business unit manager is expected to grow the sales and profitability of the products for which he or she is responsible and to achieve the targeted annual level of bookings, sales, new business and profitability for such products. The business unit managers are assisted by account managers and sales engineers who are responsible for covering major OEM and aftermarket accounts. Account managers and sales engineers are expected to be familiar with the personnel, organization and needs of specific customers to achieve total bookings and new business goals for each account and, together with the business unit managers, to determine when additional resources are required at customer locations. Most of our sales personnel are evaluated, in part, on their bookings and their ability to identify and obtain new business opportunities. Though typically performed by employees, the account manager function may be performed by independent representatives depending on the specific customer, product and geographic location. We also use a number of distributors to provide logistical support as well as serve as a primary customer contact with certain smaller accounts. Our major distributors are Boeing Distribution Inc. (formerly known as Aviall, Inc.) and Satair A/S (a subsidiary of Airbus S.A.S.). 3 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Engineering We maintain approximately 105 manufacturing facilities. Most of our manufacturing facilities are comprised of manufacturing, distribution and engineering functions, and most facilities have certain administrative functions, including management, sales and finance. We continually strive to improve productivity and reduce costs, including rationalization of operations, developing improved control systems that allow for accurate accounting and reporting, investing in equipment, tooling, information systems and implementing broad-based employee training programs. Management believes that our manufacturing systems and equipment contribute to our ability to compete by permitting us to meet the rigorous tolerances and cost sensitive price structure of aircraft component customers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by producing uniquely engineered products with high quality and timely delivery. Our engineering costs are recorded in cost of sales and in selling and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income. Research and development costs are recorded in selling and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income. The aggregate of engineering expense and research and development expense represents approximately 11% of our operating units aggregate costs, or approximately 6% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal year 2020. Our proprietary products, and particularly our new product initiatives, are designed by our engineers and are intended to serve the needs of the aircraft component industry. These proprietary designs must withstand the extraordinary conditions and stresses that will be endured by products during use and meet the rigorous demands of our customers tolerance and quality requirements. We use sophisticated equipment and procedures to comply with quality requirements, specifications and Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) and OEM requirements. We perform a variety of testing procedures as required by our customers, such as testing under different temperature, humidity and altitude levels, flammability testing, shock and vibration testing and X-ray fluorescent measurement. These procedures, together with other customer approved techniques for document, process and quality control, are used throughout our manufacturing facilities. Refer to Note 3, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein with respect to total costs of research and development. Customers We predominantly serve customers in the commercial, regional, business jet and general aviation aftermarket, which accounted for approximately 26% of net sales for fiscal year 2020; the commercial aerospace OEM market, comprising large commercial transport manufacturers and regional and business jet manufacturers, which accounted for approximately 26% of net sales for fiscal year 2020; and the defense market, which accounted for approximately 43% of net sales for fiscal year 2020. Non-aerospace sales comprised approximately 5% of our net sales for fiscal year 2020. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and its adverse impact on air travel worldwide, the commercial aerospace industry has been significantly disrupted. The defense aerospace market has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic to a lesser extent than the commercial aerospace market due to certain supply chain disruptions as well as stay at home orders, quarantines, etc. impacting the government procurement workforce which has slowed production and/or orders. The significant adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the commercial aerospace market channels has led to the defense market comprising a greater percentage of our net sales in fiscal 2020 than typical. In our prior five fiscal years, fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2019, defense market sales ranged from 29 to 37% of net sales. When the commercial aerospace industry recovers from the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we would expect defense market sales to account for a percentage of net sales that is relatively in line with our historical results prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our customers include: (1) distributors of aerospace components; (2) worldwide commercial airlines, including national and regional airlines; (3) large commercial transport and regional and business aircraft OEMs; (4) various armed forces of the United States and friendly foreign governments; (5) defense OEMs; (6) system suppliers; and (7) various other industrial customers. Our top ten customers for fiscal year 2020 accounted for approximately 44% of our net sales. Products supplied to many of our customers are used on multiple platforms. None of our customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of our sales for fiscal year 2020. The markets in which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced upswings and downturns. The demand for our commercial aftermarket parts and services depends on, among other things, the breadth of our installed OEM base, revenue passenger miles ( RPMs ), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet, the percentage of the worldwide fleet that is in warranty, and airline profitability. The demand for defense products is specifically dependent on government budget trends, military campaigns and political pressures. 4 Table of Contents Competition The niche markets within the aerospace industry that we serve are relatively fragmented and we face several competitors for many of the products and services we provide. Due to the global nature of the commercial aircraft industry, competition in these categories comes from both U.S. and foreign companies. Competitors in our product offerings range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately-held entities with only one or two components in their entire product portfolios. We compete on the basis of engineering, manufacturing and marketing high quality products, which we believe meet or exceed the performance and maintenance requirements of our customers, consistent and timely delivery, and superior customer service and support. The industry s stringent regulatory, certification and technical requirements and the investments necessary in the development and certification of products may create disincentives for potential new competitors for certain products. If customers receive products that meet or exceed expectations and performance standards, we believe that they will have a reduced incentive to certify another supplier because of the cost and time of the technical design and testing certification process. In addition, we believe that the availability, dependability and safety of our products are reasons for our customers to continue long-term supplier relationships. Government Contracts Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to United States Government ( U.S. Government ) agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: (1) suspend us from receiving new contracts; (2) terminate existing contracts; (3) reduce the value of existing contracts; (4) audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; (5) control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; and (6) seek repayment of contract related payments under certain circumstances. Violations of government procurement laws could result in civil or criminal penalties. Governmental Regulation The commercial aircraft component industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and by the Joint Aviation Authorities in Europe and other agencies throughout the world, while the military aircraft component industry is governed by military quality specifications. We, and the components we manufacture, are required to be certified by one or more of these entities or agencies, and, in many cases, by individual OEMs, in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models. We must also satisfy the requirements of our customers, including OEMs and airlines that are subject to FAA regulations, and provide these customers with products and services that comply with the government regulations applicable to commercial flight operations. In addition, the FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft components. We believe that we currently satisfy or exceed these maintenance standards in our repair and overhaul services. We also maintain several FAA-approved repair stations. In addition, our businesses are subject to many other laws and requirements typically applicable to manufacturers and exporters. Without limiting the foregoing, sales of many of our products that will be used on aircraft owned by foreign entities are subject to compliance with export control laws and the manufacture of our products and the operations of our businesses, including the disposal of hazardous wastes, are subject to compliance with applicable environmental laws. Market Channels The commercial aerospace industry, including the aftermarket and OEM markets, is impacted by the health of the global economy and geopolitical events around the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in governments around the world implementing stringent measures to help control the spread of the virus, including quarantines, shelter-in-place and stay at home orders, travel restrictions, business curtailments and other measures. As a result, demand for travel declined at a rapid pace and remains depressed. The exact timing and pace of the recovery is indeterminable as certain markets have reopened, some of which have experienced a resurgence of COVID-19 cases, while others, particularly international markets, remain closed or are enforcing extended quarantines. The commercial aerospace industry, in particular, has been significantly disrupted by the pandemic, both domestically and internationally. The commercial aerospace industry has experienced a steep decline in RPMs in 2020 due to the pandemic s impact on worldwide air travel demand. Also, as a result of the pandemic and decreased demand in commercial air travel, the commercial OEM sector has experienced reductions in commercial OEM production rates, including reductions at the two largest commercial OEMs, The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S, in addition to various airlines deferring or cancelling orders. T he impact of COVID-19 is fluid and continues to evolve, and the shape and speed of the recovery for the commercial aerospace industry remains uncertain . 5 Table of Contents The defense aerospace market is dependent on government budget constraints, the timing of orders, political pressures and the extent of global conflicts. It is not necessarily affected by general economic conditions that affect the commercial aerospace industry. The defense aerospace market has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic to a lesser extent than the commercial aerospace market due to certain supply chain disruptions as well as stay at home orders, quarantines, etc. impacting the government procurement workforce which has slowed production and/or orders. Historically, our presence in both the commercial aerospace and military sectors of the aerospace industry has served to mitigate the impact on our business of any specific industry risk. We service a diversified customer base in the commercial and military aerospace industry, and we provide components to a diverse installed base of aircraft, which mitigates our exposure to any individual airframe platform. At times, declines in sales in one channel have been offset by increased sales in another channel. However, due to differences between the profitability of our products sold to OEM and aftermarket customers, variation in product mix can cause variation in gross margin. Outside of the significant market disruption caused by COVID-19, there are many short-term factors (including customer inventory level adjustments, unannounced changes in order patterns, strikes, facility shutdowns caused by fires, hurricanes, health crises or other incidents and mergers and acquisitions) that can cause short-term disruptions in our quarterly shipment patterns as compared to previous quarters and the same periods in prior years. As such, it can be difficult to determine longer-term trends in our business based on quarterly comparison