Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation s 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 51 Item 9B. Other Information 52 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 52 Item 11. Executive Compensation 52 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 53 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 53 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 53 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 54 INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION 55 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 98 EXHIBIT INDEX 99 SIGNATURES 103 Explanatory Notes In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as the Company or Teledyne . For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see the discussion beginning on page 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. i Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Who We Are Teledyne Technologies Incorporated provides enabling technologies for industrial growth markets that require advanced technology and high reliability. These markets include aerospace and defense, factory automation, air and water quality environmental monitoring, electronics design and development, oceanographic research, deepwater oil and gas exploration and production, medical imaging and pharmaceutical research. Our products include digital imaging sensors, cameras and systems within the visible, infrared and X-ray spectra, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine and environmental applications, harsh environment interconnects, electronic test and measurement equipment, aircraft information management systems, and defense electronics and satellite communication subsystems. We also supply engineered systems for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. We differentiate ourselves from many of our direct competitors by having a customer and company-sponsored applied research center that augments our product development expertise. Our principal executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362. Our telephone number is (805) 373-4545. Our website address is www.teledyne.com. We are a Delaware corporation that was spun-off as an independent company on November 29, 1999. Strategy Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets of instrumentation, digital imaging, aerospace and defense electronics and engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high barriers to entry and include specialized products and services not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions and through product development. We continue to focus on balanced and disciplined capital deployment among capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions and share repurchases. We aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins and earnings by emphasizing cost containment and cost reductions in all aspects of our business. At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Using complementary technology across our businesses and internal research and development, we seek to create new products to grow our company and expand our addressable markets. We continue to evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy. Our Recent Acquisitions Consistent with our strategy, during 2019, 2018 and 2017, we made acquisitions and investments totaling $1,261.2 million, net of cash acquired. Our 2019 and 2017 acquisitions, as well as our most recent 2020 acquisition, include the following: 2020 Acquisition To extend our protocol test solution and products to the electronic storage industry and data centers: OakGate Technology, Inc., based in Loomis, California, a provider of software and hardware designed to test electronic data storage devices from development through manufacturing and end-use applications. We paid $28.0 million, net of cash acquired. 2019 Acquisitions To expand our range of digital imaging capabilities for life sciences, academic research and customized original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ) industrial imaging solutions: Scientific imaging businesses of Roper Technologies, Inc., principally located in the United States and Canada and including Princeton Instruments, Photometrics and Lumenera. Princeton Instruments and Photometrics manufacture state-of-the-art cameras, spectrographs and optics for advanced research in physical sciences, life sciences research and spectroscopy imaging. Applications and markets include materials analysis, quantum technology and cell biology imaging using fluorescence and chemiluminescence. Lumenera primarily provides rugged USB-based customized cameras for markets such as traffic management, as well as life sciences applications. We paid $224.8 million for these scientific camera businesses, net of cash acquired. To add complementary industrial gas and flame detection capabilities to our environmental instrumentation businesses: Gas and flame detection businesses of 3M Company, primarily located in France, the United Kingdom and the United States and including Oldham, Simtronics, Gas Measurement Instruments, Detcon and select Scott Safety products. The gas and flame detection business provides a portfolio of fixed and portable industrial gas and flame detection instruments used in a variety of industries including petrochemical, power generation, oil and gas, food and beverage, mining and waste water treatment. The rugged gas analyzers feature fast response time, intrinsically safe sensors and satisfy multiple international certification standards. We paid $233.5 million for these gas and flame detection businesses, net of cash acquired. 1 Table of Contents To expand our digital imaging foundry capacity and capabilities for biotech applications: Micralyne Inc., ( Micralyne ) based in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, a foundry providing micro electromechanical systems ( MEMS ) devices. In particular, Micralyne possesses unique microfluidic technology for biotech applications, as well as capabilities in non-silicon-based MEMS (e.g., gold, polymers) often required for human body compatibility. We paid $25.7 million for Micralyne, net of cash acquired. 2017 Acquisitions: To expand our digital imaging, space science, semiconductor and microwave solutions capabilities: e2v technologies plc ( e2v ) principally located in Chelmsford, United Kingdom and Grenoble, France, which provides high performance image sensors and custom camera solutions and application specific standard products for the machine vision market. In addition, e2v provides high performance space qualified imaging sensors and arrays for space science and astronomy. e2v also produces components and subsystems that deliver high reliability radio frequency power generation for healthcare, industrial and defense applications. Finally, the company provides high reliability semiconductors and board-level solutions for use in aerospace, space and communications applications. We paid $740.6 million for e2v, net of cash acquired. To expand our environmental and laboratory instrumentation capabilities: Assets of Scientific Systems, Inc. ( SSI ), located in State College, PA, which manufactures precision components and specialized subassemblies used primarily in analytical and diagnostic instrumentation, such as high performance liquid chromatography systems and specific medical devices. We paid $31.3 million for SSI. Our Business Segments Our businesses are aligned in four segments: Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense Electronics and Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business segments can be found in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Instrumentation Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control instruments for marine, environmental, industrial and other applications, as well as electronic test and measurement equipment. We also provide power and communications connectivity devices for distributed instrumentation systems and sensor networks deployed in mission critical, harsh environments. Marine Instrumentation We offer a variety of products designed for use in harsh underwater environments, instruments that measure currents and other physical properties in the water column, systems that create acoustic images of objects beneath the water s surface, including the bottom of a body of water, and sensors that determine the geologic structure below the bottom. We also design and manufacture vehicles that utilize and transport these sensors over and beneath the water s surface. We design and manufacture geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones, seismic energy sources and specialty products used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. Our Acoustic Doppler Current Profilers ( ADCPs ) precisely measure currents at varying depths in oceans and rivers, and our Doppler Velocity Logs ( DVLs ) are used for navigation by civilian and military surface ships, unmanned underwater vehicles and naval divers. We design and manufacture inertial sensing and navigation products, as well as subsea pipe and cable detection systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets. We also design and manufacture remotely controlled and tethered instrumentation deployment vehicles used for current measurement, seafloor mapping and measurement of physical parameters such as salinity. Additionally, we design and manufacture single and multibeam hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port surveys, dredging, pre- and post-installation of offshore energy infrastructure and other challenging underwater applications. Our multibeam sonar systems range from portable high-resolution systems used on tripods, autonomous and remotely operated underwater vehicles ( AUVs and ROVs ) to full ocean depth vessel-mounted oceanographic systems as well as sub bottom profilers that can survey structures beneath the seafloor. Our multibeam sonar systems can be used to create highly accurate maps of underwater offshore constructions, wrecks or quay walls in harbors, and in particular, high-quality maps of the seafloor. Our products are being utilized in both commercial and defense applications where we provide systems for detecting mines in the water. We provide solutions that are ready-to-operate and fully installed, including a comprehensive software package that ties together the variety of sensors that may be configured on an AUV or ROV platform. We provide a broad range of end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, naval defense, oceanographic and telecom markets. We manufacture subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems and subsea pressure vessel penetrators and connector systems with glass-to-metal seals. Our waterproof and splash-proof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable assemblies are used in underwater equipment and submerged monitoring systems. Our Teledyne Marine group and Teledyne Scientific Company continue to work collaboratively to improve the 2 Table of Contents reliability of materials exposed to ultra-deep-sea conditions. We also manufacture rugged cable assemblies for land-based energy and other industrial applications. Other marine products used by the U.S. Navy and commercial customers include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication and optical underwater cameras and LED lighting sources. We manufacture complete AUV systems. Our marine gliders use a silent buoyancy engine for propulsion that takes advantage of changes in buoyancy in conjunction with wings and tail steering to convert vertical motion to horizontal displacement, thereby propelling the system on a programmed route with low power consumption. Glider applications range from oceanographic research to persistent surveillance systems for the U.S. Navy. The modular design of our battery-powered, man-portable Gavia AUV allows for rapid sensor bay reconfiguration and battery replacement capability. Our SeaRaptor AUV will permit deep water survey with operational depths of 6000 meters. Our Slocum gliders, as well as our ADCPs, are being used as part of the National Science Foundation s Ocean Observatories Initiative to collect physical, chemical, geological and biological data from the ocean and the seafloor on coastal, regional and global scales. We design and manufacture Inspection Class ROVs used in maritime security, military, search and rescue, aquaculture, and scientific research applications. Using our acoustic technology, we also provide quality control and package integrity systems under the Taptone brand to the food and beverage, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. Environmental Instrumentation We offer a wide range of products used for environmental monitoring, instruments that enable measurement and monitoring of key air environmental parameters as well as gas purity and content for industrial and manufacturing applications, sensors for the measurement and monitoring of the physical and chemical properties of untreated water, and laboratory systems that improve sample acquisition, handling and preparation for analysis. We also provide instruments to measure toxic and combustible gases for personnel and site safety. Our instrumentation monitors trace levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen and ozone, as well as particulate pollution, in order to measure the quality of the air we breathe. We also supply monitoring systems for the detection, measurement and automated reporting of air pollutants from industrial stack emissions, ozone generators and other process gas monitoring instruments. We serve the process control and monitoring needs of industrial plants with instruments that include gas analyzers, and vacuum and flow measurement devices. We were a pioneer in the development of precision trace oxygen analyzers, and we now manufacture a wide range of process gas and liquid analysis products for the measurement of process contaminants, hydrocarbons, combustibles, oil-in-water, moisture, pH and many other parameters. Our instrumentation is also used to detect a variety of water quality parameters. Our sampler products include portable, refrigerated and specialty samplers used in hazardous location applications and water samplers that utilize both peristatic and vacuum technologies. Flow meters include ultrasonic, submerged probe, bubbler and area velocity models. Laser technology is now part of our flow capabilities. Our custom analyzer systems provide turn-key solutions to complex process monitoring and/or control applications found in petrochemical and refinery facilities. We provide laboratory instrumentation that complements our process or field environmental instrumentation. We manufacture laboratory instrumentation that automates the preparation and concentration of organic samples for the analysis of trace levels of volatile organic compounds by a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer. We also provide laboratory instrumentation for the detection of total organic carbon and total nitrogen in water and wastewater samples. In addition, we provide inductively coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards. We provide laboratory automation and sample introduction systems. Our advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other environmental and geological samples. Our high-precision, high pressure syringe pumps measure process extraction rates of fluids ranging from liquefied gases to viscous tars. We manufacture and sell positive-displacement piston pumps utilized in a wide variety of analytical, clinical, preparative and fluid-metering applications. In addition, we manufacture liquid chromatography instruments and accessories for the purification of organic compounds, which include highly sensitive evaporative light scanning detectors. Our liquid chromatography customers include pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and development. Finally, we manufacture instruments that are used by pharmaceutical scientists to evaluate the release rate characteristics and physical properties of various dosage forms to ensure the safety and efficacy of medicines worldwide. As a result of a 2019 acquisition, we manufacture a wide range of gas detection and measurement instruments, both portable and fixed installation, to monitor toxic gases such as hydrogen sulfide and chlorine and to detect combustible gases. These instruments are used at industrial sites such as paper mills and automobile factories as well as in the oil and gas sector at refineries. In addition, utility companies for natural gas and water supply use portable instruments to ensure the safety of their technicians. 3 Table of Contents Test and Measurement Instrumentation We develop, manufacture, sell and license high-performance oscilloscopes and high-speed protocol analyzers for various communication links. We also provide related test and measurement equipment, probes, accessories and application solutions. With these additional capabilities, we are able to configure our platforms to provide high-value-testing solutions for customers, developing products in all industry sectors, that rely on increasingly complex electronic signals. To a lesser extent, we provide extended warranty contracts, maintenance contracts and repairs and calibrations on our instruments after their warranties expire. We believe our test and measurement products provide unique, world-class capabilities that enable the designers of complex electronic systems in many industry sectors to bring their products to market reliably and quickly. Our customers use our equipment in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment in broad range of industry end markets, including aerospace and defense, internet infrastructure, automotive, industrial, computer and semiconductor, consumer electronics and power electronics. Our oscilloscopes are tools used by designers and engineers to measure and analyze complex electronic signals in order to develop high-performance systems, validate electronic designs and improve time to market. We offer a broad range of real-time oscilloscopes addressing different end user needs. Our five high-definition oscilloscope ( HD ) product families address needs from the lower-bandwidth bench top sector to the mid-range general-purpose sector of the market. The HD families offer superior signal fidelity for the ultimate in measurement accuracy and repeatability. Our LabMaster and WaveMaster product families are industry leading high-end oscilloscopes with bandwidths extending to 65GHz. Our WaveProHD product family covers the mid-to high-range performance and the WaveRunner product family covers the mid-range performance and general purpose and bench-top sector. Our WaveSurfer product-line is designed for users in the lower bandwidth bench-top sector of the market and value-oriented users in the economy sector. We also make high-speed, high-resolution modular analog-to-digital conversion systems. These systems are used in many applications including test and measurement, medical imaging, Light Detection and Ranging ( LIDAR ) and software defined radio. We recently introduced the WavePulser, using Teledyne InP technology which enables hardware designers and test engineers to characterize and analyze interconnects and cables for high-speed serial protocols such as PCI Express, HDMI, USB, SAS, SATA, Fibre Channel, InfiniBand, Gigabit Ethernet and Automotive Ethernet. Design and test engineers use our protocol analysis solutions to monitor accurately and reliably high data-rate communication interfaces and diagnose operational problems in a wide range of systems and devices to ensure that they comply with industry standards, including the area of Cloud computing and networks, where PCI Express and related standards are required for high performance data centers. Our protocol test portfolio also covers wireless technologies, including Bluetooth and 802.11 (Wi-Fi), and modern video technologies, such as HDMI and DisplayPort. Both product lines, along with our leadership in USB technology, provide a unique base to service the mobile, internet of things, automotive and consumer electronics test market. Our most recent acquisition of OakGate Technology, Inc. provides protocol validation and test tools for disk drives, both spinning and solid state, and servers used for cloud-based storage. We also manufacture torque sensors and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to test critical control valves in nuclear power and industrial plants. Our torque sensors are also used in other markets, including automotive and power tools. Digital Imaging Our Digital Imaging segment includes high-performance sensors, cameras and systems, within the visible, infrared, ultraviolet and X-ray spectra for use in industrial, government and medical applications, as well as MEMS and high-performance, high-reliability semiconductors including analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog converters. In 2019, we acquired a second MEMS foundry that specializes in BioMedical MEMS, Optical MEMS, industrial sensors and microfabrication. This segment also includes our sponsored and centralized research laboratories benefiting government programs and businesses. We design, develop and manufacture image capture products, primarily consisting of high-performance image sensors and digital cameras for use in industrial, scientific, academic research and medical applications. We also design, develop and manufacture image processing products, primarily consisting of hardware and software for image processing and automatic data collection in industrial, academic research and medical applications. We develop high-resolution, low-dose X-ray sensors for medical, dental and industrial applications. Our high-performance image sensors utilize both charge coupled device ( CCD ) and complementary metal-oxide semiconductor ( CMOS ) technology. In particular, our CMOS image sensing technology is used in our large flat panel detectors for X-ray imaging and in most of our sensors used for industrial machine vision applications. Our image processing software allows OEMs and systems integrators to develop vision applications using our image acquisition and processing hardware. Our smart camera products are user-friendly, cost-effective vision appliances for task-specific factory floor applications such as gauging, high-precision alignment, inspection, assembly verification and machine guidance. Our smart cameras are designed to be quickly deployed by technicians on the factory floor. We provide lightweight X-ray sources for the inspection of materials and structures and for the analysis of suspicious objects. We design and manufacture 3D time of flight sensors and modules for industrial robots, warehouse robots and ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistance Systems) for automobiles. Through our 2019 acquisition of the scientific imaging businesses of Roper Technologies, Inc., we manufacture state-of-the-art cameras, spectrographs and optics for advanced research in physical sciences, life sciences research and spectroscopy imaging for applications and markets that include materials analysis, quantum 4 Table of Contents technology and cell biology imaging using fluorescence and chemiluminescence. We also provide rugged USB-based customized cameras for markets such as traffic management, as well as life sciences applications. We produce and provide manufacturing services for MEMS. The majority of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity is consumed by external customers with the remaining capacity applied towards supplying unique CCD and microbolometer (for long-wave infrared detection) fabrication services for our internal image sensor requirements. Additionally, we produce components and sub-systems that deliver high performance and high reliability radio frequency power generation for healthcare, transportation and industrial applications. Such products include critical components used in radiotherapy applications for cancer treatment, magnetrons and thyratrons for X-ray cargo scanning systems and microwave sources for marine and airborne radar. We also provide high performance semiconductors, sub-systems, and signal and data processing solutions. As a partner of choice for high performance signal and data conditioning solutions for professional applications, we provide solutions that meet the demanding specifications of our customers. Our design capability enables us to partner with customers and ascend the value chain by providing multi-chip modules and boards. Our proprietary high-speed analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog data converters provide market leading performance for space and radio frequency communications. We provide space and quantum technology products and services, including space-qualified imaging and quantum subsystems, radiation hardened imaging sensors for high radiation and space environments, cold atom quantum technology devices and system development services. We also provide atomic clocks and gravity sensing and ground based astronomical telescope sensors and subsystems. In addition, our Digital Imaging segment provides LIDAR systems for airborne terrestrial mapping, mobile mapping, bathymetry and laser-based 3D imaging applications through our Optech business. These imaging and mapping systems are used by commercial and government customers serving energy, natural resources and infrastructure applications. We also provide geospatial software designed for the hydrographic and marine community. We provide research and engineering capabilities primarily in the areas of electronics, materials, optical systems, and information science to military, aerospace and industrial customers, as well as to various businesses throughout Teledyne. We receive funding from the Defense Advanced Research Products Agency ( DARPA ) and various other U.S. Department of Defense funding agencies, and we collaborate with researchers at universities and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of emerging technologies. We have developed high-speed electronics, precision timing and navigation devices, advanced functional and structural materials, liquid-crystal based optical devices, and image processing algorithms. We are a leader in the development and production of large format focal plane array sensors for astronomy, defense and space science markets. Our advanced focal plane arrays, sensors, and subsystems cover a broad spectrum of frequencies from X-ray wavelengths to 15 micron long-wave infrared wavelengths. We deliver advanced imaging solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense, National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ), the European Space Agency ( ESA ), prime system integrators, other foreign space agencies and commercial customers. Our sensor technologies are on many of NASA s major astronomy missions and can be found operating at nearly every major ground-based observatory telescope. Our image sensors also play a critical role in defense applications in airborne and satellite systems. We have developed sensors, subassemblies and cameras for air- and ground-based applications, including hyperspectral sensors for long-wave infrared and for simultaneous visible-shortwave infrared applications. We also produce a wide variety of infrared photodiodes for the commercial market. Our photodiodes are used in laboratory instrumentation and industrial equipment. In addition, we design and manufacture advanced military laser eye protection spectacles and sensor protection filters. Aerospace and Defense Electronics Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides sophisticated electronic components and subsystems and communications products, including defense electronics, harsh environment interconnects, data acquisition and communications equipment for aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless and satellite communications, as well as general aviation batteries. We provide a range of microwave products to our customers ranging from components to highly integrated subsystems and solutions. Our helix traveling wave tubes, commonly called TWTs, are used to provide broadband power amplification of microwave signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare and satellite communication. We make TWTs for commercial applications as well, such as electromagnetic compatibility test equipment and satellite communication terminals. We also provide high-power solid-state TWT replacement amplifiers and complete amplifiers that incorporate a TWT and a power supply. We design and manufacture solid state radio frequency ( RF ) and microwave components and subassemblies used in a wide varie