Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 20 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation s 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 43 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 43 Item 9B. Other Information 43 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 44 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 Item 11. Executive Compensation 44 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 44 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 44 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 44 I ndex to F inancial S tatements and R elated I nformation 45 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 85 Exhibit Index 86 Signatures 91 Explanatory Notes In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as the Company or Teledyne . For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see the discussion beginning on page 6 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On May 14, 2021, Teledyne completed the acquisition of FLIR Systems, Inc. ( FLIR ), and the financial results of FLIR have been included since the date of the acquisition. The financial statements of Teledyne contained herein are as of and for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2022, and reflect the results of the Company after giving effect to the acquisition of FLIR. i Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Who We Are Teledyne Technologies Incorporated ( Teledyne or the Company ), a Delaware company that became an independent public company effective November 29, 1999, provides enabling technologies for industrial growth markets that require advanced technology and high reliability. These markets include factory automation and condition monitoring, aerospace and defense, air and water quality environmental monitoring, electronics design and development, medical imaging and pharmaceutical research, oceanographic research, and deepwater energy exploration and production. Following the 2021 acquisition of FLIR Systems, Inc. ( FLIR ), we further evolved into a global sensing and decision-support technology company: providing specialty sensors, cameras, instrumentation, algorithms and software across the electromagnetic spectrum, as well as unmanned systems, in the subsea, land and air domains. We differentiate ourselves from many of our direct competitors by having a customer and Company-sponsored applied research center that augments our product development expertise. We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in our markets and the industries in which we compete. For discussion on our business and strategy for 2020 and 2019 see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2021; for a discussion of our 2020 acquisition, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Recent Developments Acquisition of FLIR Systems, Inc. On May 14, 2021, Teledyne acquired the outstanding stock of FLIR for approximately $8.1 billion, comprising of net cash payments of $3.7 billion, Teledyne share issuances of $3.9 billion, and the assumption of FLIR debt of $0.5 billion. FLIR stockholders received $28.00 per share in cash and 0.0718 shares of Teledyne common stock for each FLIR share, and Teledyne issued approximately 9.5 million shares at $409.41 per share. See Note 10 to these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding financing activities undertaken in connection with the FLIR acquisition. FLIR is an industrial technology company focused on intelligent sensing solutions for defense and industrial applications. FLIR offers a diversified portfolio that serves a number of applications in government and defense, industrial, and commercial markets. FLIR technologies include thermal imaging systems, visible-light imaging systems, locater systems, measurement and diagnostic systems, and advanced threat-detection solutions. FLIR is part of the Digital Imaging segment. Our Business Segments Our businesses are aligned in four segments: Digital Imaging, Instrumentation, Aerospace and Defense Electronics and Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business segments can be found in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2022 (this Form 10-K ). Digital Imaging Segment Our Digital Imaging segment includes high-performance sensors, cameras and systems, within the visible, infrared, ultraviolet and X-ray spectra for use in industrial, scientific, government, space, defense, security and medical applications, among others. We also produce and provide manufacturing services for micro electromechanical systems ( MEMS ) and high-performance, high-reliability semiconductors including analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog converters, as well as unmanned aerial and ground systems. This segment also includes our sponsored and centralized research laboratories. Our Digital Imaging segment represented approximately 52% of our net sales for 2021, and includes the net sales contribution from the May 14, 2021 acquisition of FLIR. Through this segment, we provide visible spectrum sensors and digital cameras for industrial machine vision and automated quality control, as well as for medical, research and scientific applications. We provide a range of cooled and uncooled infrared or thermal products, including sensors, camera cores and camera systems based on long wave infrared, mid-wave infrared, and short wave infrared technologies. Products and applications include space-based imaging, factory condition monitoring, optical gas leak detection, laboratory research and maritime thermal imaging. We develop high-resolution, low-dose X-Ray sensors for medical, dental and industrial applications. We also provide instruments for the measurement of physical properties and other maritime products for recreational and commercial customers globally. We provide research and engineering capabilities primarily in the areas of electronics, materials, optical systems, and information science to military, aerospace and industrial customers, as well as to various businesses throughout Teledyne. For defense applications, we also develop and manufacture multi-spectrum electro-optic/infrared imaging systems and associated products such as lasers, optics, and radars; Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosive detectors and unmanned air and ground systems. These sensors and instruments can be deployed as integrated solutions and with advanced target detection, identification and classification capabilities. We provide solutions for threat protection, military maneuver and force protection, border controls and homeland security, law enforcement, public safety, and commercial applications worldwide. 1 Table of Contents Instrumentation Segment Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control instruments for marine, environmental, industrial and other applications, and electronic test and measurement equipment. We also provide power and communications connectivity devices for distributed instrumentation systems and sensor networks deployed in mission critical, harsh environments. Our Instrumentation segment represented approximately 25% of our net sales for 2021. Below is a description of the product lines that comprise the Instrumentation segment. Marine Instrumentation We offer a variety of products designed for use in harsh underwater environments, instruments that measure currents and other physical properties in the water column, systems that create acoustic images of objects beneath the water s surface, including the bottom of a body of water, and sensors that determine the geologic structure below the bottom. We also design and manufacture vehicles that utilize and transport these sensors over and beneath the water s surface. We provide a broad range of end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, naval defense, oceanographic and telecom markets. We manufacture subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems and subsea pressure vessel penetrators and connector systems with glass-to-metal seals. Our waterproof and splash-proof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable assemblies are used in underwater equipment, submerged monitoring systems and other industrial applications. Other marine products used by the U.S. Navy and commercial customers include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication and optical underwater cameras and LED lighting sources. We manufacture complete autonomous-operated underwater vehicles systems. Glider applications range from oceanographic research to persistent surveillance systems for the U.S. Navy. We also design and manufacture remotely operated underwater vehicles used in maritime security, military, search and rescue, aquaculture, and scientific research applications. Environmental Instrumentation We offer a wide range of products used for environmental monitoring. Our instrumentation monitors trace levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen and ozone, as well as particulate pollution, in order to measure the quality of the air we breathe. We also supply monitoring systems for the detection, measurement and automated reporting of air pollutants from industrial stack emissions, ozone generators and other process gas monitoring instruments. Our instrumentation is used to detect a variety of water quality parameters and in applications found in petrochemical and refinery facilities. We also manufacture and provide complementary laboratory instrumentation including through laboratory automation and sample introduction systems which automates the preparation and concentration of organic samples. Our advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other environmental and geological samples. We manufacture high-precision pumps utilized in a wide variety of analytical, research clinical, preparative and fluid-metering applications. In addition, we manufacture liquid chromatography instruments and accessories for the purification of organic compounds, which include highly sensitive evaporative light scanning detectors, primarily for pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and development. Finally, we manufacture instruments that are used by pharmaceutical scientists to evaluate the release rate characteristics and physical properties of various dosage forms to ensure the safety and efficacy of medicines worldwide. Test and Measurement Instrumentation We believe our test and measurement products provide unique, world-class capabilities that enable the designers of complex electronic systems in many industry sectors to bring their products to market reliably and quickly. Our customers use our equipment in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment in broad range of industries, including aerospace and defense, internet infrastructure, automotive, industrial, computer and semiconductor, consumer electronics mobile and power electronics. We develop, manufacture, sell and license high-performance oscilloscopes, high-speed protocol analyzers, and related test and measurement solutions for a wide range of industries. Our oscilloscopes are used by designers and engineers to measure and analyze complex electronic signals to develop high-performance systems, validate high data-rate communication interfaces, qualify their electronic designs, and improve time to market. We also make high-speed, high-resolution modular analog-to-digital conversion systems for applications including test and measurement, scientific instruments, medical imaging, and distributed sensing systems. Design and test engineers use our protocol analysis solutions to monitor accurately and reliably high data-rate communication interfaces and diagnose operational problems in a wide range of systems and devices to ensure that they comply with industry standards, including the area of cloud computing, storage and networks. Our leadership in USB and video technologies provides a unique base to service the mobile, internet of things, automotive and consumer electronics test markets. 2 Table of Contents In 2021, Teledyne introduced the CrossSync PHY interposers and software options, enabling the first-ever link between an oscilloscope and a protocol analyzer to allow engineers to get a complete picture when testing the PCI Express interface standard. Our acquisition of OakGate Technology, Inc. ( OakGate ) in 2020 supplements our broad product offerings with protocol validation and test tools for high-performance solid-state storage devices used in both enterprise-grade data centers and in consumer computing applications. We also manufacture torque sensors and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to test critical control valves in nuclear power and industrial plants. Our torque sensors are also used in other markets, including automotive and power tools. Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segment Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides sophisticated electronic components and subsystems, data acquisition and communications components and equipment, harsh environment interconnects, general aviation batteries and other components for a variety of commercial and defense applications that require high performance and high reliability. Such applications include aircraft, radar, electronic countermeasures, weapon systems, space, wireless and satellite communications and terminals and test equipment. Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment represented approximately 14% of our net sales for 2021. We provide onboard avionics systems and ground-based applications that allow civil and military aircraft software operators to access, manage and utilize their data more efficiently. Our products include aircraft data and connectivity solutions, hardware systems, and software applications used by commercial airlines and the U.S. military, and we provide services related to our products. Engineered Systems Segment Our Engineered Systems segment provides innovative systems engineering, integration and advanced technology development, and complex manufacturing solutions for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. This segment also designs and manufactures electrochemical energy systems and manufactures specialty electronics for demanding military applications. Our Engineered Systems segment represented approximately 9% of our net sales for 2021. Our core business base, includes National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ), the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Energy, foreign militaries and commercial customers. Teledyne exited the cruise missile turbine engine business in the first quarter of 2021. Customers We have a large number of customers in the various industries we serve. No commercial customer in 2021 or 2020 accounted for more than 3% of total net sales or more than 10% of any segment s net sales. Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 47% of total sales in 2021 compared with 45% in 2020. In both 2021 and 2020, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign countries. Approximately 90% of our net sales to international customers during 2021 were made to customers in 30 foreign countries. In 2021, the top five countries for sales to international customers, ranked by net sales, were China, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan and France and represented approximately 20% of our total net sales. Approximately 26% of our total net sales for both 2021 and 2020 were derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Information on our sales to the U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, is as follows (in millions): U.S. Government sales by segment: 2021 2020 2019 Digital Imaging $ 515.9 $ 120.9 $ 107.4 Instrumentation 91.6 80.6 80.4 Aerospace and Defense Electronics 227.2 229.9 225.3 Engineered Systems 358.4 386.8 346.7 Total U.S. Government sales $ 1,193.1 $ 818.2 $ 759.8 Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense, which totaled approximately $876.6 million and $578.4 million of our total net sales for 2021 and 2020, respectively. In 2021 and 2020, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Mission Operations and Integration ( MO I ) contract with the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, which represented 1.0% and 1.5% of our total net sales, respectively. As described in greater detail under