Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 1 C . C ybersecurity 20 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. [ Reserved] 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation s 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure s About Market Risk 34 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 34 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 34 Item 9B. Other Information 34 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 34 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 34 Item 11. Executive Compensation 35 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 35 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 35 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 35 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 35 I ndex to F inancial S tatements and R elated I nformation 36 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 72 Exhibit Index 73 Signatures 78 Explanatory Notes In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is referred to as the Company , Teledyne , we , our or us . For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated with Teledyne and any forward-looking statements made by us, see the discussion beginning on page 6 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this document, for any references to Note 1 through Note 18 , refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. i Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Who We Are Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a Delaware corporation that provides enabling technologies for industrial growth markets that require advanced technology and high reliability. These markets include aerospace and defense, factory automation, air and water quality environmental monitoring, electronics design and development, oceanographic research, deepwater oil and gas exploration and production, medical imaging and pharmaceutical research. Our products include digital imaging sensors, cameras and systems within the visible, infrared and X-ray spectra, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine and environmental applications, harsh environment interconnects, electronic test and measurement equipment, aircraft information management systems, and defense electronics and satellite communication subsystems. We also supply engineered systems for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. We differentiate ourselves from many of our direct competitors by having a customer- and Company-sponsored applied research center that augments our product development expertise. We believe our technological capabilities, innovation and ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in our markets and the industries in which we compete. We became an independent public company effective November 29, 1999. The following description of our business should be read together with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Recent Developments Consistent with our strategy, we completed two acquisitions each in 2023 and in 2022. The financial results of these acquisitions have been included since the respective date of each acquisition. Our 2023 acquisitions were within the Digital Imaging and Instrumentation segments, and both acquisitions in 2022 were part of the Digital Imaging segment. See Note 3 for additional information about our recent business acquisitions. Our Business Segments Our businesses are aligned in four segments: Digital Imaging, Instrumentation, Aerospace and Defense Electronics and Engineered Systems. Additional financial information about our business segments can be found in Note 4 . Percentage of Total Net Sales Segment contribution to total net sales: 2023 2022 2021 Digital Imaging 56 % 57 % 52 % Instrumentation 23 % 23 % 25 % Aerospace and Defense Electronics 13 % 12 % 14 % Engineered Systems 8 % 8 % 9 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Digital Imaging Segment Our Digital Imaging segment includes high-performance sensors, cameras, and systems, within the visible, infrared, ultraviolet and X-ray spectra for use in industrial, scientific, government, space, defense, security, medical and other applications. We also produce and provide manufacturing services for micro electromechanical systems ( MEMS ) and high-performance, high-reliability semiconductors including analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog converters, as well as unmanned aerial and ground systems. This segment also includes our customer- and Company-sponsored applied research center. Through this segment, we provide visible spectrum sensors and digital cameras for industrial machine vision and automated quality control, as well as for medical, research and scientific applications. We provide a range of cooled and uncooled infrared or thermal products, including sensors, camera cores and camera systems based on long wave infrared, mid-wave infrared, and short wave infrared technologies. Products and applications include space-based imaging, factory condition monitoring, optical and acoustic-based gas leak detection, laboratory research and maritime thermal imaging. We develop high-resolution, low-dose X-ray sensors as well as high-power microwave and high-energy X-ray subsystems for medical, dental and industrial applications. We also provide instruments for the measurement of physical properties and maritime products for recreational and commercial customers globally. We provide research and engineering capabilities primarily in the areas of electronics, materials, optical systems, and information science to military, aerospace and industrial customers, as well as to various businesses throughout Teledyne. For defense applications, we also develop and manufacture multi-spectrum electro-optic/infrared imaging systems and associated products such as lasers, optics, and radars, CBRNE ( Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosive detectors ) and unmanned air and ground systems. These sensors and instruments can be deployed as integrated solutions and with advanced target detection, identification and classification capabilities. We provide solutions for threat protection, military maneuver and force protection, border controls and homeland security, law enforcement, public safety, and commercial applications worldwide. 1 Table of Contents Instrumentation Segment Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control instruments for marine, environmental, industrial and other applications, and electronic test and measurement equipment. We also provide power and communications connectivity devices for distributed instrumentation systems and sensor networks deployed in mission critical, harsh environments. Below is a description of the product lines that comprise the Instrumentation segment. Marine Instrumentation We offer a variety of products designed for use in harsh underwater environments, instruments that measure currents and other physical properties in the water column, systems that create acoustic images of objects beneath the water s surface, including the bottom of a body of water, instruments for navigation and sensors that determine the geologic structure below the bottom. We also design and manufacture vehicles that utilize and transport these sensors over and beneath the water s surface. We provide a broad range of end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, naval defense, oceanographic and telecom markets. We manufacture subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems and subsea pressure vessel penetrators and connector systems with glass-to-metal seals. Our waterproof and splash-proof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable assemblies are used in underwater equipment, submerged monitoring systems and other industrial and defense applications. Other marine products used by the U.S. Navy and commercial customers include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication and optical underwater cameras and LED lighting sources. We manufacture complete autonomous-operated underwater vehicles systems. Glider applications range from oceanographic research to persistent surveillance systems for the U.S. Navy. We also design and manufacture remotely operated underwater vehicles used in maritime security, military, search and rescue, aquaculture, and scientific research applications. Environmental Instrumentation We offer a wide range of products used for environmental monitoring. Our instrumentation monitors trace levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen and ozone, as well as particulate pollution, in order to measure the quality of the air we breathe. We supply monitoring systems for the detection, measurement and automated reporting of air pollutants from industrial stack emissions, ozone generators and other process gas monitoring instruments. We also supply water monitoring systems for wastewater monitoring and detection of water-borne pathogens and contaminants of concern. Our instrumentation is used to detect a variety of water quality parameters and in applications found in petrochemical and refinery facilities. We also manufacture and provide complementary laboratory instrumentation including through laboratory automation and sample introduction systems that automate the preparation and concentration of organic samples. Our advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other environmental and geological samples. We manufacture high-precision pumps utilized in a wide variety of analytical, research clinical, preparative and fluid-metering applications. In addition, we manufacture liquid chromatography instruments and accessories for the purification of organic compounds, which include highly sensitive evaporative light scanning detectors, primarily for pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and development. We manufacture instruments that are used by pharmaceutical scientists to evaluate the release rate characteristics and physical properties of various dosage forms to ensure the safety and efficacy of medicines worldwide. Finally, we manufacture fixed and portable industrial gas and flame detection instruments used in a variety of industries including petrochemical, power generation, oil and gas, food and beverage, mining and wastewater treatment. Test and Measurement Instrumentation Our test and measurement products provide capabilities that enable the designers of complex electronic systems in many industry sectors to bring their products to market reliably and quickly. Our customers use our equipment in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment in a broad range of industries, including aerospace and defense, internet infrastructure, automotive, industrial, computer and semiconductor, consumer electronics mobile and power electronics. We develop, manufacture, sell and license high-performance oscilloscopes, high-speed protocol analyzers, and related test and measurement solutions for a wide range of industries. Our oscilloscopes are used by designers and engineers to measure and analyze complex electronic signals to develop high-performance systems, validate high data-rate communication interfaces, qualify their electronic designs, and improve time-to-market. We also make high-speed, high-resolution modular analog-to-digital conversion systems for applications, including test and measurement, scientific instruments, medical imaging, and distributed sensing systems. Design and test engineers use our protocol analysis solutions to monitor accurately and reliably high data-rate communication interfaces and diagnose operational problems in a wide range of systems and devices to ensure that they comply with industry standards, including in the areas of cloud computing, storage and networks. Our leadership in USB and video technologies provides a unique base to service the mobile, internet of things, automotive and consumer electronics test markets. We also produce protocol validation and test tools for high-performance solid-state storage devices used in both enterprise- 2 Table of Contents grade data centers and in consumer computing applications. Our recently introduced interposers and software options allow engineers to get a complete picture when testing the PCI Express interface standard by enabling a link between an oscilloscope and a protocol analyzer. We also manufacture torque sensors and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to test critical control valves in nuclear power and industrial plants. Our torque sensors are also used in other markets, including automotive and power tools. Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segment Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides sophisticated electronic components and subsystems, data acquisition and communications components and equipment, harsh environment interconnects, general aviation batteries and other components for a variety of commercial and defense applications that require high performance and high reliability. Such applications include aircraft, radar, electronic countermeasures, weapon systems, space, wireless and satellite communications and terminals and test equipment. We provide onboard avionics systems and ground-based applications that allow civil and military aircraft software operators to access, manage and utilize their data more efficiently. Our products include aircraft data and connectivity solutions, hardware systems, and software applications used by commercial airlines and the U.S. military, and we provide services related to our products. Engineered Systems Segment Our Engineered Systems segment provides innovative systems engineering, integration and advanced technology development, and complex manufacturing solutions for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. This segment also designs and manufactures electrochemical energy systems and manufactures specialty electronics for demanding military applications. Our core business base includes National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ), the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Energy, foreign militaries and commercial customers. Customers We have a broad and diversified customer base in the various markets we serve. No commercial customer in 2023 or 2022 accounted for more than 10% of net sales for any of our segments or for the total Company. Total sales to international customers were $2,740.1 million in 2023 and $2,586.0 million in 2022. Of these net sales to international customers, our businesses in the United States accounted for $900.5 million in 2023 and $837.9 million in 2022. In both 2023 and 2022, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign countries. Approximately 90% of our net sales to international customers during 2023 were made to customers in 30 foreign countries. In 2023, the top five countries for sales to international customers, ranked by net sales, were the United Kingdom, China, Japan, Germany and Norway and represented approximately 21% of our total net sales. There were no sales to individual countries outside of the United States in excess of 10% of the Company s sales. Information on our net sales to the U.S. Government, including direct sales to agencies as a prime contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, was as follows (in millions): U.S. Government sales by segment: 2023 2022 2021 Digital Imaging $ 570.7 $ 619.1 $ 515.9 Instrumentation 95.9 108.1 91.6 Aerospace and Defense Electronics 330.3 266.3 227.2 Engineered Systems 384.8 366.4 358.4 Total U.S. Government sales $ 1,381.7 $ 1,359.9 $ 1,193.1 Total U.S. Government sales as a percent of total net sales 24.5 % 24.9 % 25.9 % Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense, with total net sales of $1,081.3 million and $1,065.1 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. With the exception of the Engineered Systems segment, no U.S Government program in 2023 or 2022 accounted for more than 10% of net sales for any of our segments or for the total Company. In 2023, the largest program with the U.S. Government within the Engineered Systems segment was the Marshall Operations, Systems, Services, and Integration II ( MOSSI II ) contract with the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, which represented approximately 17% of Engineered Systems net sales. In 2022, the largest program with the U.S. Government within the Engineered Systems segment was the Mission Operations and Integration contract with the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, which represented approximately 11% of Engineered Systems net sales. As described in greater detail under