Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Reserved 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 42 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 42 Item 9B. Other Information 42 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 42 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 43 Item 11. Executive Compensation 43 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 43 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 44 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 44 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 49 Signatures 50 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 52 i Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have made forward-looking statements in this Annual Report that are based on our management s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward-looking statements also include statements addressing our environmental, social, governance, and sustainability plans and goals. Such statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, aspire, estimate, predict, potential, goal, target, continue, may, and should, or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law. The risk factors discussed in Part I.