Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 42 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 42 Item 9B. Other Information 43 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 Item 11. Executive Compensation 44 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 45 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 45 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 46 Item 16. Form 10 K Summary 50 Signatures 51 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 53 i Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have made forward-looking statements in this Annual Report that are based on our management s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, continue, may, and should, or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law. The risk factors discussed in Risk Factors and other risks described in this Annual Report could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. ii Table of Contents PART I TE Connectivity and TE Connectivity (logo) are trademarks. This report further contains other trademarks of ours and additional trade names and trademarks of other companies that are not owned by TE Connectivity. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. 2020 TE Connectivity Ltd. All Rights Reserved. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General TE Connectivity Ltd. ( TE Connectivity or the Company, which may be referred to as we, us, or our ) is a global industrial technology leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future. Our broad range of connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, enable advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home. We became an independent, publicly traded company in 2007; however, through our predecessor companies, we trace our foundations in the connectivity business back to 1941. We are organized under the laws of Switzerland. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Swiss law, our Swiss articles of association, and our Swiss organizational regulations. We have a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Friday of September. Fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018 were each 52 weeks in length and ended on September 25, 2020, September 27, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively. For fiscal years in which there are 53 weeks, the fourth quarter reporting period includes 14 weeks, with the next such occurrence taking place in fiscal 2022. COVID-19 Pandemic A novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) was first identified in China in December 2019 and subsequently declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. To date, COVID-19 has surfaced in nearly all regions around the world and resulted in travel restrictions and business slowdowns or shutdowns in affected areas. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected our sales and operating results during fiscal 2020, and we expect that it will continue to have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations in the near term and may have a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations in future periods. See Part II. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for discussion regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial results. Also, see Part I.