Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 22 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 107 Item 9B. Other Information 108 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 109 Item 11. Executive Compensation 109 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 109 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 109 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 109 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 110 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 111 Signatures 117 Table of Contents TERADYNE, INC. FORM 10-K SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. When used herein, the words will, would, believe, anticipate, plan, expect, estimate, project, intend, may, see, target and other words and terms of similar meaning are intended to identify forward-looking statements although not all forward looking statements contain these identifying words. Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors of this annual report on Form 10-K and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management s analysis only as of the date hereof and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied. Teradyne assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, except as may be required by law. PART I Item 1: Business Teradyne, Inc. ( Teradyne ) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications. We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage and complex electronics systems in the consumer electronics, wireless, automotive, industrial, computing, communications, and aerospace and defense industries. Our industrial automation products include collaborative robotic arms, autonomous mobile robots and advanced robotic control software used by global manufacturing and light industrial customers to improve quality, increase manufacturing and material handling efficiency and decrease manufacturing costs. Our automatic test equipment and industrial automation products and services include: semiconductor test ( Semiconductor Test ) systems; defense/aerospace ( Defense/Aerospace ) test instrumentation and systems, storage test ( Storage Test ) systems, and circuit-board test and inspection ( Production Board Test ) systems (collectively these products represent System Test ); industrial automation ( Industrial Automation ) products; and wireless test ( Wireless Test ) systems. We have a customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers ( IDMs ), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers ( OSATs ), original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ), wafer foundries, fabless companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits ( ICs ), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive suppliers, wireless product manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors, and distributors that sell collaborative robots, autonomous mobile robots and wireless test systems. The sales of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers who are subject to cyclical trends in demand for their products. These cyclical periods have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business because our customers often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and to demand fluctuations in the semiconductor, electronics and industrial automation industries. Historically, these demand fluctuations have resulted in significant variations in our results of operations. 1 Table of Contents The market for our test products is concentrated with a limited number of significant customers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of test equipment. A few customers drive significant demand for our products both through direct sales and sales to the customer s supply partners. We expect that sales of our test products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future. In 2019, revenue in our test businesses exceeded our plan as a result of Semiconductor Test demand in China, early 5G test investments and strength in our System Test businesses. The revenue growth of our Industrial Automation business was below our plan. In 2020, we expect continued strong momentum in our test businesses and improvement in the growth of our Industrial Automation businesses. On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation ( Energid ) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. Energid is included in our Industrial Automation segment. On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS ( MiR ), a Danish limited liability company. MiR is a leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots ( AMRs ) for industrial applications. The total purchase price was approximately $197.8 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145.2 million and $52.6 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020. Contingent consideration for 2018 was $30.8 million and was paid in March 2019. Contingent consideration for 2019 was $9.1 million and is expected to be paid in March 2020. The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid is $63.2 million. MiR is included in our Industrial Automation segment. On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA ( Lemsys ) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment. On June 3, 2019, we invested $15.0 million in RealWear, Inc. ( RealWear ). RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive. On February 28, 2020, RealWear s debt holder demanded repayment of its $25.0 million loan to RealWear. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded an impairment charge of $15.0 million to reduce our investment in RealWear to zero as of December 31, 2019. On November 13, 2019, we acquired 100% of the membership interests of AutoGuide, LLC ( AutoGuide ), a maker of high payload AMRs, an emerging and fast growing segment of the global forklift market. The total purchase price was approximately $81.7 million, which included cash paid of approximately $57.8 million and $24.0 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain performance targets, extending potentially through 2022. The maximum contingent consideration that could be paid is $106.9 million. AutoGuide s AMRs are used for material transport of payloads up to 4,500 kg in manufacturing, warehouse and logistics applications. These products complement MiR s lower payload products. AutoGuide is included in our Industrial Automation segment. Investor Information We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ). We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically. 2 Table of Contents You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Products Semiconductor Test We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test systems we provide are used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips are used in automotive, industrial, communications, consumer, smartphones, and computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of functionality, from very simple low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors and microprocessors as well as memory devices. Semiconductor Test products and services are sold to IDMs that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, Fabless companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, Foundries that cater to the processing and manufacturing of silicon wafers, and OSATs that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities, and use Foundries for wafer manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to: improve and control product quality; measure and improve product performance; reduce time to market; and increase production yields. Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing of many devices in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their Cost of Test economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements through the following key capabilities: A high efficiency multi-site architecture that reduces tester overhead such as instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing; The IG-XL software operating system which provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and Broad technology coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a universal slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs. FLEX Test Platform purchases are made by IDMs, OSATs, Foundries and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely used test solution at OSATs by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include smartphones, cell phones, tablets, set top boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets continue to be drivers for the FLEX 3 Table of Contents Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of technologies and instrument coverage. In 2019, we introduced our next generation UltraFlex Plus tester, the newest member of the UltraFlex family, UltraFlex Plus uses the new PACE TM architecture to deliver superior economics and fast time to market for complex digital devices. The FLEX Test Platform has an installed base of more than 7,000 systems. Our J750 test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test Platform systems. The J750 is designed to address the highest volume semiconductor devices, such as microcontrollers, that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automobiles. J750 test systems combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image Sensor test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in smartphones and other imaging products. We have continued to invest in the J750 platform with new instrument releases that bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to new devices that include high end microcontrollers and the latest generation of cameras. The J750 platform has an installed base of over 5,800 systems. Our Magnum platform addresses the requirements of mass production test of memory devices such as flash memory and DRAM. Flash and DRAM memory are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum V, the newest member of the family, is a next generation memory test solution designed for parallel memory test in the flash, DRAM and multi-chip package markets. In 2019, we introduced a high-speed DRAM test version of our Magnum platform called Magnum Epic giving us full product coverage of the memory test market. The Magnum platform has an installed base of over 2,800 systems. Our ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the analog/mixed signal markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Our proprietary SmartPin technology enables high efficiency multi-site testing, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by ETS platform systems are incorporated into a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including mobile devices, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The newest products from the platform include the ETS-88, a high performance multi-site production test system designed to test a wide variety of high volume commodity and precision devices, and the ETS-800, a high performance multi-site production test system to test high complexity power devices in automotive, industrial and consumer applications. The ETS platform has an installed base of over 5,200 systems. Lemsys SA, which we acquired in January 2019, has added a high power discrete device tester to our portfolio of semiconductor testers. Lemsys s testers address the emerging segment for high power discrete devices used in electric vehicles, wind and solar power generation and other high power industrial applications. System Test Our System Test segment is comprised of three business units: Defense/Aerospace, Storage Test and Production Board Test. Defense/Aerospace We are a leading provider of high performance test systems, subsystems, instruments and service for the defense and aerospace markets. Our test products are used to ensure the readiness of military and commercial aerospace electronics systems. New programs, such as tactical aircraft and missile systems, as well as upgrade programs, continue to fuel the demand for high performance test systems in this market. Our test products are well-suited to the demands of defense/aerospace electronics manufacturers and repair depots worldwide. Our leadership in this market is underscored by our success with major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied defense services worldwide. 4 Table of Contents Storage Test The Storage Test business unit addresses the high throughput, automated manufacturing test requirements of hard disk drive ( HDD ) and solid state disk ( SSD ) manufacturers and semiconductor manufacturers. Our products address the client and enterprise storage markets. The client market is driven by the needs of desktop, laptop, and external HDD and SSD storage products. The enterprise market is driven by the needs of data centers and cloud storage. In 2017, we developed a system level test product for the semiconductor production market, called Titan. Titan is used to test devices following wafer and package test. The business unit s products lead in addressing customer requirements related to factory density, throughput and thermal performance. Production Board Test Our test systems are used by electronics manufacturers worldwide to perform In-Circuit-Test ( ICT ) and device programming of printed circuit board assemblies. Fast, accurate and cost-effective test capabilities are hallmark features of our Test Station and Spectrum ICT product families. We offer the Test Station in off-line and automated in-line configurations. The automated in-line configurations address the growing requirements for automating production lines for high volume applications, such as automotive electronics. Industrial Automation Our Industrial Automation segment is comprised of four business units: Universal Robots, Mobile Industrial Robots, AutoGuide and Energid. Universal Robots Universal Robots, which was acquired in June 2015, is a leading supplier of collaborative robots, which are low-cost, easy-to-deploy and simple-to-program robots that work side by side with production workers to improve quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and decrease manufacturing costs. Collaborative robots are designed to mimic the motion of a human arm and can be fitted with task specific grippers or fixtures to support a wide range of applications. Universal Robots offers three collaborative robot models, the UR3, UR5, and UR10, each with different weight carrying capacity and arm reach. All models are easily integrated into existing production environments. Universal Robots products are differentiated by their: easy programming using a graphical interface which allows users to program the collaborative robot in a few hours; flexibility and ease of use in allowing customers to change the task the collaborative robot is performing as their production demands dictate; safe operations as collaborative robots can assist workers in side by side production environments requiring no special safety enclosures or shielding to protect workers; and short payback period, on average less than 12 months. In 2018, Universal Robots introduced its e-Series collaborative robots which include technology advances that enable faster development of applications, greater precision and improved safety. Universal Robots offers four e-Series collaborative robot models UR3e, UR5e, UR10e and UR16e that was launched in September 2019. Cumulatively, Universal Robots has sold over 42,000 collaborative robots in diverse production environments and applications. Mobile Industrial Robots MiR, which was acquired in April 2018, is a leading supplier of collaborative autonomous mobile robots ( AMRs ), which are low-cost, easy-to-deploy and simple-to-program mobile robots that increase manufacturing 5 Table of Contents and warehouse efficiency and decrease costs. Collaborative autonomous mobile robots are designed to move material from point to point via autonomous navigation rather than the need for traditional mobile robot guidance infrastructure such as painted or magnetic strips, and are designed to navigate safely around obstacles and people. MiR offers four collaborative autonomous mobile robot models, the MiR100, MiR200, MiR500 and MiR 1000 (launched in May 2019) each with different payload carrying capacity. All models are easily integrated into existing production environments. MiR s products are differentiated by their: easy programming using a graphical interface which allows users to program the collaborative robot in a few hours; ease of use, speed of deployment and flexibility in allowing customers to change the task as their demands dictate; reliable autonomous navigation over large manufacturing and warehouse areas; and short payback period, on average 12 18 months. Cumulatively, MiR has sold over 3,000 collaborative autonomous mobile robots in diverse production and warehouse environments and applications. Energid Energid, which was acquired in February 2018, is a leading supplier of real-time advanced robot motion control software, which automation suppliers use to coordinate the control of multiple automation axes for performing tasks. Motion control software performs the complex mathematics and functions needed to enable robot motion for tasks such as grasping and moving an object. Energid offers developer and run time licenses of its Actin software. Actin is integrated by customers into the customers robot and automation solutions. Actin products are differentiated by their: highly flexible, adaptive, robot motion control; and task optimized robotic path planning. Cumulatively, Energid has sold over 500 Actin developer and run time licenses deployed in diverse automation applications. AutoGuide AutoGuide, which was acquired in November 2019, is a maker of high payload AMRs, an emerging and fast growing segment of the global forklift market. AutoGuide s AMRs are used for material transport of payloads up to 4,500 kg in manufacturing, warehouse and logistics applications. These products complement MiR s lower payload products. Cumulatively, AutoGuide has sold over 150 autonomous mobile robots in diverse production and warehouse environments and applications. Wireless Test Our acquisition of LitePoint in 2011 and ZTEC Instruments Inc. ( ZTEC ) in 2013 expanded our product offerings in the wireless test market. Under the LitePoint brand name, these products provide test solutions utilized in the development and manufacturing of wireless devices. The world s leading makers of smartphones, tablets, notebooks, laptops, peripherals, and Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices rely on LitePoint technology to ensure their products get into consumer hands with high quality and high efficiency. LitePoint hardware and software wireless test solutions are used in test insertions that span design verification to high volume manufacturing and are deployed across the entire production eco-system from the 6 Table of Contents wireless chipset suppliers to the consumer brands. Wireless devices are often tested at multiple points along the manufacturing process that include insertions at component, system-in-package ( SiP ), module, PCB, SMT and finished product stages. Design verification is an important step in the development process for evaluating product performance prior to starting production. As end market unit volumes have increased, the quantity of units and the amount of data that must be analyzed for a successful product launch continues to grow. LitePoint products provide easy to use, domain specific tools for rapid analysis of product performance. This helps to speed time to market. In high volume manufacturing, before products are packaged and shipped, wireless test enables the calibration of each individual product s wireless performance to improve range, data throughput and battery life. Testing also verifies product specifications for product quality control. As markets become increasingly competitive, product performance and quality provide brand differentiation. Wireless standards can be thought of in two categories, connectivity and cellular. Connectivity covers many standards such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and GPS. LitePoint s IQxel products cover emerging Wi-Fi standards such as WiFi 6 (802.11ax) and includes a variety of other standards such as Bluetooth Classic, Bluetooth 5.0 and Bluetooth low energy, Zigbee, Z-Wave, NFC, LoRa, GPS, GLONASS and others. The IQxel product family s high-performance wireless and multi-device testing economics is aligned with the needs of networking equipment, Internet gateways, IoT products and embedded modules used in smartphones, tablets, and PCs. In 2019, we introduced a new product in the IQxel family for testing 7GHz WiFi devices. Another connectivity product, the IQnfc, addresses the growing use of NFC technology for payments with mobile devices. Cellular standards include 2G, 3G, 4G and emerging 5G mobile phone technologies. LitePoint s IQxstream is a multi-device production test optimized solution for high-speed testing of GSM, EDGE, CDMA2000, TD-SCDMA, WCDMA, HSPA+, LTE-FDD, TD_LTE, and LTE-A, and 5G technologies. It is used for calibration and verification of smartphones, tablets, small cell wireless gateways and embedded cellular modules. The IQcell, is a multi-device cellular signaling test solution which enables user experience testing of LTE cellular devices via over-the-air connections. The IQgig family provides test solution at the intermediary and millimeter wave frequencies for 5G and 802.11ad. In 2018, we introduced a new product in the IQgig family for testing mm-wave handsets. To complement the test systems, LitePoint offers turnkey test software for over 350 of the most popular wireless chipsets. These optimized solutions provide rapid development of high volume manufacturing solutions with a minimum of engineering effort by customers. Sales and Distribution In 2019 and 2018, no single direct customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. In 2017, revenues from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. accounted for 13% of our consolidated revenues. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. is a customer of our Semiconductor Test segment. In each of the years, 2019, 2018 and 2017, our five largest direct customers in aggregate accounted for 27%, 27% and 32% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. OSAT customers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., often purchase our test systems based upon recommendations from OEMs, IDMs and Fabless companies. In all cases when an OSAT customer purchases a test system from us, we consider the OSAT as the customer since credit risk, title and risk of loss, among other things, are between Teradyne and the OSAT. We estimate consolidated revenues driven by Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. ( Huawei ), combining direct sales to that customer with sales to the customer s OSATs, accounted for approximately 11%, 4% and 1% of our consolidated revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, 7 Table of Contents respectively. We estimate consolidated revenues driven by another OEM customer, combining direct sales to that customer with sales to the customer s OSATs (which include Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd.), accounted for approximately 10%, 13% and 22% of our consolidated revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The loss of, or significant decrease in demand from Huawei or this other OEM customer, or any of our five largest direct customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have sales and service offices located throughout North America, Central America, Asia and Europe. We sell in these areas predominantly through a direct sales force, except for Industrial Automation products, which are sold through distributors. Our manufacturing activities are primarily conducted through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with significant operations in China and Malaysia. Sales to customers outside the United States were 85%, 87%, and 88%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer site. See also Item 1A: Risk Factors and Note T: Operating Segment, Geographic and Significant Customer Information in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment include, among others, Advantest Corporation and Cohu, Inc. Competitors in the System Test segment include, among others, Keysight Technologies, Inc., Advantest Corporation, Test Research, Inc. and SPEA S.p.A. Competitors in our Industrial Automation segment include manufacturers of traditional industrial robots such as KUKA Robotics Corporation, ABB, FANUC and Yaskawa Electric Corporation, companies with emerging collaborative robot offerings such as Techman, Doosan, and AUBO Robotics, and manufacturers of autonomous mobile robots such as Omron, Fe