Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 23 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. (Reserved) 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 36 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 38 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 87 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 87 Item 9B. Other Information 87 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 87 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 88 Item 11. Executive Compensation 88 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 88 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 89 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 Signatures 95 Table of Contents TERADYNE, INC. FORM 10-K SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding Teradyne's future business prospects, financial performance or position and results of operations. When used herein, the words such as anticipate, expect, plan, could, may, will, believe, estimate, goal, or other comparable terms are intended to identify forward-looking statements although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management s analysis only as of the date hereof and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied. Teradyne assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, except as may be required by law. 1 Table of Contents PA RT I Item 1: B usiness Teradyne, Inc. ( Teradyne ) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automated test equipment and robotics solutions. We design, develop, manufacture and sell automated test systems and robotics products. Our automated test systems are used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage and complex electronics systems in many industries including consumer electronics, wireless, automotive, industrial, computing, communications, and aerospace and defense industries. Our robotics products include collaborative robotic arms and autonomous mobile robots ( AMRs ) used by global manufacturing, logistics and industrial customers to improve quality, increase manufacturing and material handling efficiency and decrease manufacturing and logistics costs. Our automated test equipment and robotics products and services include: semiconductor test ( Semiconductor Test ) systems; storage and system level test ( Storage Test ) systems, defense/aerospace ( Defense/Aerospace ) test instrumentation and systems, and circuit-board test and inspection ( Production Board Test ) systems (collectively these products represent System Test ); wireless test ( Wireless Test ) systems; and robotics ( Robotics ) products. The market for our test products is concentrated with a limited number of significant customers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of test equipment. A few customers drive significant demand for our products both through direct sales and sales to the customer s supply partners. We expect that sales of our test products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future. In 2023, the demand in our Semiconductor Test business continued to be impacted by a correction cycle driven by excess semiconductor inventory, primarily in the mobility segment of the market. The depth of this slowdown and the timing of the recovery are uncertain, however, strong automotive and image sensor demand partially offset these declines. The growth of DDR5 and High Bandwidth Memory ("HBM") devices for data center applications continued to drive demand for our products in the memory market in 2023. Over the midterm, we expect the ramp of 3 nanometer and gate-all-around process technology, increasing multichip packaging, additional device complexity and unit growth will drive additional demand for Semiconductor Test. Our Robotics segment consists of Universal Robots A/S ( UR ), a leading supplier of collaborative robotic arms, and Mobile Industrial Robots A/S ( MiR ), a leading maker of AMRs for industrial automation. The market for our Robotics segment products is dependent on the adoption of new automation technologies by large manufacturers as well as small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) throughout the world. Demand in the fourth quarter of 2023 increased, tied to introduction of new products and seasonally high demand in Robotics after market softness and the impact of our channel transformation resulted in a weaker than forecasted first half of 2023. On November 7, 2023, Teradyne and Technoprobe S.p.A ( Technoprobe ), a leader in the design and production of probe cards, announced the establishment of a strategic partnership that will seek to accelerate growth for both companies and enable higher performance semiconductor test interfaces for customers worldwide. As part of the partnership, Teradyne will make an investment of 481.0 million Euros in exchange for a 10% equity investment in Technoprobe and Technoprobe will acquire 100% of Teradyne s Device Interface Solutions ("DIS") business in exchange for $85.0 million. The transaction is expected to close during the first half of 2024. In 2023, inflation had minimal effect on our results. While both our test and robotics businesses may continue to be influenced by supply constraints, which could impact our revenue and costs, we do not anticipate that supply chain constraints will have a material impact on our financial results in 2024. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, approximately 70 percent of our Robotics sales are denominated in foreign currencies. There was no material impact to our 2023 results due to changes in foreign exchange rates, however, in 2022, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar was a factor in lower than forecasted revenues in our Robotics segment. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar would adversely affect Robotics revenue growth in 2024. 2 Table of Contents Our corporate strategy continues to focus on profitably gaining market share in our test businesses through the introduction of differentiated products that target expanding segments and accelerating growth through continued investment in our Robotics businesses. We plan to continue investing in our growth while balancing capital allocations between stock repurchases and dividends and using capital for acquisitions. Investor Information We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ). We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically. You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Products Semiconductor Test We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test systems we provide are used both for wafer level and device package testing of semiconductor devices. These devices are used in automotive, industrial, communications, consumer, smartphones, cloud, computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of functionality, from very simple low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning ( AI/ML ) training, high performance computing and microprocessors as well as memory devices. Semiconductor Test products and services are sold to integrated device manufacturers ( IDMs ) that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, Fabless companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, Foundries that cater to the processing and manufacturing of silicon wafers, and semiconductor assembly and test providers ( OSATs ) that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities and use Foundries for wafer manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to: improve and control product quality; measure and improve product performance; reduce time to market; and increase production yields. Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing of many devices in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their Cost of Test economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements through the following key capabilities: A high efficiency multi-site architecture that reduces tester overhead such as instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing; The IG-XL software operating system which provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and Broad technology coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a universal slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs. FLEX Test Platform purchases are made by IDMs, OSATs, Foundries and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely used test solution at OSATs by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include mobile phones and tablets, PCs, servers, networking 3 Table of Contents and automotive electronics. These end use markets continue to be drivers for the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of technologies and instrument coverage. In 2019, we introduced our next generation UltraFLEX Plus tester, the newest member of the UltraFLEX family, UltraFLEX Plus uses the new PACE TM architecture to deliver superior economics and fast time to market for complex digital devices. Our J750 test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test Platform systems. The J750 is designed to handle high volume semiconductor devices, such as microcontrollers, that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automobiles. J750 test systems combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image Sensor test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in smartphones, automobiles and other imaging products. We have continued to invest in the J750 platform with new instrument releases that bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to new devices that include high end microcontrollers and the latest generation of image sensors. Our Magnum platform addresses the requirements of mass production test of memory devices for flash and DRAM memory. Flash and DRAM memory are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum 7, the newest member of the family introduced at the end of 2021, is a next generation memory test solution designed for parallel memory test in the flash, DRAM and multi-chip package markets. In 2019, we introduced a high-speed DRAM test version of our Magnum platform called Magnum EPIC giving us full product coverage of the memory test market. Our ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the analog/mixed signal markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Our proprietary SmartPin technology enables high efficiency multi-site testing, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by ETS platform systems are incorporated into a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including mobile devices, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The Eagle platform includes the ETS-88, a high performance multi-site production test system designed to test a wide variety of high volume power and precision devices, including Silicon Carbide (SiC) and Gallium Nitride (GaN) power devices used in vehicle electrification, and the ETS-800, a high performance multi-site production test system, is used to test high complexity power devices in automotive, industrial and consumer applications. System Test Our System Test segment is comprised of three business units: Storage Test, Defense/Aerospace, and Production Board Test. Storage Test The Storage Test business unit addresses the high throughput, automated manufacturing test requirements of hard disk drive ( HDD ) and semiconductor manufacturers. Our HDD products address the client and enterprise storage markets. The client market is driven by the needs of desktop, laptop, and external HDD storage products. The enterprise market is driven by the needs of data centers and cloud storage. Our system level test product for the semiconductor production market is used to test devices following wafer and package test. The business unit s products lead in addressing customer requirements related to factory density, throughput and thermal performance. Defense/Aerospace We are a leading provider of high performance test systems, subsystems, instruments and service for the defense and aerospace markets. Our test products are used to ensure the readiness of military and commercial aerospace electronics systems. New programs, such as tactical aircraft and missile systems, as well as upgrade programs, continue to fuel the demand for high performance test systems in this market. Our test products are well-suited to the demands of defense/aerospace electronics manufacturers and repair depots worldwide. Our leadership in this market is underscored by our success with major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied defense services worldwide. Production Board Test Our test systems are used by electronics manufacturers and OEMs worldwide to perform In-Circuit-Test ( ICT ) and device programming of printed circuit board assemblies. Fast, accurate and cost-effective test capabilities are hallmark features of our Test Station product families. We offer the Test Station in off-line and automated in-line configurations. The automated in-line configurations address the growing requirements for automating production lines for high volume applications, such as automotive electronics, computing, and communications. 4 Table of Contents Wireless Test Our Wireless Test segment is a business unit run under the LitePoint brand name providing wireless test solutions for silicon validation, wireless module manufacturing, and wireless end device manufacturing. The world s leading makers of smartphones, laptops, access points, and Internet-of-Things ( IoT ) devices rely on LitePoint equipment to ensure their products get into consumer s hands with high quality and high efficiency. LitePoint wireless test systems span design verification to high volume manufacturing and are deployed across the entire production chain from wireless chipset suppliers to consumer brands. Design verification involves comprehensive automated testing of small quantities of devices in an R D lab to ensure the device meets its design targets over a wide range of conditions and scenarios. High Volume manufacturing involves the calibration and testing of each wireless device to ensure the product will deliver the intended customer experience. This ensures all the products perform identically in terms of their wireless characteristics. LitePoint equipment serves an ever-expanding number of wireless standards in three segments: connectivity, cellular, and secure ranging. Connectivity encompasses numerous short range unlicensed communication standards. Cellular includes standards operating in licensed spectrum from a few GHz to 10s of GHz (mmWave). Finally, secure ranging uses Ultra Wideband (UWB) technology to provide centimeter level positioning with secure data transactions for applications such as digital keys and item location (tag type trackers). LitePoint serves these wireless segments with multiple product families. The LitePoint IQxel-MX and IQxel-MW7G series provide leading edge measurement performance for both design validation and high volume manufacturing of connectivity products. The LitePoint IQxstream-5G and IQgig-5G families combine support for 4G and 5G technologies across a wide range of frequencies to serve all the needs of both end user (smartphones) and network infrastructure (small cells and O-RAN) equipment. Finally, the IQgig-UWB+ provides comprehensive certification and manufacturing test support for UWB (802.15.14) products used for secure ranging. Robotics Our Robotics segment is comprised of two business units: Universal Robots and Mobile Industrial Robots. Universal Robots Universal Robots is a leading provider of collaborative robots (cobots) used across various industries, including automotive, food beverage, metal machining, electronics, pharmaceutical, and in education. Founded in 2005 and headquartered in Odense, Denmark, Universal Robots aims to create a world where people work with robots, not like robots. Its mission is simple: Automation for anyone. Anywhere. Since introducing the world's first commercially viable cobot in 2008, Universal Robots has sold over 75,000 cobots worldwide and has developed a product portfolio reflecting a range of reaches and payloads, including the UR3e, UR5e, UR10e, UR16e, UR20 and UR30 robots. All models are robust, built to withstand a wide range of industrial environments, and can be easily integrated into existing production setups, providing a number of game-changing benefits: Straightforward programming UR's intuitive software, PolyScope, enables users to program a cobot easily and have an application up and running within a few hours. High return on investment cobots require a lower initial investment than traditional robotics and have an average payback time of 12-18 months. Versatile deployment cobots' high degree of flexibility allows customers to change the task and pace of the cobot according to production demands. Collaborative-capable safety functions following a risk assessment, most cobots can seamlessly operate alongside employees, assisting with dull, dirty, and dangerous tasks. Cutting-edge precision engineering UR's global team of talented engineers creatively tackles customer challenges, ensuring our cobots are rigorously tested and built for demanding industrial tasks. An extensive ecosystem has grown around the company's cobot technology creating innovation, choice for customers and a wide range of components, kits and solutions to suit every application. UR also provides an all-encompassing customer experience including UR Academy - an award-winning training program, available both online and in person in more than 120 training centers worldwide, and three tiers of service offerings carefully designed to accelerate customer success. 5 Table of Contents Universal Robots has recently established global Centers of Excellence for Welding, Palletizing, and Machine Tending applications. These centers, led by subject matter experts, serve as knowledge hubs, offering expert recommendations and guidance on the latest trends in the field to UR partners and key customers worldwide. Mobile Industrial Robots MiR is a leading provider of autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) for the manufacturing and logistics segments. The MiR AMRs enhance productivity, offering a high return on investment by streamlining workforce efficiency, reducing lead times, and improving workplace safety. These AMRs operate autonomously, eliminating the need for traditional guidance infrastructure. MiR currently offers three models MiR250, MiR600, and MiR1350 each with varying payload capacities, all managed by our unified fleet management software, MiR Fleet. Launched in fall 2021, MiR600 and MiR1350 are industrial-grade robots with IP52 rating, compliant with ISO 3691-4 safety standards, and T V certified. All models can be easily integrated into existing production environments. MiR s products are differentiated by their: Ease of Use and Speed of Deployment: Our robots are designed for quick deployment and flexibility, allowing customers to adapt tasks based on changing demands. Safe Operations: Equipped with 360 safety coverage, our robots navigate around static and dynamic obstacles, ensuring safety in busy environments. Reliable Autonomous Navigation: The MiR robots demonstrate consistent, reliable navigation across large manufacturing and warehouse areas. Short Payback Period: With an average payback period of 12 24 months, MiR's products provide a swift return on investment. Sales and Distribution In 2023, revenues from Texas Instruments Inc., a customer of our Semiconductor Test segment, accounted for 10% of our consolidated revenues. In 2021, revenues from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., a customer of our Semiconductor Test segment, accounted for 12% of our consolidated revenues. In each of the years, 2023, 2022 and 2021, our five largest direct customers in aggregate accounted for 32%, 26% and 33% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. OSAT customers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., often purchase our test systems based upon recommendations from OEMs, IDMs and Fabless companies. In all cases when an OSAT customer purchases a test system from us, we consider the OSAT as the customer since credit risk, title and risk of loss, among other things, are between Teradyne and the OSAT. We estimate consolidated revenues driven by Qualcomm, a customer of our Semiconductor Test, System Test, and Wireless Test segments, combining direct and indirect sales, accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated revenues in 2022. We estimate consolidated revenues driven by one OEM customer, of our Semiconductor Test and Wireless Test segments, combining direct sales to that customer with sales to the customer s OSATs (which include Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd.), accounted for approximately 19% of our consolidated revenues in 2021. The loss of, or significant decrease in demand from this OEM customer or any of our five largest direct customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have sales and service offices located throughout North America, Central America, Asia and Europe. We sell in these areas predominantly through a direct sales force, except for Robotics products, which are sold principally through distributors. Our manufacturing activities for our test businesses are primarily conducted through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with significant operations in China and Malaysia. The manufacturing activities for our Robotics businesses are done primarily in our production facilities in Denmark and the U.S. Sales to customers outside the United States were 84%, 85%, and 89%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer site. See also Item 1A: Risk Factors and Note T: Operating Segment, Geographic and Significant Customer Information in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Competition We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment include, among others, Advantest Corporation and Cohu, Inc. Competitors in the System Test segment include, among others, Keysight Technologies, Inc., Advantest Corporation, Test Research, Inc. SPEA S.p.A. and Astronics Corporation. Competitors in our Wireless Test segment include, among others, Rohde Schwarz GmbH Co. KG, Anritsu Company, Keysight Technologies, Inc., National Instruments Corporation, Welzek and iTest. Competitors in our Robotics segment include manufacturers of traditional industrial robots such as KUKA Robotics Corporation, ABB, FANUC, Staubli and Yaskawa Electric Corporation, companies with emerging collaborative robot offerings such as Techman, Doosan, Jaka, and AUBO Robotics, and manufacturers of autonomous mobile robots in the material handling space such as Omron, Rockwell Automation, Junion, HikRobot, Agilox, and KION. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. We also face competition from emerging Asian companies and from internal suppliers at several of our customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also Item 1A: Risk Factors. Backlog At December 31, 2023 and 2022, our backlog of unfilled orders in our four reportable segments was as follows: 2023 2022 (in millions) Semiconductor Test $ 822.8 $ 879.6 System Test 223.8 253.0 Robotics 42.3 42.6 Wireless Test 35.7 60.0 $ 1,124.6 $ 1,235.2 Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without advanced notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Raw Materials Our products contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Some of these components are standard products, while others are manufactured to our specifications. We have experienced delays in obtaining timely delivery of certain components. These delays have impacted and may continue to impact the manufacturing of certain products and the timing of delivery of those products to our customers. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are obtained from sole sources. We may experience a temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers delay or cease to deliver products. Intellectual Property and Licenses The development of our products, both hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our brands and technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands and technology through various methods, such as: patents; copyrights; trademarks; 7 Table of Contents trade secrets; standards of business conduct and related business practices; and technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements. However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent. Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated thro