Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 26 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. (Reserved) 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B. Other Information 103 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 103 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 104 Item 11. Executive Compensation 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 104 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 104 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 104 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 105 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 106 Signatures 112 Table of Contents TERADYNE, INC. FORM 10-K SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. When used herein, the words will, would, believe, anticipate, plan, expect, estimate, project, intend, may, see, target and other words and terms of similar meaning are intended to identify forward-looking statements although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors of this annual report on Form 10-K and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management s analysis only as of the date hereof and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied. Teradyne assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, except as may be required by law. PART I Item 1: Business Teradyne, Inc. ( Teradyne ) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications. We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage and complex electronics systems in many industries including consumer electronics, wireless, automotive, industrial, computing, communications, and aerospace and defense industries. Our industrial automation products include collaborative robotic arms, autonomous mobile robots ( AMRs ) and advanced robotic control software used by global manufacturing, logistics and light industrial customers to improve quality, increase manufacturing and material handling efficiency and decrease manufacturing and logistics costs. Our automatic test equipment and industrial automation products and services include: semiconductor test ( Semiconductor Test ) systems; storage and system level test ( Storage Test ) systems, defense/aerospace ( Defense/Aerospace ) test instrumentation and systems, and circuit-board test and inspection ( Production Board Test ) systems (collectively these products represent System Test ); wireless test ( Wireless Test ) systems; and industrial automation ( Industrial Automation ) products. The market for our test products is concentrated with a limited number of significant customers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of test equipment. A few customers drive significant demand for our products both through direct sales and sales to the customer s supply partners. We expect that sales of our test products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future. In 2021, revenue in our test businesses exceeded our plan as a result of increased Semiconductor Test demand and broad-based growth in our Wireless Test and Storage Test businesses. In 2022, we expect lower demand in our Semiconductor Test business due to a slower technology transition in one of our largest end-markets. We expect this demand to accelerate in 2023 as a result of the expected ramp in volume production of semiconductor devices using 3 nanometer manufacturing technology. 1 Table of Contents Our Industrial Automation segment consists of Universal Robots A/S ( UR ), a leading supplier of collaborative robotic arms, Mobile Industrial Robots A/S ( MiR ), a leading maker of AMRs for industrial automation and AutoGuide, LLC ( AutoGuide ), a maker of high payload AMRs. The market for our Industrial Automation segment products is dependent on the adoption of new automation technologies by large manufacturers as well as small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) throughout the world. In 2021, our Industrial Automation segment returned to growth following the global industrial downturn as well as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. We expect our UR and MiR businesses to continue to grow in 2022, while our AutoGuide business will focus on continuing to invest to scale and integrate high payload AMR solutions. Our corporate strategy continues to focus on profitably gaining market share in our test businesses through the introduction of differentiated products that target expanding segments and accelerating growth through continued investment in our Industrial Automation businesses. We plan to execute on our strategy while balancing capital allocations between returning capital to our shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends and using capital for opportunistic acquisitions. Investor Information We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ). We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically. You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Products Semiconductor Test We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test systems we provide are used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips are used in automotive, industrial, communications, consumer, smartphones, cloud, computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of functionality, from very simple low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning ( AI/ML ) training, high performance computing and microprocessors as well as memory devices. Semiconductor Test products and services are sold to integrated device manufacturers ( IDMs ) that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, Fabless companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, Foundries that cater to the processing and manufacturing of silicon wafers, and semiconductor assembly and test providers ( OSATs ) that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities and use Foundries for wafer manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to: improve and control product quality; measure and improve product performance; 2 Table of Contents reduce time to market; and increase production yields. Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing of many devices in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their Cost of Test economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements through the following key capabilities: A high efficiency multi-site architecture that reduces tester overhead such as instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing; The IG-XL software operating system which provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and Broad technology coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a universal slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs. FLEX Test Platform purchases are made by IDMs, OSATs, Foundries and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely used test solution at OSATs by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include smartphones, cell phones, tablets, set top boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets continue to be drivers for the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of technologies and instrument coverage. In 2019, we introduced our next generation UltraFLEX Plus tester, the newest member of the UltraFLEX family, UltraFLEX Plus uses the new PACE TM architecture to deliver superior economics and fast time to market for complex digital devices. Our J750 test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test Platform systems. The J750 is designed to address the highest volume semiconductor devices, such as microcontrollers, that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automobiles. J750 test systems combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image Sensor test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in smartphones, automobiles and other imaging products. We have continued to invest in the J750 platform with new instrument releases that bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to new devices that include high end microcontrollers and the latest generation of cameras. Our Magnum platform addresses the requirements of mass production test of memory devices for flash and DRAM memory. Flash and DRAM memory are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum 7, the newest member of the family introduced at the end of 2021, is a next generation memory test solution designed for parallel memory test in the flash, DRAM and multi-chip package markets. In 2019, we introduced a high-speed DRAM test version of our Magnum platform called Magnum EPIC giving us full product coverage of the memory test market. Our ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the analog/mixed signal markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Our proprietary SmartPin technology enables high efficiency multi-site testing, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by ETS platform systems are incorporated into a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including mobile devices, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The newest products from the platform include the 3 Table of Contents ETS-88, a high performance multi-site production test system designed to test a wide variety of high volume commodity and precision devices, and the ETS-800, a high performance multi-site production test system to test high complexity power devices in automotive, industrial and consumer applications. System Test Our System Test segment is comprised of three business units: Storage Test, Defense/Aerospace, and Production Board Test. Storage Test The Storage Test business unit addresses the high throughput, automated manufacturing test requirements of hard disk drive ( HDD ) and semiconductor manufacturers. Our HDD products address the client and enterprise storage markets. The client market is driven by the needs of desktop, laptop, and external HDD storage products. The enterprise market is driven by the needs of data centers and cloud storage. Our system level test product for the semiconductor production market is used to test devices following wafer and package test. The business unit s products lead in addressing customer requirements related to factory density, throughput and thermal performance. Defense/Aerospace We are a leading provider of high performance test systems, subsystems, instruments and service for the defense and aerospace markets. Our test products are used to ensure the readiness of military and commercial aerospace electronics systems. New programs, such as tactical aircraft and missile systems, as well as upgrade programs, continue to fuel the demand for high performance test systems in this market. Our test products are well-suited to the demands of defense/aerospace electronics manufacturers and repair depots worldwide. Our leadership in this market is underscored by our success with major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied defense services worldwide. Production Board Test Our test systems are used by electronics manufacturers worldwide to perform In-Circuit-Test ( ICT ) and device programming of printed circuit board assemblies. Fast, accurate and cost-effective test capabilities are hallmark features of our Test Station and Spectrum ICT product families. We offer the Test Station in off-line and automated in-line configurations. The automated in-line configurations address the growing requirements for automating production lines for high volume applications, such as automotive electronics. Wireless Test Our Wireless Test business operates under the LitePoint brand name and provides test solutions utilized in the development and manufacturing of wireless devices and modules. The world s leading makers of smartphones, tablets, notebooks, laptops, peripherals, and Internet-of-Things ( IoT ) devices rely on LitePoint technology to ensure their products get into consumer hands with high quality and high efficiency. LitePoint hardware and software wireless test solutions are used in test insertions that span design verification to high volume manufacturing and are deployed across the entire production eco-system from the wireless chipset suppliers to the consumer brands. Wireless devices are often tested at multiple points along the manufacturing process that include insertions at component, system-in-package ( SiP ), module, PCB, SMT and finished product stages. Design verification is an important step in the development process for evaluating product performance prior to starting production. As end market unit volumes have increased, the quantity of units and the amount of data that must be analyzed for a successful product launch continues to grow. LitePoint products provide easy to use, domain specific tools for rapid analysis of product performance. This helps to speed time to market. 4 Table of Contents In high volume manufacturing, wireless test enables the calibration of each individual product s wireless performance to improve range, data throughput and battery life. Testing also verifies product specifications for product quality control. As markets become increasingly competitive, product performance and quality provide brand differentiation. Wireless standards can be thought of in three categories: connectivity, cellular and location. Connectivity covers many standards such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. LitePoint s IQxel products cover emerging Wi-Fi standards such as WiFi 6E and WiFi 7 which makes use of the newly allocated 6-7GHz spectrum. Connectivity also includes a variety of other standards such as Bluetooth Classic, Bluetooth 5.0 and Bluetooth low energy, Zigbee, Z-Wave, NFC, LoRa and others. The IQxel product family s high performance wireless and multi-device testing economics are aligned with the needs of networking equipment, Internet gateways, IoT products and embedded modules used in smartphones, tablets, and PCs. In 2021, LitePoint introduced the IQxel-MX testing solution for the testing of Wi-Fi devices. Another connectivity product, the IQnfc, addresses the use of NFC technology for payments with mobile devices. Cellular standards include 2G, 3G, 4G and the new 5G mobile phone technologies. LitePoint s IQxstream is a multi-device production test optimized solution for high speed testing of GSM, EDGE, CDMA2000, TD-SCDMA, WCDMA, HSPA+, LTE and 5G technologies. It is used for calibration and verification of smartphones, tablets, small cell radio units and embedded cellular modules. The IQcell, is a multi-device cellular signaling test solution which enables user experience testing of LTE and 5G cellular devices over-the-air. The IQgig family provides test solutions at the intermediate and millimeter wave frequencies for 5G, proximity radar and 802.11ad. Location technologies have traditionally been satellite-based wireless signals such as GPS and GLONASS, which are tested on LitePoint s connectivity and cellular equipment. A new technology called Ultra-WideBand is being adopted in IoT, automotive and mobile phones. Ultra-WideBand provides finer location capability and is tested on LitePoint s IQgig-UWB equipment. To complement the test systems, LitePoint offers turnkey test software for over 350 of the most popular wireless chipsets. These optimized solutions provide rapid development of high volume manufacturing solutions with a minimum of engineering effort by customers. Industrial Automation Our Industrial Automation segment is comprised of three business units: Universal Robots, Mobile Industrial Robots and AutoGuide. Universal Robots Universal Robots is a leading supplier of collaborative robots, which are low-cost, easy-to-deploy and simple-to-program robots that work side by side with production workers to improve quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and decrease manufacturing costs. Collaborative robots are designed to mimic the motion of a human arm and can be fitted with task specific grippers or end effectors to support a wide range of applications. Universal Robots offers a variety of collaborative robot models, including the UR3, UR5, UR10 and UR16, each with different weight carrying capacity and arm reach. All models are easily integrated into existing production environments. Universal Robots products are differentiated by their: easy programming using a graphical interface which allows users to program the collaborative robot in a few hours; flexibility and ease of use in allowing customers to change the task the collaborative robot is performing as their production demands dictate; 5 Table of Contents safe operations as collaborative robots can assist workers in side-by-side production environments requiring no special safety enclosures or shielding to protect workers; and short payback period, on average less than 12 months. In 2018, Universal Robots introduced its e-Series collaborative robots which include technology advances that enable faster development of applications, greater precision and improved safety. Universal Robots offers four e-Series collaborative robot models UR3e, UR5e, UR10e and UR16e. In 2021, Universal Robots introduced the upgraded version of its UR10e with 25% more payload to address market demand. Cumulatively, Universal Robots has sold over 60,000 collaborative robots in diverse production environments and applications. Mobile Industrial Robots MiR is a leading supplier of AMRs, which are low-cost, easy-to-deploy and simple-to-program mobile robots that increase manufacturing and warehouse efficiency and decrease costs. Collaborative autonomous mobile robots are designed to move material from point to point via autonomous navigation rather than the need for traditional mobile robot guidance infrastructure such as painted or magnetic strips and are designed to navigate safely around obstacles and people. MiR offers seven collaborative autonomous mobile robot models, MiR100, MiR200, MiR250, MiR500, MiR600, MiR1000 and MiR1350, each with different payload carrying capacity. MiR 600 and MiR1350 were launched in the fall 2021. All models are easily integrated into existing production environments. MiR s products are differentiated by their: easy programming using a graphical interface which allows users to program the collaborative robot in a few hours; ease of use, speed of deployment and flexibility in allowing customers to change the task as their demands dictate; reliable autonomous navigation over large manufacturing and warehouse areas; and short payback period, on average 12 18 months. Cumulatively, MiR has sold over 6,000 collaborative autonomous mobile robots in diverse production and warehouse environments and applications. AutoGuide AutoGuide is a maker of high payload AMRs, an emerging and fast-growing segment of the global forklift market. AutoGuide s AMRs are used for material transport of payloads up to 4,500 kg in manufacturing, warehouse and logistics applications. These products complement MiR s lower payload products. Sales and Distribution In 2021 and 2020, revenues from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., a customer of our Semiconductor Test segment, accounted for 12% and 15%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. In 2019, no single direct customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. In each of the years, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our five largest direct customers in aggregate accounted for 33%, 36% and 27% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. OSAT customers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., often purchase our test systems based upon recommendations from OEMs, IDMs and Fabless companies. In all cases when an OSAT customer purchases a test system from us, we consider the OSAT as the customer since credit risk, title and risk of loss, among other things, are between Teradyne and the OSAT. We estimate consolidated revenues driven by one OEM customer, combining direct sales to that customer with sales to the customer s OSATs (which include 6 Table of Contents Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd.), accounted for approximately 19%, 25% and 10% of our consolidated revenues in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The loss of, or significant decrease in demand from this OEM customer or any of our five largest direct customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We estimate consolidated revenues driven by Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. ( Huawei ), combining direct sales to Huawei with sales to Huawei s OSATs, accounted for approximately 0%, 3% and 11% of our consolidated revenues in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We have sales and service offices located throughout North America, Central America, Asia and Europe. We sell in these areas predominantly through a direct sales force, except for Industrial Automation products, which are sold principally through distributors. Our manufacturing activities for our test businesses are primarily conducted through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with significant operations in China and Malaysia. The manufacturing activities for our Industrial Automation businesses are done primarily in our production facilities in Denmark and the U.S. Sales to customers outside the United States were 89%, 90%, and 85%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues in 2021, 2020 and 2019. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer site. See also Item 1A: Risk Factors and Note T: Operating Segment, Geographic and Significant Customer Information in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment include, among others, Advantest Corporation and Cohu, Inc. Competitors in the System Test segment include, among others, Keysight Technologies, Inc., Advantest Corporation, Test Research, Inc. and SPEA S.p.A. Competitors in our Wireless Test segment include, among others, Rohde Schwarz GmbH Co. KG, Anritsu Company, Keysight Technologies, Inc., National Instruments Corporation, Welzek and iTest. Competitors in our Industrial Automation segment include manufacturers of traditional industrial robots such as KUKA Robotics Corporation, ABB, FANUC and Yaskawa Electric Corporation, companies with emerging collaborative robot offerings such as Techman, Doosan, and AUBO Robotics, and manufacturers of autonomous mobile robots such as Omron, Fetch, OTTO Motors, Vecna, Seegrid and Balyo. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. We also face competition from emerging Asian companies and from internal suppliers at several of our customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also Item 1A: Risk Factors. Backlog At December 31, 2021 and 2020, our backlog of unfilled orders in our four reportable segments was as follows: 2021 2020 (in millions) Semiconductor Test $ 824.1 $ 567.4 System Test 375.4 290.6 Wireless Test 56.8 41.6 Industrial Automation 49.7 30.0 $ 1,306.0 $ 929.6 7 Table of Contents Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without advanced notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Raw Materials Our products contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Some of these components are standard products, while others are manufactured to our specifications. We have experienced delays in obtaining timely delivery of certain components. These delays have impacted and may continue to impact the manufacturing of certain products and the timing of delivery of those products to our customers. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are obtained from sole sources. We may experience a temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers delay or cease to deliver products. Intellectual Property and Licenses The development of our products, both hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our brands and technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands and technology through various methods, such as: patents; copyrights; trademarks; trade secrets; standards of business conduct and related business practices; and technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements. However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent. Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated through appropriate legal processes. We do not believe that any single piece of intellectual property or proprietary rights is essential to our business. Human Capital Resources We believe that our future success depends upon our continued ability to attract, develop, and retain a hig