Item 1 Business 4 Item 1A Risk Factors 19 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments (None to be reported) Item 1C Cybersecurity 41 Item 2 Properties 41 Item 3 Legal Proceedings (see Note 16) 134 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures (Not applicable) PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview 45 Analysis of Results of Operations 48 Analysis of Financial Condition 55 Risk Management 68 Liquidity 78 Capital 81 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (see Market Risk) 70 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 238 ) 87 Consolidated Balance Sheets 90 Consolidated Statements of Income 91 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 92 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity 93 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 94 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Basis of Presentation 95 Note 2. Business Combinations, Divestitures, and Noncontrolling Interests 110 Note 3. Securities Financing Activities 111 Note 4. Investment Securities 112 Note 5. Loans and ACL 114 Note 6. Premises and Equipment 122 Note 7. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 123 Note 8. Loan Servicing 124 Note 9. Other Assets and Liabilities 125 Note 10. Deposits 126 Note 11. Borrowings 126 Note 12. Shareholders Equity 127 Note 13. AOCI 128 Note 14. Income Taxes 129 Note 15. Benefit Plans 131 Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies 134 Note 17. Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions 139 Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures 140 Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments 145 Note 20. Computation of EPS 150 Note 21. Operating Segments 150 Note 22. Parent Company Financial Information 154 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure (None to be reported) Item 9A Controls and Procedures 156 Item 9B Other Information 156 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections (Not applicable) PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance * Item 11 Executive Compensation * Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters * Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence * Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services * PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Financial Statements (see Listing in Item 8 above) Exhibits 157 Financial Statement Schedules (None required) Item 16 Form 10-K Summary (None) * For information regarding executive officers, refer to Executive Officers in Part I. The other information required by Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings Nominees for Election as Directors for a One-Year Term Expiring in 2025, Section 16(a) Reports, Nominating and Governance Committee Director Nominations, Ethics at Truist, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and Audit Committee in the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2024 annual meeting of shareholders. The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Compensation of Executive Officers, Compensation and Human Capital Committee Report on Executive Compensation, Compensation and Human Capital Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, and Compensation of Directors in the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2024 annual meeting of shareholders. For information regarding the registrant s securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, refer to Equity Compensation Plan Information in Part II herein. The other information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the heading Stock Ownership Information in the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2024 annual meeting of shareholders. The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings Director Independence and Related Person Transactions in the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2024 annual meeting of shareholders. The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings Fees to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy in the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2024 annual meeting of shareholders. Glossary of Defined Terms The following terms may be used throughout this report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Term Definition ACL Allowance for credit losses AFS Available-for-sale Agency MBS Mortgage-backed securities issued by a U.S. government agency or GSE ALLL Allowance for loan and lease losses ALM Asset/Liability management AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ARRC Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the FRB and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Basel III Rules Rules issued by the FRB, OCC, and FDIC on capital adequacy and liquidity requirements in the U.S for banking organizations. BB T BB T Corporation and subsidiaries (changed to Truist Financial Corporation effective with the Merger) BCBS Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BHC Bank holding company BHCA Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended Board Truist s Board of Directors Branch Bank Branch Banking and Trust Company (changed to Truist Bank effective with the Merger) BSA/AML Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering C CB Corporate and Commercial Banking, an operating segment CB W Consumer Banking and Wealth, an operating segment CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCB Capital Conservation Buffer CD Certificate of deposit CDI Core deposit intangible CECL Current expected credit loss model CEO Chief Executive Officer CET1 Common equity tier 1 CFO Chief Financial Officer CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission CIB Corporate and Investment Banking CIO Chief Information Officer CISO Chief Information Security Officer CMO Collateralized mortgage obligation Company Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with Truist below) COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019 CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 CRE Commercial real estate CRO Chief Risk Officer CTRO Chief Technology Risk Officer DEI Diversity, Equity Inclusion DIF Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DTA Deferred tax asset DTL Deferred tax liability EGRRCPA Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act EPS Earnings per common share ERC Enterprise Risk Committee ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FHA Federal Housing Administration FHC Financial holding company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FHLMC Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FNMA Federal National Mortgage Association FRB Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FTE Full-time equivalent employee GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America GCO Governance and Controls Organization GDP Gross Domestic Product GNMA Government National Mortgage Association Grandbridge Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC GSE U.S. government-sponsored enterprise GSIBs Global systemically important banks HFI Held for investment HQLA High-quality liquid assets Truist Financial Corporation 1 Term Definition HTM Held-to-maturity IDI Insured depository institution IH Insurance Holdings, an operating segment IPV Independent price verification IRC Internal Revenue Code IRS Internal Revenue Service ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LHFS Loans held for sale LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR Act Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act LOCOM Lower of cost or market Market Risk Rule Market risk capital requirements issued jointly by the OCC, U.S. Treasury, FRB, and FDIC MBS Mortgage-backed securities MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Merger Merger of BB T Corporation and SunTrust Banks, Inc. effective December 6, 2019 MRLCC Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital Committee MRO Model Risk Oversight MSR Mortgage servicing right MSRB Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board NA Not applicable NCCOB North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks NFA National Futures Association NIM Net interest margin, computed on a TE basis NM Not meaningful NPA Nonperforming asset NPL Nonperforming loan NSFR Net stable funding ratio NYSE New York Stock Exchange OAS Option adjusted spread OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other comprehensive income (loss) OFAC U.S. Department of the Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control OPEB Other post-employment benefit OREO Other real estate owned OT C Other, Treasury and Corporate OTC Over-the-counter Parent Company Truist Financial Corporation, the parent company of Truist Bank and other subsidiaries Patriot Act Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 PCD Purchased credit deteriorated loans PSU Performance share units RMO Risk Management Organization ROU assets Right-of-use assets RSA Restricted stock award RSU Restricted stock unit RUFC Reserve for unfunded lending commitments S P Standard Poor s SBA Small Business Administration SBIC Small Business Investment Company SCB Stress Capital Buffer SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SunTrust SunTrust Banks, Inc. Tailoring Rules The final rules changing the applicability thresholds for regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, issued by the OCC, FRB, and FDIC, together with the final rules changing the applicability thresholds for enhanced prudential standards issued by the FRB TBA To-be-announced TBVPS Tangible book value per common share TDR Troubled debt restructuring TE Taxable-equivalent TIH Truist Insurance Holdings, LLC TRS Total Return Swap Truist Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with the Company above) Truist Bank Truist Bank, formerly Branch Banking and Trust Company U.S. United States of America U.S. DOJ United States Department of Justice U.S. Treasury United States Department of the Treasury UPB Unpaid principal balance USAA United Services Automobile Association UTB Unrecognized tax benefit VaR Value-at-risk VIE Variable interest entity 2 Truist Financial Corporation Forward-Looking Statements From time to time we have made, and in the future will make, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, pursue, seek, continue, estimate, project, outlook, forecast, potential, target, objective, trend, plan, goal, initiative, priorities, or other words of comparable meaning or future-tense or conditional verbs such as may, will, should, would, or could. Forward-looking statements convey our expectations, intentions, or forecasts about future events, circumstances, or results. This report, including any information incorporated by reference in this report, contains forward-looking statements. We also may make forward-looking statements in other documents that are filed or furnished with the SEC. In addition, we may make forward-looking statements orally or in writing to investors, analysts, members of the media, and others. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, which may change over time and many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on any forward-looking statement as a prediction or guarantee about the future. Actual future objectives, strategies, plans, prospects, performance, conditions, and results may differ materially from those set forth in any forward-looking statement. While no list of assumptions, risks, and uncertainties could be complete, some of the factors that may cause actual results or other future events or circumstances to differ from those in forward-looking statements include: evolving political, business, economic, and market conditions at local, regional, national, and international levels; monetary, fiscal, and trade laws or policies, including as a result of actions by governmental agencies, central banks, or supranational authorities; the legal, regulatory, and supervisory environment, including changes in financial-services legislation, regulation, policies, or government officials or other personnel; our ability to address heightened scrutiny and expectations from supervisory or other governmental authorities and to timely and credibly remediate related concerns or deficiencies; judicial, regulatory, and administrative inquiries, examinations, investigations, proceedings, disputes, or rulings that create uncertainty for or are adverse to us or the financial-services industry; the outcomes of judicial, regulatory, and administrative inquiries, examinations, investigations, proceedings, or disputes to which we are or may be subject and our ability to absorb and address any damages or other remedies that are sought or awarded and any collateral consequences; evolving accounting standards and policies; the adequacy of our corporate governance, risk-management framework, compliance programs, and internal controls over financial reporting, including our ability to control lapses or deficiencies in financial reporting, to make appropriate estimates, or to effectively mitigate or manage operational risk; any instability or breakdown in the financial system, including as a result of the actual or perceived soundness of another financial institution or another participant in the financial system; disruptions and shifts in investor sentiment or behavior in the securities, capital, or other financial markets, including financial or systemic shocks and volatility or changes in market liquidity, interest or currency rates, or valuations; our ability to cost-effectively fund our businesses and operations, including by accessing long- and short-term funding and liquidity and by retaining and growing client and customer deposits; changes in any of our credit ratings; our ability to manage any unexpected outflows of uninsured deposits and avoid selling investment securities or other assets at an unfavorable time or at a loss; negative market perceptions of our investment portfolio or its value; adverse publicity or other reputational harm to us, our service providers, or our senior officers; business and consumer sentiment, preferences, or behavior, including spending, borrowing, or saving by businesses or households; our ability to execute on strategic and operational plans, including simplifying our businesses, achieving cost-savings targets and lowering expense growth, accelerating franchise momentum, and improving our capital position; changes in our corporate and business strategies, the composition of our assets, or the way in which we fund those assets; our ability to successfully make and integrate acquisitions and to effect divestitures; our ability to develop, maintain, and market our products or services or to absorb unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with those products or services; our ability to innovate, to anticipate the needs of current or future clients and customers, to successfully compete, to increase or hold market share in changing competitive environments, or to deal with pricing or other competitive pressures; our ability to maintain secure and functional financial, accounting, technology, data processing, or other operating systems or infrastructure, including those that safeguard personal and other sensitive information; our ability to appropriately underwrite loans that we originate or purchase and to otherwise manage credit risk, including in connection with commercial and consumer mortgage loans; our ability to satisfactorily and profitably perform loan servicing and similar obligations; the credit, liquidity, or other financial condition of our customers, counterparties, service providers, or competitors; our ability to effectively deal with economic, business, or market slowdowns or disruptions; the efficacy of our methods or models in assessing business strategies or opportunities or in valuing, measuring, estimating, monitoring, or managing positions or risk; our ability to keep pace with changes in technology that affect us or our clients, customers, counterparties, service providers, or competitors or to maintain rights or interests in associated intellectual property; our ability to attract, hire, and retain key teammates and to engage in adequate succession planning; the performance and availability of third-party service providers on whom we rely in delivering products and services to our clients and customers and otherwise in conducting our business and operations; our ability to detect, prevent, mitigate, and otherwise manage the risk of fraud or misconduct by internal or external parties; our ability to manage and mitigate physical-security and cybersecurity risks, including denial-of-service attacks, hacking, phishing, social-engineering attacks, malware intrusion, data-corruption attempts, system breaches, identity theft, ransomware attacks, environmental conditions, and intentional acts of destruction; natural or other disasters, calamities, and conflicts, including terrorist events, cyber-warfare, and pandemics; widespread outages of operational, communication, and other systems; our ability to maintain appropriate ESG practices, oversight, and disclosures; policies and other actions of governments to manage and mitigate climate and related environmental risks, and the effects of climate change or the transition to a lower-carbon economy on our business, operations, and reputation; and other assumptions, risks, or uncertainties described in the Risk Factors (Item 1A), Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7), or the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8) in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or described in any of the Company s annual, quarterly or current reports. Any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf speaks only as of the date that it was made. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of events, circumstances, or results that arise after the date that the statement was made, except as required by applicable securities laws. You, however, should consult further disclosures (including disclosures of a forward-looking nature) that we may make in any subsequent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or Current Report on Form 8-K. Truist Financial Corporation 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Truist Financial Corporation is a purpose-driven financial services company committed to inspiring and building better lives and communities. As a leading U.S. commercial bank, Truist has leading market share in many of the high-growth markets across the country. Truist offers a wide range of products and services through its wholesale and consumer businesses, including consumer and small business banking, commercial banking, corporate and investment banking, insurance, wealth management, payments, and specialized lending businesses. Headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, Truist is a top-10 commercial bank. Truist Bank, Truist s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for clients through 2,001 offices as of December 31, 2023 and its digital platform. Services Truist s subsidiaries offer commercial and consumer clients a full array of products and services to meet their financial needs. The following table reflects examples of services provided by Truist: Table 1: Services Consumer Services: Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Credit card lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Consumer finance Commercial lending Home equity and other direct retail lending Floor plan lending Home mortgage lending Derivatives Insurance Institutional trust services Investment brokerage services Insurance Mobile/online banking Insurance premium finance Payment solutions International banking Point-of-sale lending Investment banking and capital markets services Retail and small business deposit products Leasing Small business lending Merchant services Wealth management/private banking Mortgage warehouse lending Payment solutions Real estate lending Supply chain financing Market Area The following table reflects Truist s deposit market share and branch locations by state: Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State % of Truist s Deposits (2) Deposit Market Share Rank (2) Number of Branches (3) Florida 23 % 3rd 452 Georgia 19 1st 213 Virginia 15 2nd 265 North Carolina (1) 13 2nd 285 Maryland 7 3rd 145 Tennessee 5 4th 100 Pennsylvania 4 9th 146 South Carolina 4 3rd 98 Texas 3 21st 99 West Virginia 2 1st 43 Kentucky 2 4th 55 Washington, D.C. 1 5th 22 Alabama 1 6th 51 New Jersey 1 24th 21 Other states NA NA 6 (1) Deposit market share rank excludes home office deposits. (2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2023. (3) As of December 31, 2023. 4 Truist Financial Corporation Competition The financial services industry is intensely competitive and constantly evolving. Management believes that Truist s client-first approach is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop Truist s digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are competitive in meeting clients expectations. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes, as well as continued consolidation within the industry, could result in increased competition from new and existing market participants. Truist s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional, and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment advisers, asset managers, securities brokers and dealers, private-equity funds, hedge funds, mortgage-banking companies, finance companies, financial technology companies, and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide financial products and services directly as well as indirectly through partnerships has increased competition. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which we operate. Some also have greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than ours. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and client growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and client service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will only intensify in the future. General Business Development Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients financial needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist s long-term strategy primarily encompasses organically growing and deepening client relationships across its core and profitable businesses. Merger and Acquisition Strategy The Company operates a diverse set of business lines nationally, with strong market shares concentrated in high growth markets in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. Truist will continue to perform the appropriate due diligence on potential strategic mergers and acquisitions to enhance growth, when market conditions, business objectives, profitability, impact to capital, and market share considerations align to create favorable opportunities. Although mergers and acquisitions are not a top capital distribution priority for Truist, the Company will continue to assess future opportunities, which may include financial services businesses that strengthen Truist s capabilities, and banks that enhance Truist s market position. Truist s merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive in that it: enhances scale and increases revenue via expanded markets and/or products; improves the client experience; and solidifies Truist s position within the future of banking; the organization must be a good fit with Truist s culture; associated risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place, such that any residual risks fall within Truist s risk appetite; and the transaction must meet Truist s financial criteria. Truist Financial Corporation 5 Regulatory and Supervisory Considerations We are subject to significant regulatory frameworks that affect the products and services that we may offer and the manner in which we may offer them, the risks that we may take, the ways in which we may operate, and the corporate and financial actions that we may take. We are also subject to direct supervision and periodic examinations by various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations that are charged with overseeing the kinds of business activities in which we engage. These agencies and organizations generally have broad authority and discretion in restricting and otherwise affecting our businesses and operations and may take formal or informal supervisory, enforcement, and other actions against us when, in the applicable agency s or organization s judgment, our businesses or operations fail to comply with applicable law, comport with safe and sound practices, or meet its supervisory expectations. We strive to maintain constructive relationships with supervisory authorities. The regulatory and supervisory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and other customers, the DIF, the broader economy, and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and non-deposit creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including the banking turmoil in early 2023, technological factors, market changes, climate change concerns, as well as increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal bank regulators. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Truist is subject. These descriptions do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statutes or regulatory provisions. General As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to regulation, examination, and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the NCCOB and the FDIC. Truist Bank and its affiliates are also subject to examination by the CFPB for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws. Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those tha