Item 1 Business 5 Item 1A Risk Factors 19 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments (None to be reported) Item 2 Properties 32 Item 3 Legal Proceedings (see Note 16) 126 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures (Not applicable) PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (see Market Risk Management) 64 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Quarterly Financial Summary 72 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 79 Consolidated Balance Sheets 82 Consolidated Statements of Income 83 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 84 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity 85 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 86 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Basis of Presentation 87 Note 2. Business Combinations 99 Note 3. Securities Financing Activities 103 Note 4. Investment Securities 104 Note 5. Loans and ACL 106 Note 6. Premises and Equipment 111 Note 7. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 111 Note 8. Loan Servicing 112 Note 9. Other Assets and Liabilities 114 Note 10. Deposits 115 Note 11. Borrowings 115 Note 12. Shareholders' Equity 116 Note 13. AOCI 118 Note 14. Income Taxes 119 Note 15. Benefit Plans 121 Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies 126 Note 17. Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions 130 Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures 131 Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments 136 Note 20. Computation of EPS 140 Note 21. Operating Segments 140 Note 22. Parent Company Financial Information 144 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure (None to be reported) Item 9A Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B Other Information (None to be reported) PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance * Item 11 Executive Compensation * Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters * Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence * Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services * PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Financial Statements (see Listing in Item 8 above) Exhibits 146 Financial Statement Schedules (None required) Item 16 Form 10-K Summary (None) * For information regarding executive officers, refer to "Executive Officers" in Part I. The other information required by Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Nominees for Election as Directors for a One-Year Term Expiring in 2021," "Nominating and Governance Committee Director Nominations," "Ethics at Truist," and "Audit Committee" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "Compensation of Executive Officers," "Compensation and Human Capital Committee Report on Executive Compensation," "Compensation and Human Capital Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. For information regarding the registrant's securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, refer to "Equity Compensation Plan Information" in Part II herein. The other information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the heading "Stock Ownership Information" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Director Independence" and "Related Person Transactions" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Fees to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" and "Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Glossary of Defined Terms The following terms may be used throughout this report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Term Definition ACL Allowance for credit losses AFS Available-for-sale Agency MBS Mortgage-backed securities issued by a U.S. government agency or GSE ALLL Allowance for loan and lease losses ALM Asset/Liability management ARRC Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the FRB and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Basel III Rules Rules issued by the FRB, OCC and FDIC on capital adequacy and liquidity requirements in the U.S for banking organizations. BB T BB T Corporation and subsidiaries (changed to "Truist Financial Corporation" effective with the Merger) BCBS Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BHC Bank holding company BHCA Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended Branch Bank Branch Banking and Trust Company (changed to "Truist Bank" effective with the Merger) BSA/AML Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Board Truist's Board of Directors BU Business Unit C CB Corporate and Commercial Banking, an operating segment CB W Consumer Banking and Wealth, an operating segment CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CD Certificate of deposit CDI Core deposit intangible CECL Current expected credit loss model CEO Chief Executive Officer CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFO Chief Financial Officer CET1 Common equity tier 1 CIB Corporate and Investment Banking CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CMO Collateralized mortgage obligation Company Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with "Truist" below), formerly BB T Corporation CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 CRE Commercial real estate CRO Chief Risk Officer DC Disclosure Committee DIF Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DTA Deferred tax asset DTL Deferred tax liability EBPCC Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee ECRPMC Enterprise Credit Risk and Portfolio Management Committee EGRRCPA Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act ERC Enterprise Risk Committee ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 EPS Earnings per common share EVE Economic value of equity Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FHA Federal Housing Administration FHC Financial holding company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FHLMC Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FNMA Federal National Mortgage Association Truist Financial Corporation 1 Term Definition FRB Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FTP Funds transfer pricing GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act GNMA Government National Mortgage Association Grandbridge Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC GSE U.S. government-sponsored enterprise HFI Held for investment HMDA Home Mortgage Disclosure Act HQLA High-quality liquid assets HRA Health Reimbursement Account HTM Held-to-maturity IDI Insured depository institution IH Insurance Holdings, an operating segment IPV Independent price verification IRC Internal Revenue Code IRS Internal Revenue Service ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LHFS Loans held for sale LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LOCOM Lower of cost or market Market Risk Rule Market risk capital requirements issued jointly by the OCC, U.S. Treasury, FRB, and FDIC MBS Mortgage-backed securities MD A Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Merger Merger of BB T and SunTrust effective December 6, 2019 MRLCC Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital Committee MRM Model Risk Management MSR Mortgage servicing right MSRB Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board N/A Not applicable NCCOB North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks NCF P National Consumer Finance and Payments NIM Net interest margin, computed on a TE basis NM Not meaningful NOL Net operating loss NPA Nonperforming asset NPL Nonperforming loan NSFR Net stable funding ratio NYSE New York Stock Exchange OAS Option adjusted spread OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other comprehensive income (loss) OFAC U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control OPEB Other post-employment benefit OREO Other real estate owned OT C Other, Treasury and Corporate OTC Over-the-counter OTTI Other-than-temporary impairment Parent Company Truist Financial Corporation, the parent company of Truist Bank and other subsidiaries Patriot Act Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 PCI Purchased credit impaired loans Peer Group Financial holding companies included in the industry peer group index PSU Performance share units Re-REMICs Re-securitizations of Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits Regions Insurance Regions Insurance Group, acquired effective July 2, 2018 RMO Risk Risk Management Organization 2 Truist Financial Corporation Term Definition ROU assets Right-of-use assets RSA Restricted Stock Award RSU Restricted stock unit RUFC Reserve for unfunded lending commitments S P Standard Poor's SBIC Small Business Investment Company SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Short-Term Borrowings Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowed funds with original maturities of less than one year SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SunTrust SunTrust Banks, Inc. Tailoring Rules The final rules changing the applicability thresholds for regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, issued by the OCC, FRB, and FDIC, together with the final rules changing the applicability thresholds for enhanced prudential standards issues by the FRB TBA To be announced TDR Troubled debt restructuring TE Taxable-equivalent TMC Technology Management Committee TRS Total Return Swap Truist Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with the "Company" above), formerly BB T Corporation Truist Bank Truist Bank, formerly Branch Banking and Trust company U.S. United States of America U.S. Treasury United States Department of the Treasury UPB Unpaid principal balance UTB Unrecognized tax benefit VaR Value-at-risk VEBA Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association VIE Variable interest entity Truist Financial Corporation 3 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, regarding the financial condition, results of operations, business plans and the future performance of Truist. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "plans," "projects," "may," "will," "should," would," "could" and other similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts but instead represent management's expectations and assumptions regarding Truist's business, the economy and other future conditions. Such statements involve inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. As such, Truist s actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements. While there can be no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed under Item 1A-Risk Factors: risks and uncertainties relating to the Merger, including the ability to successfully integrate the companies or to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger; expenses relating to the Merger and integration of heritage BB T and heritage SunTrust; deposit attrition, client loss or revenue loss following completed mergers or acquisitions may be greater than anticipated; changes in the interest rate environment, including the replacement of LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark, which could adversely affect Truist s revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital, cash flows, and liquidity; volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and changes in carrying values of Truist s servicing assets and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates; management s ability to effectively manage credit risk; inability to access short-term funding or liquidity; loss of client deposits, which could increase Truist s funding costs; changes in Truist s credit ratings, which could increase the cost of funding or limit access to capital markets; additional capital and liquidity requirements that will result from the Merger; regulatory matters, litigation or other legal actions, which may result in, among other things, costs, fines, penalties, restrictions on Truist s business activities, reputational harm, or other adverse consequences risks related to originating and selling mortgages, including repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers related to representations and warranties on loans sold, which could result in an increase in the amount of losses for loan repurchases; failure to execute on strategic or operational plans, including the ability to successfully complete and/or integrate mergers and acquisitions; risks relating to Truist s role as a servicer of loans, including an increase in the scope or costs of the services Truist is required to perform without any corresponding increase in Truist s servicing fee, or a breach of Truist s obligations as servicer; negative public opinion, which could damage Truist s reputation; increased scrutiny regarding Truist s consumer sales practices, training practices, incentive compensation design and governance; competition from new or existing competitors, including increased competition from products and services offered by non-bank financial technology companies, may reduce Truist s client base, cause Truist to lower prices for its products and services in order to maintain market share or otherwise adversely impact Truist s businesses or results of operations; Truist s ability to introduce new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology that achieve market acceptance and regulatory approval; Truist s success depends on the expertise of key personnel, and if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements Truist's operations and integration activities could be adversely impacted. This could be exacerbated as Truist continues to integrate the management teams of heritage BB T and heritage SunTrust, or if the organization is unable to hire and retain qualified personnel; legislative, regulatory or accounting changes may adversely affect the businesses in which Truist is engaged; evolving regulatory standards, including with respect to capital and liquidity requirements, and results of regulatory examinations, may adversely affect Truist's financial condition and results of operations; accounting policies and processes require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain; general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, slower deposit or asset growth, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, insurance or other services; risk management measures and management oversight functions may not identify or address risks adequately; unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings or other claims or regulatory or other governmental investigations or inquiries could result in negative publicity, protests, fines, penalties, restrictions on Truist's operations or ability to expand its business or other negative consequences, all of which could cause reputational damage and adversely impact Truist's financial condition and results of operations; competitors of Truist may have greater financial resources or develop products that enable them to compete more successfully than Truist and may be subject to different regulatory standards than Truist; failure to maintain or enhance Truist s competitive position with respect to technology, whether it fails to anticipate client expectations or because its technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not rolled out in a timely manner or for other reasons, may cause Truist to lose market share or incur additional expense; fraud or misconduct by internal or external parties, which Truist may not be able to prevent, detect or mitigate; operational or communications systems, including systems used by vendors or other external parties, may fail or may be the subject of a breach or cyber-attack that, if successful, could adversely impact Truist's financial condition and results of operations; security risks, including denial of service attacks, hacking, social engineering attacks targeting Truist s employees and clients, malware intrusion or data corruption attempts, and identity theft could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect Truist s business or reputation or create significant legal or financial exposure; natural or other disasters, including acts of terrorism and pandemics, could have an adverse effect on Truist, including a material disruption of Truist's operations or the ability or willingness of clients to access Truist's products and services; widespread system outages, caused by the failure of critical internal systems or critical services provided by third parties could adversely impact Truist's financial condition and results of operations; and depressed market values for Truist s stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require a write down to goodwill. 4 Truist Financial Corporation ITEM 1. BUSINESS Truist is a banking organization headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Truist conducts its business operations primarily through its bank subsidiary, Truist Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries. Merger with SunTrust Effective December 6, 2019, the Company completed its previously announced Merger with SunTrust pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 7, 2019 and amended as of June 14, 2019. SunTrust offered a full line of financial services for consumers, businesses, corporations, institutions, and not-for-profit entities, both through branches (located primarily in Florida, Georgia, Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Maryland, South Carolina, and the District of Columbia) and through other digital and national delivery channels. Additionally, SunTrust offered deposit, credit, mortgage banking, and trust and investment services to its clients through a selection of full, self and assisted-service channels. Other subsidiaries of SunTrust provided capital markets, securities brokerage, investment banking and wealth management services. SunTrust had 1,164 banking offices as of the Merger date. Refer to "Note 2. Business Combinations" for additional details related to the Merger. Operating Subsidiaries Truist Bank, Truist's largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for consumer and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, corporations, public agencies, local governments and individuals, through 2,958 offices (as of December 31, 2019) and its digital platform. Services Truist's subsidiaries offer a variety of services to consumer and commercial clients. Truist's objective is to offer clients a full array of products to meet all of their financial needs. Table 1: Services Consumer Services: Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Bankcard lending Association services Consumer finance Capital markets services Home equity lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Home mortgage lending Commercial finance Insurance Commercial middle market lending Investment brokerage services Commercial mortgage lending Mobile/online banking Corporate banking Payment solutions Floor plan lending Private equity investments Governmental finance Retail deposit services Institutional trust services Small business lending Insurance Student lending Insurance premium finance Wealth management/private banking International banking services Investment banking services Leasing Merchant services Mortgage warehouse lending Treasury and payment solutions Private equity investments Real estate lending Supply chain financing Truist Financial Corporation 5 Market Area The following table reflects Truist's deposit market share and branch locations by state: Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State % of Deposits (2) Deposit Market Share Rank (2) Number of Branches (3) Georgia 21 % 1st 339 North Carolina (1) 13 1st 402 West Virginia 2 1st 54 Virginia 14 2nd 444 Maryland 7 2nd 241 South Carolina 4 3rd 129 Florida 22 3rd 672 Tennessee 5 3rd 148 Washington, D.C. 2 5th 32 Kentucky 2 4th 81 Alabama 1 6th 70 Pennsylvania 4 9th 203 Texas 2 15th 108 New Jersey 1 19th 26 Other states NA NA 9 (1) Excludes home office deposits. (2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2019. Percentiles and rankings reflect combined data for SunTrust Bank and Branch Bank. (3) As of December 31, 2019. Truist operates in markets covering numerous industries. Management believes that Truist's community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company's ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop its digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are competitive in meeting clients' expectations. Furthermore, Truist believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future. Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive and constantly evolving. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes as well as continued consolidation within the industry could result in additional competition from new and existing market participants. Truist's subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies, financial technology companies and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Non-banking entities are not subject to many of the same regulatory supervision and restrictions as banks and BHCs, and therefore, can often operate with greater flexibility and with lower cost and capital structures. In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction because it affects our ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Management believes that the Company is well positioned to compete and that its continued focus on touch and technology will engender trust among its current and future clients. For additional information concerning markets, Truist's competitive position and business strategies, see "Market Area" above and "General Business Development" in the discussion that follows. General Business Development Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients' needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist's long-term strategy encompasses both organic growth and mergers or acquisitions of complimentary banks and financial institutions. Merger and Acquisition Strategy Truist's merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: the organization must be a good fit with Truist's culture; the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive; any risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place to ensure any residual risks fall within Truist's risk appetite; and the transaction must meet Truist's financial criteria. 6 Truist Financial Corporation Truist's growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Truist will assess future opportunities, primarily within or contiguous to Truist's existing footprint, based on market conditions and may, among other possibilities, pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, certain lending businesses and fee income generating financial services businesses. Regulatory Considerations The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Truist and its subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. Both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors such as technological and market changes. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. While the regulatory environment has entered a period of rebalancing of the post financial crisis framework, Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. The descriptions below summarize certain significant state and federal laws to which Truist is subject. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. They do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in current laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. General As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and regulation, examination and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the NCCOB, the FDIC and the CFPB. Examinations by Truist s regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of Truist s federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist s activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements, against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable law or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of Truist s operations. In November 2018, the FRB finalized a new confidential rating system that applies to all BHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, including Truist. Under this rating system, component ratings are assigned for capital planning and positions, liquidity risk management and positions, and governance and controls; a standalone composite rating will not be assigned. To be considered "well managed" under this rating system, a firm must b