Item 1 Business 4 Item 1A Risk Factors 19 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments (None to be reported) Item 2 Properties 36 Item 3 Legal Proceedings (see Note 16) 121 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures (Not applicable) PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (see Market Risk Management) 64 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID : 238 ) 80 Consolidated Balance Sheets 82 Consolidated Statements of Income 83 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 84 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity 85 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 86 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Basis of Presentation 87 Note 2. Business Combinations 100 Note 3. Securities Financing Activities 101 Note 4. Investment Securities 101 Note 5. Loans and ACL 103 Note 6. Premises and Equipment 109 Note 7. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 109 Note 8. Loan Servicing 110 Note 9. Other Assets and Liabilities 111 Note 10. Deposits 112 Note 11. Borrowings 112 Note 12. Shareholders Equity 113 Note 13. AOCI 115 Note 14. Income Taxes 116 Note 15. Benefit Plans 118 Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies 121 Note 17. Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions 125 Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures 126 Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments 131 Note 20. Computation of EPS 135 Note 21. Operating Segments 136 Note 22. Parent Company Financial Information 139 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure (None to be reported) Item 9A Controls and Procedures 141 Item 9B Other Information (None to be reported) Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections (Not applicable) PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance * Item 11 Executive Compensation * Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters * Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence * Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services * PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Financial Statements (see Listing in Item 8 above) Exhibits 142 Financial Statement Schedules (None required) Item 16 Form 10-K Summary (None) * For information regarding executive officers, refer to "Executive Officers" in Part I. The other information required by Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Nominees for Election as Directors for a One-Year Term Expiring in 2023," "Nominating and Governance Committee Director Nominations," "Ethics at Truist," "Corporate Governance Guidelines," "Audit Committee Report" and "Audit Committee" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "Compensation of Executive Officers," "Compensation and Human Capital Committee Report on Executive Compensation," "Compensation and Human Capital Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. For information regarding the registrant's securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, refer to "Equity Compensation Plan Information" in Part II herein. The other information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the heading "Stock Ownership Information" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Director Independence" and "Related Person Transactions" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Fees to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" and "Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Glossary of Defined Terms The following terms may be used throughout this report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Term Definition ACL Allowance for credit losses AFS Available-for-sale Agency MBS Mortgage-backed securities issued by a U.S. government agency or GSE ALLL Allowance for loan and lease losses ALM Asset/Liability management ARRC Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the FRB and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Basel III Rules Rules issued by the FRB, OCC, and FDIC on capital adequacy and liquidity requirements in the U.S for banking organizations. BB T BB T Corporation and subsidiaries (changed to Truist Financial Corporation effective with the Merger) BCBS Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BHC Bank holding company BHCA Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended BSA/AML Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Board Truist s Board of Directors C CB Corporate and Commercial Banking, an operating segment CARES Act The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CB W Consumer Banking and Wealth, an operating segment CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CD Certificate of deposit CDI Core deposit intangible CECL Current expected credit loss model CEO Chief Executive Officer CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFO Chief Financial Officer CET1 Common equity tier 1 CIB Corporate and Investment Banking CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CMO Collateralized mortgage obligation Company Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with Truist below), formerly BB T Corporation COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019 CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 CRE Commercial real estate CRO Chief Risk Officer CVA Credit valuation adjustment DC Disclosure Committee DEI Diversity, Equity Inclusion DIF Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DTA Deferred tax asset DTL Deferred tax liability EBPCC Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee ECRC Enterprise Credit Risk Committee EGRRCPA Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act ERC Enterprise Risk Committee ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 EPS Earnings per common share ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance ETF Exchange traded fund EVE Economic value of equity Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FHA Federal Housing Administration FHC Financial holding company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FHLMC Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FNMA Federal National Mortgage Association FRB Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FTE Full-time equivalent employee GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America GDP Gross Domestic Product GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act GNMA Government National Mortgage Association Grandbridge Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC GSE U.S. government-sponsored enterprise HFI Held for investment Truist Financial Corporation 1 Term Definition HMDA Home Mortgage Disclosure Act HQLA High-quality liquid assets HTM Held-to-maturity IDI Insured depository institution IH Insurance Holdings, an operating segment IPV Independent price verification IRC Internal Revenue Code IRS Internal Revenue Service ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LHFS Loans held for sale LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LOCOM Lower of cost or market Market Risk Rule Market risk capital requirements issued jointly by the OCC, U.S. Treasury, FRB, and FDIC MBS Mortgage-backed securities MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Merger Merger of BB T and SunTrust effective December 6, 2019 MRLCC Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital Committee MRM Model Risk Management MSR Mortgage servicing right MSRB Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board NA Not applicable NCCOB North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks NFA National Futures Association NIM Net interest margin, computed on a TE basis NM Not meaningful NPA Nonperforming asset NPL Nonperforming loan NSFR Net stable funding ratio NYSE New York Stock Exchange OAS Option adjusted spread OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other comprehensive income (loss) OFAC U.S. Department of the Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control OPEB Other post-employment benefit OREO Other real estate owned OT C Other, Treasury and Corporate OTC Over-the-counter OTTI Other than temporary impairment Parent Company Truist Financial Corporation, the parent company of Truist Bank and other subsidiaries Patriot Act Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 PCD Purchased credit deteriorated loans PCI Purchased credit impaired loans PPP Paycheck Protection Program, established by the CARES Act PSU Performance share units Re-REMICs Re-securitizations of Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits RMO Risk Management Organization ROU assets Right-of-use assets RSA Restricted stock award RSU Restricted stock unit RUFC Reserve for unfunded lending commitments S P Standard Poor s SBIC Small Business Investment Company SCB Stress Capital Buffer SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SunTrust SunTrust Banks, Inc. Tailoring Rules The final rules changing the applicability thresholds for regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, issued by the OCC, FRB, and FDIC, together with the final rules changing the applicability thresholds for enhanced prudential standards issued by the FRB TDR Troubled debt restructuring TE Taxable-equivalent TMC Technology Management Committee TRS Total Return Swap Truist Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with the Company above), formerly BB T Corporation Truist Bank Truist Bank, formerly Branch Banking and Trust Company U.S. United States of America U.S. Treasury United States Department of the Treasury UPB Unpaid principal balance UTB Unrecognized tax benefit VaR Value-at-risk VIE Variable interest entity 2 Truist Financial Corporation Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, regarding the financial condition, results of operations, business plans and the future performance of Truist. Words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, may, will, should, would, could, and other similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts but instead represent management s expectations and assumptions regarding Truist s business, the economy, and other future conditions. Such statements involve inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. As such, Truist s actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements. While there can be no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed in Item 1A-Risk Factors: risks and uncertainties relating to the Merger of heritage BB T and heritage SunTrust, including the ability to successfully integrate the companies or to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger; expenses relating to the Merger and integration of heritage BB T and heritage SunTrust; deposit attrition, client loss or revenue loss following completed mergers or acquisitions may be greater than anticipated; the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the global economy and adversely impacted Truist s financial condition and results of operations, including through increased expenses, reduced fee income and net interest margin, decreased demand for certain types of loans, and increases in the allowance for credit losses; a resurgence of the pandemic, whether due to new variants of the coronavirus or other factors, could reintroduce or prolong these negative impacts and also adversely affect Truist s capital and liquidity position or cost of capital, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, cause an outflow of deposits, and impair goodwill or other assets; Truist is subject to credit risk by lending or committing to lend money, and may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type or location of the borrower or collateral; changes in the interest rate environment, including the replacement of LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark, which could adversely affect Truist s revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital, cash flows, and liquidity; inability to access short-term funding or liquidity, loss of client deposits or changes in Truist s credit ratings, which could increase the cost of funding or limit access to capital markets; risk management oversight functions may not identify or address risks adequately, and management may not be able to effectively manage credit risk; risks resulting from the extensive use of models in Truist s business, which may impact decisions made by management and regulators; failure to execute on strategic or operational plans, including the ability to successfully complete or integrate mergers and acquisitions; increased competition, including from (i) new or existing competitors that could have greater financial resources or be subject to different regulatory standards, and (ii) products and services offered by non-bank financial technology companies, may reduce Truist s client base, cause Truist to lower prices for its products and services in order to maintain market share or otherwise adversely impact Truist s businesses or results of operations; failure to maintain or enhance Truist s competitive position with respect to new products, services and technology, whether it fails to anticipate client expectations or because its technological developments fail to perform as desired or do not achieve market acceptance or regulatory approval or for other reasons, may cause Truist to lose market share or incur additional expense; negative public opinion, which could damage Truist s reputation; increased scrutiny regarding Truist s consumer sales practices, training practices, incentive compensation design, and governance; regulatory matters, litigation or other legal actions, which may result in, among other things, costs, fines, penalties, restrictions on Truist s business activities, reputational harm, negative publicity, or other adverse consequences; evolving legislative, accounting and regulatory standards, including with respect to capital and liquidity requirements, and results of regulatory examinations may adversely affect Truist s financial condition and results of operations; the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on profitability; accounting policies and processes require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain, including the potential write down to goodwill if there is an elongated period of decline in market value for Truist s stock and adverse economic conditions are sustained over a period of time; general economic or business conditions, either globally, nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, and instability in global geopolitical matters or volatility in financial markets could result in, among other things, slower deposit or asset growth, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit, insurance, or other services; risks related to originating and selling mortgages, including repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers related to representations and warranties on loans sold, which could result in an increase in the amount of losses for loan repurchases; risks relating to Truist s role as a loan servicer, including an increase in the scope or costs of the services Truist is required to perform, without any corresponding increase in servicing fees or a breach of Truist s obligations as servicer; Truist s success depends on hiring and retaining key teammates, and if these individuals leave or change roles without effective replacements, Truist s operations and integration activities could be adversely impacted, which could be exacerbated in the increased work-from-home environment caused by the COVID-19 pandemic as job markets may be less constrained by physical geography; fraud or misconduct by internal or external parties, which Truist may not be able to prevent, detect, or mitigate; security risks, including denial of service attacks, hacking, social engineering attacks targeting Truist s teammates and clients, malware intrusion, data corruption attempts, system breaches, cyber-attacks, identity theft, ransomware attacks, and physical security risks, such as natural disasters, environmental conditions, and intentional acts of destruction, could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect Truist s business or reputation or create significant legal or financial exposure; and widespread outages of operational, communication, or other systems, whether internal or provided by third parties, natural or other disasters (including acts of terrorism and pandemics), and the effects of climate change, including physical risks, such as more frequent and intense weather events, and risks related to the transition to a lower carbon economy, such as regulatory or technological changes or shifts in market dynamics or consumer preferences, could have an adverse effect on Truist s financial condition and results of operations, lead to material disruption of Truist s operations or the ability or willingness of clients to access Truist s products and services. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, Truist undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements. Truist Financial Corporation 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Truist Financial Corporation is a purpose-driven financial services company committed to inspiring and building better lives and communities. Formed by the historic merger of equals of BB T and SunTrust, Truist has leading market share in many high-growth markets in the country. The Company offers a wide range of services. Headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, Truist is a top 10 U.S. commercial bank. Truist Bank, Truist s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for clients through 2,517 offices as of December 31, 2021 and its digital platform. Services Truist s subsidiaries offer commercial and consumer clients a full array of products and services to meet their financial needs. The following table reflects examples of services provided by Truist: Table 1: Services Consumer Services: Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Credit card lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Consumer finance Commercial finance Home equity lending Commercial lending Home mortgage lending Floor plan lending Insurance Debt and equity derivative services Investment brokerage services Institutional trust services Mobile/online banking Insurance Payment solutions Insurance premium finance Point-of-sale lending International banking Retail deposit products Investment banking and capital markets services Small business lending Leasing Student lending Merchant services Wealth management/private banking Mortgage warehouse lending Payment solutions Real estate lending Supply chain financing Market Area The following table reflects Truist s deposit market share and branch locations by state: Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State % of Truist s Deposits (2) Deposit Market Share Rank (2) Number of Branches (3) Florida 22 % 3rd 572 Georgia 19 1st 288 Virginia 15 2nd 365 North Carolina (1) 14 1st 348 Maryland 6 3rd 208 Tennessee 5 5th 130 Pennsylvania 5 9th 157 South Carolina 4 3rd 112 Texas 2 18th 102 West Virginia 2 1st 48 Kentucky 2 4th 62 Washington, D.C. 2 5th 27 Alabama 1 6th 67 New Jersey 1 19th 23 Other states NA NA 8 (1) Deposit market share rank excludes home office deposits. (2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2021. (3) As of December 31, 2021. 4 Truist Financial Corporation Competition The financial services industry is intensely competitive and constantly evolving. Management believes that Truist s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop its digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are highly competitive in meeting clients' expectations. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes, as well as continued consolidation within the industry, could result in increased competition from new and existing market participants. Truist s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional, and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies, financial technology companies, and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has increased competition. Non-banking entities are not subject to the same regulatory framework as banks and BHCs, and therefore, can often operate with greater flexibility and lower costs. In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction because it affects the Company s ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Management believes that the Company is well positioned to compete and that its continued focus on touch and technology will engender trust among its current and future clients. General Business Development Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients' financial needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist s long-term strategy encompasses both organic and inorganic growth, including mergers or acquisitions of complementary financial institutions or other businesses. Merger and Acquisition Strategy Truist s merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: the organization must be a good fit with Truist s culture; the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive; associated risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place, such that any residual risks fall within Truist s risk appetite; and the transaction must meet Truist s financial criteria. Truist s growth in business, profitability, and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Truist will assess future opportunities, based on geography and market conditions, and may, among other possibilities, pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of banks, insurance agencies, certain lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. Regulatory Considerations The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Truist and its subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including technological factors, market changes, climate, as well as increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal bank regulators. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Truist is subject. These descriptions do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. Truist Financial Corporation 5 General As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to regulation, examination, and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the NCCOB and the FDIC. Truist Bank and its affiliates are also subject to examination by the CFPB for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws. Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory, and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, and the NYSE. Truist Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, that govern its activities, the investments it makes, and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Examinations by Truist s regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management, and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. Following those examinations, Truist and Truist Bank are assigned supervisory ratings. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings, which are considered confidential supervisory information, could materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of Truist s operations. Under the FRB's Large Financial Institution Rating System, component ratings are assigned for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. To be considered "well managed" under this rating system, a firm must be rated "broadly meets expectations" or "conditionally meets expectations" for each of its three component ratings. The results of examinations by any of Truist s federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist s activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad enforcement authority and discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. FHC Regulation Truist has elected to be treated as a FHC, which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC, including activities that are financial in nature or incidental thereto, such as securities underwriting or merchant banking. While FHCs may engage in certain acquisitions without p