Item 1 Business 2 Item 1A Risk Factors 8 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1C Cybersecurity 15 Item 2 Properties 18 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6 Reserved 21 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 65 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 65 Item 9B Other Information 65 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 66 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 67 Item 11 Executive Compensation 67 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 67 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 67 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 67 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 68 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 71 SIGNATURES 72 TARGET CORPORATION 2023 Form 10-K 1 BUSINESS Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART I Item 1. Business General Target Corporation (Target, the Corporation, or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. Our corporate purpose is to help all families discover the joy of everyday life. We offer to our customers, referred to as "guests," everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated merchandise at discounted prices. We operate as a single segment designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly in stores or through our digital channels. Since 1946, we have given 5 percent of our profit to communities. Strategy Target delivers on our purpose of helping all families discover the joy of everyday life through our curated, multi-category assortment, outstanding value, and a team that s centered on care for each other, our guests, and communities. Our stores, digital experience, fulfillment services, and loyalty ecosystem also play a critical role in differentiating Target and bringing our purpose to life. Our strategy aims to expand Target s relevancy in consumers lives and drive traffic, sales , and market share growth. Core elements include: Delighting with newness, style, and value by strengthening our owned brands portfolio, curating leading national brands, and expanding the breadth and depth of signature partnerships. Delivering value by providing everyday low pricing and leveraging promotions and our loyalty ecosystem, Target Circle. Opening new stores, updating existing stores , and enhancing our digital experience to reach more consumers and provide a reliably convenient, easy , and inspiring shopping experience. Transforming our supply chain for increased efficiency, speed, capacity, and reliability across our network. Being a favorite discovery destination by making it easy for consumers to discover Target s products and experiences across different channels and touchpoints, including our stores, our mobile app and website, and social platforms. Expanding our capabilities, such as our Roundel advertising business, to leverage our assets and enhance the guest experience. Our strategy defines how we ll continue to differentiate Target, and we ll seek to enable growth through: Our Team A highly engaged, diverse, purpose-driven, and community-oriented team . Consumer-Centricity A deep understanding of consumers . Technology A connected ecosystem of data, insights, and technology, including artificial intelligence . Efficiency Simplify work for our teams to make it easier to deliver a great guest experience. Sustainability Resiliency in our business model through our Target Forward strategy. Our strategy continues to leverage stores as fulfillment hubs, with stores fulfilling more than 96 percent of total sales, which provides convenience for our guests at a reduced fulfillment cost. TARGET CORPORATION 2023 Form 10-K 2 BUSINESS Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements (a) 2023 consisted of 53 weeks. The extra week in 2023 contributed $1.7 billion of sales. Sales by Fulfillment Channel TARGET CORPORATION 2023 Form 10-K 3 BUSINESS Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Financial Highlights For information on key financial highlights, see Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A). Seasonality A larger share of annual revenues traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter because it includes the November and December holiday sales period. Merchandise The majority of our stores offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and food. Most of our stores larger than 170,000 square feet offer a variety of general merchandise and a full line of food items comparable to traditional supermarkets. Our digital channels include a wide merchandise and food assortment, including many items found in our stores, along with a complementary assortment sold by Target and third parties. We manage our business across the five core merchandise categories shown below. Within categories, gross margins vary depending on the type of merchandise. Sales by Merchandise Category TARGET CORPORATION 2023 Form 10-K 4 BUSINESS Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A significant portion of our sales is from national brand merchandise. Approximately one-third of our sales come from our owned and exclusive brands, including, but not limited to, the brands listed below. Owned Brands A New Day Future Collective Original Use All in Motion Gigglescape Pillowfort Art Class Good Gather Project 62 Auden Goodfellow Co Room Essentials Ava Viv Hearth Hand with Magnolia Shade Shore Boots Barkley Heyday Smartly Brightroom Hyde EEK! Boutique Smith Hawken Bullseye's Playground JoyLab Sonia Kashuk Casaluna Kindfull Spritz Cat Jack Knox Rose Stars Above Cloud Island Kona Sol Sun Squad Colsie Made By Design Threshold dealworthy Market Pantry Universal Thread Embark Mondo Llama up up Everspring More Than Magic Wild Fable Favorite Day Opalhouse Wondershop Figmint Open Story Xhilaration Exclusive Adult Beverage Brands California Roots Jingle Mingle SunPop Casa Cantina Photograph The Collection Headliner Ros Bae Wine Cube We also sell merchandise through periodic exclusive design and creative partnerships, and shop-in-shop experiences, with partners such as Apple, Disney, Levi's, and Ulta Beauty, and generate revenue from in-store amenities such as Starbucks, Target Caf , and Target Optical. CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (CVS) operates pharmacies and clinics in our stores under a perpetual operating agreement from which we generate annual occupancy income. Customer Loyalty Programs Our guests receive a 5 percent discount on nearly all purchases and receive free shipping at Target.com when they use their Target Debit Card, Target Credit Card, Target MasterCard , or RedCard Reloadable Account (collectively, RedCards ). We also seek to drive customer loyalty and trip frequency through our Target Circle program which offers guests instant discounts and Target Circle Rewards redeemable on future purchases. In March 2024, we announced changes to Target Circle, including the integration of Target Circle Card (formerly RedCard) and the addition of a Target Circle 360 paid membership option. Among other benefits, Target Circle 360 members receive access to same-day delivery and our fastest available shipping option with no additional markup or fees. Distribution Most merchandise is distributed to our stores through our network of distribution centers. Common carriers ship merchandise to and from our distribution centers. Vendors or third-party distributors ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores. Merchandise sold through our digital channels is distributed to our guests through guest pick-up at our stores, via common carriers (from stores, supply chain facilities, vendors, and third-party distributors), and same-day delivery via our wholly owned subsidiary, Shipt, Inc. (Shipt). Our stores fulfill the majority of the digitally originated sales, which allows improved product availability, faster fulfillment times, reduced shipping costs, and allows us to offer guests a suite of same-day fulfillment options such as Order Pickup, Drive Up, and Shipt. TARGET CORPORATION 2023 Form 10-K 5 BUSINESS Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Human Capital Management In support of our purpose to help all families discover the joy of everyday life we invest in our team, our most important asset, by giving them opportunities to grow professionally, take care of themselves, each other, and their families, and to make a difference for our guests and our communities. We are among the largest private employers in the United States (U.S.), and our workforce has varying goals and expectations of their employment relationship, from team members looking to build a career to students, retirees, and others who are seeking to supplement their income in an enjoyable atmosphere. We seek to be an employer of choice to attract and retain top talent no matter their objectives in seeking employment. To that end, we strive to foster an engaged, diverse, inclusive, safe, purpose-driven culture where employees, referred to as "team members," have equitable opportunities for success. As of February 3, 2024, we employed approximately 415,000 full-time, part-time, and seasonal team members. Because of the seasonal nature of the retail business, employment levels peak in the holiday season. We also engage independent contractors, most notably in our Shipt subsidiary. Our Board of Directors, through the Compensation and Human Capital Management Committee, oversees human capital management matters. Talent Development and Engagement We offer a compelling work environment with meaningful experiences and abundant growth and career-development opportunities. This starts with the opportunity to do challenging work and learn on the job and is supplemented by programs and continuous learning that help our team build skills at all levels, including programs focused on specialized skill development, leadership opportunities, coaching, and mentoring. Our talent and succession planning process supports the development of a diverse talent pipeline for leadership and other critical roles. We monitor our team members perceptions of these commitments through a number of surveys and take steps to address areas needing improvement. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE I) We champion workplace inclusion, belonging and diversity with a focus on engaging, developing, advancing and attracting team members equitably in support of our business. We disclose the composition of our team in our annual Workforce Diversity Report and EEO-1 report. We set company-wide DE I goals to drive our business, and learn and grow as an organization. Compensation and Benefits Our compensation and benefits are designed to support the financial, mental, and physical well-being of our team members and their families. We believe in paying team members equitably, regardless of gender, race, or ethnicity, and we regularly review the pay data of U.S. team members to confirm that we are doing so. Our compensation packages include a starting wage range of $15 to $24 per hour for U.S. hourly team members in our stores and supply chain facilities (who comprise the vast majority of our team), a 401(k) plan with dollar-for-dollar matching contributions up to five percent of eligible earnings, paid vacation and holidays, family leave, sick pay, merchandise and other discounts, disability insurance, life insurance, healthcare and dependent care flexible spending accounts, tuition-free education assistance and tuition reimbursement, free mental health services, an annual short-term incentive program, long-term equity awards, and health insurance benefits, including free virtual health care visits. Eligibility for, and the level of, benefits vary depending on team members full-time or part-time status, work location, compensation level, and tenure. Workplace Health and Safety We strive to maintain a safe and secure work environment and have specific safety programs. This includes administering a comprehensive occupational injury- and illness-prevention program and training for team members. TARGET CORPORATION 2023 Form 10-K 6 BUSINESS Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Working Capital Effective inventory management is key to our ongoing success, and we use various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We achieve effective inventory management by staying in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and apparel items to minimize markdowns. The Business Environment and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections in MD A provide additional details. Competition We compete with traditional and internet retailers, including department stores, off-price general merchandise retailers, wholesale clubs, category-specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets, direct-to-consumer brands, and other forms of retail commerce. Our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers and provide compelling value to our guests largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. Intellectual Property Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, our "Expect More. Pay Less." brand promise, and our "Bullseye Design," ha ve been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain and preserve intellectual property protection for our brands. Geographic Information Nearly all of our revenues are generated within the U.S. The vast majority of our property and equipment is located within the U.S. Available Information Our internet website is corporate.target.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available free of charge on the Investors section of our website (corporate.target.com/investors) as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, the SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts, or our corporate website (corporate.target.com). Information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. TARGET CORPORATION 2023 Form 10-K 7 BUSINESS RISK FACTORS Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Information About Our Executive Officers Executive officers are elected by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships between any of the officers named and any other executive officer or member of the Board of Directors, or any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. Name Title and Recent Business Experience Age Brian C. Cornell Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since August 2014. 65 Michael J. Fiddelke Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since February 2024 and Chief Financial Officer since November 2019. Senior Vice President, Operations from August 2018 to October 2019. Senior Vice President, Merchandising Capabilities from March 2017 to August 2018. 47 A. Christina Hennington Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer since February 2021. Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Hardlines, Essentials and Capabilities from January 2020 to February 2021. Senior Vice President, Group Merchandise Manager, Essentials, Beauty, Hardlines and Services from January 2019 to January 2020. Senior Vice President, Merchandising Essentials, Beauty and Wellness from April 2017 to January 2019. 49 Melissa K. Kremer Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since January 2019. Senior Vice President, Talent and Organizational Effectiveness from October 2017 to January 2019. 46 Don H. Liu Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary since October 2023. Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Risk Officer and Corporate Secretary from October 2017 to October 2023. 62 Cara A. Sylvester Executive Vice President and Chief Guest Experience Officer since May 2022. Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Digital Officer from February 2021 to May 2022. Senior Vice President, Home from March 2019 to February 2021. Vice President, Beauty Dermstore from June 2017 to March 2019. 46 Matthew L. Zabel Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer since October 2023. Executive Vice President and General Counsel from May 2022 to October 2023. Senior Vice President, Risk and Employee Labor Relations from August 2020 to May 2022. Senior Vice President, Enterprise Risk from September 2017 to August 2020. 55 Note: As previously disclosed, Mr. Liu intends to retire as Target's Chief Legal Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary in 2024. Mr. Liu intends to remain in his current role until a successor is appointed, and is expected to serve as a strategic advisor for a transition period following such appointment. In addition, as previously disclosed, in connection with the appointment of Mr. Fiddelke to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Fiddelke will remain Chief Financial Officer until a successor is appointed to that role.