ITEM 1. Business 5 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 11 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 23 ITEM 2. Properties 24 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 27 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 ITEM 6. Reserved 27 ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 28 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 40 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 40 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 40 ITEM 9B. Other Information 41 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 41 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 41 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 42 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 42 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 42 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 42 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 45 SIGNATURES 46 4 PART I ITEM 1. Business BUSINESS OVERVIEW The TJX Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, TJX, the Company, we, or our ) is the leading off-price apparel and home fashions retailer in the United States and worldwide. We have over 4,900 stores and six branded e-commerce sites that offer a rapidly changing assortment of quality, fashionable, brand name and designer merchandise at prices generally 20% to 60% below full-price retailers (including department, specialty, and major online retailers) regular prices on comparable merchandise, every day. Our mission is to deliver great value to our customers every day. In our stores and online, we offer consumers our value proposition of brand, fashion, price and quality. Our opportunistic buying strategies and flexible business model differentiate us from traditional retailers. We offer a treasure hunt shopping experience and a rapid turn of inventories relative to traditional retailers. Our goal is to create a sense of excitement and urgency for our customers and encourage frequent customer visits. We acquire merchandise in a variety of ways to support that goal. We reach a broad range of customers across income levels with our value proposition on a wide range of items. Our strategies and operations are synergistic across our retail chains. As a result, we are able to leverage our expertise throughout our business, sharing information, best practices, initiatives and new ideas, and to develop talent across our company. Further, we can leverage the substantial buying power of our businesses with our global vendor relationships. In this report, fiscal 2024 means the 53-week fiscal year ended February 3, 2024; fiscal 2023 means the 52-week fiscal year ended January 28, 2023 and fiscal 2022 means the 52-week fiscal year ended January 29, 2022. Fiscal 2025 means the 52-week fiscal year ending February 1, 2025. Unless otherwise indicated, all store information in this Item 1 is as of February 3, 2024, and references to store square footage are to gross square feet. Our Businesses We operate our business in four main segments: Marmaxx and HomeGoods, both in the U.S., TJX Canada and TJX International, including Europe and Australia. In addition to our four main segments, we operate the Sierra business. The results of Sierra are included with the Marmaxx segment. MARMAXX Our TJ Maxx and Marshalls chains in the United States ( Marmaxx ) are collectively the largest off-price retailer in the United States with a total of 2,516 stores. We founded TJ Maxx in 1976 and acquired Marshalls in 1995. Both chains sell family apparel (including footwear and accessories), home fashions (including home basics, decorative accessories and giftware) and other merchandise. We primarily differentiate TJ Maxx and Marshalls through different product assortment, including an expanded assortment of jewelry and accessories and a high-end designer department called The Runway at TJ Maxx and a full line of footwear and a broader men s offering at Marshalls, as well as varying in-store initiatives. This differentiated shopping experience at TJ Maxx and Marshalls encourages our customers to shop both chains. Marmaxx currently operates two e-commerce sites, tjmaxx.com, launched in 2013 and marshalls.com, launched in 2019. Sierra, acquired in 2012 and rebranded from Sierra Trading Post in 2018, is a leading off-price retailer of brand name active and outdoor apparel, footwear, and gear (including sporting goods, snow and water sport, camping, fishing) for the whole family, as well as home fashions and pet. Sierra operates 95 retail stores in the U.S. and sierra.com. HOMEGOODS Our HomeGoods segment operates HomeGoods and Homesense chains. HomeGoods, introduced in 1992, is the leading off-price retailer of home fashions in the U.S. Through its 919 stores, HomeGoods offers an eclectic assortment of home fashions, including furniture, rugs, lighting, soft home, decorative accessories, tabletop and cookware, as well as expanded pet and gourmet food departments. In 2017, we launched our Homesense chain in the U.S. Our 55 Homesense stores complement HomeGoods, offering a differentiated mix and expanded departments, such as large furniture, ceiling lighting, rugs, and an entertainment marketplace. 5 TJX CANADA Our TJX Canada segment operates the Winners, HomeSense and Marshalls chains in Canada. Winners, acquired by TJX in 1990, operates 302 stores and is the leading off-price family apparel and home fashions retailer in Canada. HomeSense introduced the off-price home fashions concept to Canada in 2001. This chain operates 158 stores and offers an array of home decor, furniture, and seasonal home merchandise. Marshalls, launched in Canada in 2011, operates 106 stores and offers off-price apparel, footwear, and home fashions. TJX INTERNATIONAL Our TJX International segment operates the TK Maxx and Homesense chains in Europe and the TK Maxx chain in Australia. Launched in 1994, TK Maxx introduced off-price retail to Europe and remains Europe s largest major brick-and-mortar off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions. With 644 stores in Europe, TK Maxx operates in the U.K., Ireland, Germany, Poland, Austria and the Netherlands. Through its stores and its e-commerce sites, tkmaxx.com, launched in 2009 and tkmaxx.de and tkmaxx.at, both launched in 2023, TK Maxx offers a merchandise mix similar to TJ Maxx. We brought the off-price home fashions concept to Europe, opening Homesense in the U.K. in 2008 and in Ireland in 2017. Its 79 stores offer a merchandise mix of home fashions similar to that of HomeGoods in the U.S. and HomeSense in Canada. We acquired Trade Secret in Australia in 2015 and re-branded it under the TK Maxx name during 2017. The merchandise offering at TK Maxx in Australia's 80 stores is comparable to TJ Maxx. Flexible Business Model Our flexible business model, including our opportunistic buying, inventory management, logistics and flexible store layouts, is designed to deliver to our customers a compelling value proposition of fashionable, quality, brand name and designer merchandise at excellent values every day. Our buying and inventory management strategies give us flexibility to adjust our merchandise assortments more frequently than traditional retailers, and the design and operation of our stores and distribution centers support this flexibility. Our buyers have more visibility into consumer, fashion and market trends and pricing when we buy closer to need, which can help us buy better and reduce our markdown exposure. Our selling floor space is flexible, without walls between departments and largely free of permanent fixtures, so we can easily expand and contract departments to accommodate the merchandise we purchase. Our logistics and distribution operations are designed to support our global buying strategies and to facilitate quick, efficient and differentiated delivery of merchandise to our stores, with a goal of delivering the right merchandise to the right stores at the right time. Opportunistic Buying As an off-price retailer, our buying practices, which we refer to as opportunistic buying, differentiate us from traditional retailers. Our overall global buying strategy is to acquire merchandise on an ongoing basis that will enable us to offer a desirable and rapidly changing mix of branded, designer and other quality merchandise in our stores at prices below regular prices for comparable merchandise at full-price retailers, including department, specialty, and major online retailers. We seek out and select merchandise from the broad range of opportunities in the market to achieve this end. Our global buying organization, which numbers over 1,300 Associates and has offices across 4 continents in 12 countries, executes this opportunistic buying strategy, buying merchandise from more than 100 countries in a variety of ways, depending on market conditions and other factors. We take advantage of opportunities to acquire merchandise at substantial discounts that regularly arise from the production and flow of inventory in the apparel and home fashions marketplace. These opportunities include, among others, closeouts from brands, manufacturers and other retailers; special production direct from brands and factories; order cancellations and manufacturer overruns. Our global buying strategies are intentionally flexible to allow us to react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market and to adjust how and what we source as well as when we source it. Our goal is to operate with lean inventory levels compared to conventional retailers to give us the flexibility to seek out and to take advantage of these opportunities as they arise, close to the time the merchandise is needed in our stores and online and when we have more visibility into fashion trends and price. In contrast to traditional retailers, which tend to order most of their goods far in advance of the time the product appears on the selling floor, our merchants generally remain in the marketplace for goods throughout the year, frequently looking for opportunities to buy merchandise. We buy much of our merchandise for the current or immediately upcoming selling season. We also buy some merchandise that is available in the market with the intention of storing it for sale, typically in future selling seasons. We generally make these purchases, referred to as packaway, in response to opportunities to buy merchandise that we believe has the right combination of brand, fashion, price and quality to supplement the product we expect to be available to purchase later for those future seasons. We also acquire some merchandise that we offer under in-house brands or brands that are licensed to us. We develop some of this merchandise ourselves, which allows us to supplement the depth of, or fill gaps in, our expected merchandise assortment. 6 Manufacturers, retailers and other vendors made up our expansive and changing universe of more than 21,000 vendors across the globe, including thousands of new vendors in 2023, which provides us substantial and diversified access to merchandise. We have not experienced difficulty in obtaining sufficient quality merchandise for our business in either favorable or difficult retail environments and expect this will continue should we meet or exceed our plans for growth. We believe a number of factors provide us excellent access on an ongoing basis to leading branded merchandise and make us an attractive channel for many vendors in the market. We are typically willing to purchase less-than-full assortments of items, styles and sizes as well as quantities ranging from small to very large; we are able to disperse merchandise across our geographically diverse network of store s and to target specific markets; we pay promptly according to our payment terms; our practice is to not ask for typical retail concessions (such as advertising, promotional and markdown allowances), delivery concessions (such as drop shipments to stores or delayed deliveries) or return privileges; and we have an excellent credit rating. Inventory Management We offer our customers a rapidly changing selection of merchandise to create a treasure hunt experience in our stores and to encourage frequent customer visits. To achieve this, we seek to turn the inventory in our stores rapidly, regularly offering fresh selections of apparel and home fashions at excellent values. Our specialized inventory planning, purchasing, monitoring and markdown systems, coupled with distribution center storage, processing, handling and shipping systems, enable us to tailor the merchandise in our stores to local preferences and demographics, achieve rapid in-store inventory turnover on a vast array of products and generally sell through most merchandise within the period we planned. We make pricing and markdown decisions and store inventory replenishment determinations centrally, using information provided by specialized computer systems designed to move inventory through our stores in a timely and disciplined manner. We invest in our supply chain with the goal of continuing to operate with low inventory levels, to ship more efficiently and quickly, and to more precisely and effectively allocate merchandise to each store. Pricing Our mission is to deliver great value to our customers every day. We do this by offering quality, fashionable, brand name and designer merchandise in our stores with retail prices that are generally 20% to 60% below full-price retailers (including department, specialty, and major online retailers) regular prices on comparable merchandise, every day. Our practice is to not engage in promotional pricing activity such as sales or coupons. We have generally been able to react to price fluctuations in the wholesale market to maintain our pricing gap relative to prices offered by traditional retailers as well as our merchandise margins through various economic cycles. Low Cost Operations We operate with a low cost structure compared to many traditional retailers with a prudent focus on expenses throughout our business. Our advertising is generally focused on promoting our retail banners rather than individual products, including at times promoting multiple banners together, which contributes to our advertising budget (as a percentage of sales) remaining low compared to many traditional retailers. We design our stores to provide a pleasant, convenient shopping environment without spending heavily on store fixtures. Additionally, our distribution network is designed to run cost effectively. Customer Service/Shopping Experience We strategically renovate and upgrade our stores across our retail banners to enhance our customers shopping experience and help drive sales. We train our store Associates to provide friendly and helpful customer service and seek to staff our stores to deliver a positive shopping experience. We believe we offer return policies that are customer-friendly. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, credit cards and debit cards. We also offer TJX-branded credit cards in the U.S. through a bank, but do not own the customer receivables. Distribution We operate distribution centers encompassing approximately 31 million square feet in six countries . These centers are generally large, and built to suit our specific, off-price business model, with a combination of automated systems and manual processes to manage the variety of merchandise we acquire. We ship substantially all of our merchandise to our stores through a network of distribution centers, fulfillment centers and warehouses as well as shipping centers operated in many cases by third parties. 7 Store Growth Expansion of our business through the addition of new stores continues to be an important part of our global growth strategy. The following table provides store growth information for our four major segments for the two most recently completed fiscal years, as well as our estimates of the long-term store growth potential of these segments in their current geographies: Approximate Average Store Size (square feet) Number of Stores at Year-End Estimated Store Potential Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2024 Marmaxx: TJ Maxx 27,000 1,299 1,319 Marshalls 28,000 1,183 1,197 Total Marmaxx 2,482 2,516 3,000 HomeGoods: HomeGoods 23,000 894 919 Homesense 27,000 46 55 Total HomeGoods 940 974 1,500 TJX Canada: Winners 27,000 297 302 HomeSense 23,000 151 158 Marshalls 26,000 106 106 Total TJX Canada 554 566 650 TJX International: TK Maxx (Europe) 28,000 629 644 Homesense (Europe) 19,000 78 79 TK Maxx (Australia) 21,000 74 80 Total TJX International 781 803 1,125 (a) TJX Total (b) 4,835 4,954 6,275 (a) Reflects store growth potential for TK Maxx in current geographies and for Homesense in the United Kingdom and Ireland. (b) Includes 78 Sierra stores in fiscal 2023 and 95 Sierra stores for fiscal 2024. Sierra stores are not included in estimated store potential. Some of our home fashion stores are co-located with one of our apparel stores in a combo or superstore format. We count each of the stores in the combo or superstore format as a separate store. Competition The retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. We compete on numerous factors including brand, fashion, price, quality, selection and freshness; in-store and online shopping experience and service; reputation and store location. We compete with local, regional, national and international department, specialty, off-price, discount, warehouse and outlet stores as well as other retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell, whether in stores, online, or through other media or channels. Human Capital As of February 3, 2024, we had approximately 349,000 employees (who we refer to as Associates), many of whom worked less than 40 hours per week. Approximately 85% of these Associates worked in our retail stores. We hire thousands of temporary employees each year, particularly during the peak back-to-school and holiday seasons. We offer positions at a variety of levels in our stores, distribution and fulfillment centers, and offices, as well as many opportunities for Associates to grow and advance. Many Associates in our distribution centers in the United States and Canada are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other Associates are members of works councils in Europe. Our large, global workforce supports the execution of our flexible business model, including the timing and frequency of store deliveries and the management of a rapidly changing mix of merchandise in over 4,900 retail stores in nine countries and across six e-commerce sites. We believe our Associates are key to our business success. 8 Workplace and Culture We work to foster a strong, supportive, and inclusive culture so that Associates at TJX feel welcome in the Company, valued for their contributions, and engaged with our business mission. We use defined cultural factors and leadership competencies throughout our global business to express our organizational values, such as personal integrity, relationship-building and collaboration, and respect for our business model, and to promote consistency in leadership development. We use leadership competency and cultural factors focused on inclusion-based values and behaviors in our Leadership Development Toolkit. We believe our policies and practices, including our open-door philosophy, encourage open and honest communication and Associate engagement with the business. Inclusion and Diversity ( I D ) Our global workforce reflects a diversity of races, ethnicities, sexual orientations, gender identities, abilities, experiences, religions, and much more, and we are committed to continuing to build and support an inclusive and diverse workplace. Our global strategies include increasing the representation of diverse talent through our talent pipeline; providing leaders with tools to support difference with awareness, fairness, sensitivity, and transparency; and integrating inclusive behaviors, language and practices throughout the business. Over the past two years, with the benefit of information gathered from a global inclusion and diversity survey of our Associates, our teams globally have developed and launched many new programs, including recruitment strategies, training and education, Associate-led I D advisory boards, and additional Associate Resource Groups. Training and Career Development Our culture prioritizes Associate development and advancement within our organization and we have many Associates in managerial positions who have been with the Company for more than 10 years. We are highly focused on teaching and mentoring to support the career growth and success of our Associates, and we believe these efforts have promoted retention, stability, and increased expertise in our workforce. Training happens broadly throughout the organization, from informal mentoring and direct training to a range of career and leadership development programs, such as our TJX University for merchandising Associates. Compensation and Rewards Our compensation programs are designed to pay our Associates competitively in the market and equitably, based on their skills, qualifications, role and abilities. Our approach to compensation across the organization reflects our global total rewards principles, which include encouraging teamwork and collaboration, being fair and equitable, and sharing in the success of the Company. For fiscal 2024, we continued our One TJX approach to annual incentive compensation, with all eligible Associates measured against global TJX performance goals. Trademarks We have the right to use our principal trademarks and service marks, which are TJ Maxx, Marshalls, HomeGoods, Winners, Homesense/HomeSense, TK Maxx and Sierra, in relevant countries. We expect our rights in these trademarks and service marks to endure in locations where we use them for as long as we continue to do so. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal influences. In the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons, we generally realize higher levels of sales and income. SEC Filings and Certifications Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, proxy statements, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with or furnished to the SEC, and any amendments to those documents, are available free of charge on our website, tjx.com, under SEC Filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. They are also available free of charge from TJX Global Communications, 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham, Massachusetts 01701. The SEC maintains a website containing all reports, proxies, information statements, and all other information ( www.sec.gov ). Information appearing on tjx.com is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this Form 10-K. 9 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following are the executive officers of TJX as of April 3, 2024: Name Age Office and Business Experience Kenneth Canestrari 62 Senior Executive Vice President, Group President since September 2014. President, HomeGoods from 2012 to September 2014. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, HomeGoods from 2008 until 2012. Various financial positions with TJX from 1988 to 2008. Louise Greenlees 61 Senior Executive Vice President, Group President since June 2022. President, TJX Europe from January 2015 to June 2022. Managing Director, TJX Europe from January 2014 to January 2015. Group Buying Director, TJX Europe from April 2013 to January 2014. Homesense Managing Director, from December 2010 to April 2013. Ernie Herrman 63 Chief Executive Officer since January 2016. Director since October 2015. President since January 2011. Senior Executive Vice President, Group President from August 2008 to January 2011. President, Marmaxx from 2005 to 2008. Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Marmaxx from 2004 to 2005. Executive Vice President, Merchandising, Marmaxx from 2001 to 2004. Various merchandising positions with TJX since joining in 1989. John Klinger 59 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2024. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2023 to February 2024. Executive Vice President, Corporate Controller from 2019 to January 2023. Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller from 2015 to 2019. Senior Vice President, Divisional Chief Financial Officer, TJX Europe from 2011 to 2015. Vice President, Corporate Finance from 2011 to 2011. Vice President, Divisional Chief Financial Officer for AJWright from 2007 to 2011. Various financial positions with TJX since joining in 2000. Carol Meyrowitz 70 Executive Chairman of the Board since January 2016. Chairman of the Board from June 2015 to January 2016. Chief Executive Officer from January 2007 to January 2016. Director since 2006 and President from October 2005 to January 2011. Consultant to TJX from January 2005 to October 2005. Senior Executive Vice President from March 2004 to January 2005. President, Marmaxx from 2001 to January 2005. Executive Vice President of TJX from 2001 to 2004. Various senior management and merchandising positions with Marmaxx and with Chadwick s of Boston and Hit or Miss, former divisions of TJX, from 1983 to 2001. Douglas Mizzi 64 Senior Executive Vice President, Group President since February 2018. President, TJX Canada from October 2011 to February 2018. Managing Director TK Maxx, UK from April 2010 to October 2011. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, WMI from February 2006 to April 2010. Senior Vice President, Director of Store Operations, WMI from 2004 to 2006. Various store operations positions with TJX from 1988 to 2004. The executive officers hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board in June 2024 and until their successors are elected and qualified. 10