Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 2. Properties 41 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 41 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 41 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6. [Reserved] 43 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 58 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 59 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 59 Item 11. Executive Compensation 63 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 85 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 87 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 94 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Signatures 98 2 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEME NTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (the Annual Report ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). All statements other than statements of present and historical fact contained in this Annual Report, including without limitation, statements regarding the anticipated benefits of and costs associated with the Transactions (as defined below); our expectations surrounding the Transactions and our ability to grow our business and bolster our financial position; our expected contractual obligations and capital expenditures; our future results of operations and financial position; industry and business trends; the impact of market conditions and other macroeconomic factors on our business, financial condition and results of operations; our future business strategy, plans, market growth and our objectives for future operations; and our competitive market position within our industry are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, you can generally identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms aim, "anticipate," "believe," "could," mission, "may," "will," "should," "expect," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "project," "predict," "potential," target, "contemplate," or, in each case, their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology and expressions. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are only predictions and are based on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to: difficulties with the integration and in realizing the expected benefits of the Transactions, including the business combination; the unfavorable outcome of legal proceedings that may be instituted against TKO Group Holdings, UFC, WWE and their affiliates in connection with the Transactions, including the business combination; the inability to capture all or part of the anticipated cost and revenue synergies; potential liabilities that are not known, probable or estimable at this time; the inability to maintain the listing of our Class A common stock on the NYSE; the risk of adverse tax consequences of the Merger and the Conversion; the inability to retain WWE or UFC management, employees and/or talent; the impact of future domestic and international industry trends on our business and our future growth, business strategy and objectives for future operations; the inability to renew or replace our distribution rights agreements on equal or more favorable terms; the possibility we may be adversely affected by other economic, business and/or competitive factors; and other important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those described in: this Annual Report in Part I, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part I,