Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 34 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 34 Item 9B. Other Information 34 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 35 Item 11. Executive Compensation 35 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 35 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 35 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 35 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 35 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 35 2 THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. PART I Item 1. Business General Development of Business Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (also referred to in this document as Thermo Fisher, we, the company, or the registrant ) is the world leader in serving science. Our Mission is to enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer. We serve more than 400,000 customers working in pharmaceutical and biotech companies, hospitals and clinical diagnostic labs, universities, research institutions and government agencies, as well as environmental, industrial quality and process control settings. Our global team of more than 75,000 colleagues delivers a unique combination of innovative technologies, purchasing convenience and pharmaceutical services through our industry-leading brands, including Thermo Scientific, Applied Biosystems, Invitrogen, Fisher Scientific, Unity Lab Services and Patheon. We continuously increase our depth of capabilities in technologies, software and services, and leverage our extensive global channels to address our customers emerging needs. We do this through organic investments in research and development and through acquisitions. For example, in April 2019, we acquired, within the Laboratory Products and Services segment, Brammer Bio, expanding our contract manufacturing capabilities to include a full-range of viral vector development and manufacturing services. Our goal is to make our customers more productive in an increasingly competitive business environment, and to allow them to solve their challenges, from complex research to improved patient care, environmental and process monitoring, and consumer safety. Thermo Fisher is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956. The company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1980. Forward-looking Statements Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), are made throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements regarding: projections of revenue, expenses, earnings, margins, tax rates, tax provisions, cash flows, pension and benefit obligations and funding requirements, our liquidity position; cost reductions, restructuring activities, new product and service developments, competitive strengths or market position, acquisitions or divestitures; growth, declines and other trends in markets we sell into; new or modified laws, regulations and accounting pronouncements; outstanding claims, legal proceedings, tax audits and assessments and other contingent liabilities; foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; general economic and capital markets conditions; the timing of any of the foregoing; assumptions underlying any of the foregoing; and any other statements that address events or developments that Thermo Fisher intends or believes will or may occur in the future. Without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, expects, seeks, estimates, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements are accompanied by such words. While the company may elect to update forward-looking statements in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if the company s estimates change, and readers should not rely on those forward-looking statements as representing the company s views as of any date subsequent to the date of the filing of this report. A number of important factors could cause the results of the company to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including those detailed under the heading, Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A. Business Segments and Products We report our business in four segments Life Sciences Solutions, Analytical Instruments, Specialty Diagnostics, and Laboratory Products and Services. Life Sciences Solutions Segment Through our Life Sciences Solutions segment, we provide an extensive portfolio of reagents, instruments and consumables used in biological and medical research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines as well as diagnosis of disease. These products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, academic, and government markets. Life Sciences Solutions includes four primary businesses Biosciences, Genetic Sciences, Clinical Next-Generation Sequencing, and BioProduction. Biosciences Our biosciences business includes reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover new drugs and vaccines, and, in the case of some specific products, the diagnosis of disease. 3 THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Business (continued) Our biosciences offerings include: Reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, sample preparation and cell imaging and analysis. The portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and sequencing, detection and purification products used for high content analysis of nucleic acids. Many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. Tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis as well as RNA isolation, including stem cell reprogramming kits, transfection reagents, RNA interference reagents, along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. Cell culture media, reagents, and plastics for preserving and growing mammalian cells which are used in many life science research applications. Fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. These technologies include a wide range of cell analysis instruments, including flow cytometers and imaging platforms that enable fluorescence microscopy. Protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. Genetic Sciences Our genetic sciences business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to provide high-value genomic solutions to assist customer decisions in the research, clinical and applied markets. Our offerings include real-time PCR technology used to identify changes in gene expression, genotyping or proteins on an individual gene-by-gene basis; capillary electrophoresis (CE) sequencing, a core technology used in DNA sequencing and fragment analysis and forensic analysis applications; and microarray technology, used in gene expression, genotyping and reproductive health. Our genetic analyzers served as the foundational platform used to sequence the first human genome. These systems are used in a variety of basic, commercial and clinical research applications. Clinical Next-Generation Sequencing Our clinical next-generation sequencing (NGS) business focuses on delivering simple, fast and cost-effective NGS technology for a range of applications. The business is focused on targeted sequencing solutions for research use and the application of NGS in oncology. BioProduction Our bioproduction business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. Our bioproduction offerings include: Single-use bioproduction solutions that provide our customers with faster turnaround and set-up times, minimal validation requirements, reduced investment and running costs, and increased flexibility of manufacturing capacity. Production cell culture media solutions, which are used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable large scale cGMP (Current Good Manufacturing Practices) manufacturing of drugs and vaccines. We also provide our customers with the associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. Chromatography products, which deliver superior capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. Rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. Scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy based drugs. 4 THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Business (continued) Our Doe Ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that provide primarily life science manufacturers with reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials. Analytical Instruments Segment Through our Analytical Instruments segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. These products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government, environmental and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory. This segment includes three primary businesses Chromatography and Mass Spectrometry, Chemical Analysis, and Materials and Structural Analysis. Chromatography and Mass Spectrometry Our chromatography and mass spectrometry (MS) business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis across both applied technologies and life science research. These products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (LIMS); chromatography data systems (CDS); database analytical tools; automation systems; a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns; and a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. Chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. Our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our Chromeleon chromatography data system software. Liquid Chromatography (LC) Systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. Our high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (UHPLC) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (LC/MS and LC/MS/MS). These systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC). Ion Chromatography (IC) Systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. Our IC products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. Gas Chromatography (GC) Systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. Separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (GC) or with different types of mass spectrometers (GC/MS). Our GC/MS offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, an Orbitrap, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. Elemental Analysis Spectrometers use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. These products are widely used in growth markets such as China, India and Latin America to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. Mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. In addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. Our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; and inorganic mass spectrometry systems; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. Life Sciences Mass Spectrometers include triple quadrupole and Orbitrap technologies. Our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. They are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. Our Orbitrap technologies provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. We also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. 5 THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Business (continued) Inorganic Mass Spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS); multi-collector isotope ratio mass spectrometry (MC/IRMS); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP/MS); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (HR Trace/MS). These products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. Chemical Analysis Our chemical analysis products fall into three main categories: materials and minerals instruments; field safety instruments; and environmental and process instruments. Customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows primarily in industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. Our product lines range from those used on production lines to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time chemical identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. Materials and Minerals Instruments include production line process monitoring, and control systems for a range of industrial applications. For example, we offer on-line instruments that analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time to improve quality control and ensure safe operation in a mine or cement manufacturing plant, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. We also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. We also offer on-line analyzers based on a variety of technologies such as X-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on-line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. Field Safety Instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. Our main product categories are elemental analyzers, optical analyzers and radiation detection instruments. Our portable elemental analyzers use X-ray fluorescence (XRF) technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; QA/QC; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. Our portable optical analyzers utilize Raman, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and near-infrared (NIR) technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. Other applications include QA/QC in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. Our radiation measurement products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. Our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. These products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. Environmental and Process Instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. Our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, and stack gas emissions for compliance with regulated emissions standards for criteria pollutant gases. Our products are also used in ambient particulate monitoring applications by customers in mining environments to provide continuous measurements and logging of real-time concentrations and median particle sizes of airborne dust, smoke, mist and fumes to improve efficiency and increase worker safety. In addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers, including equipment servicing, instrument calibration services, asset management and training. Materials and Structural Analysis Our materials and structural analysis business includes electron microscopy, molecular spectroscopy and laboratory elemental analysis instruments that are used by customers in life sciences, materials sciences and industrial markets to accelerate breakthrough discoveries. Electron Microscopy Instruments include transmission electron microscopes which provide imaging and characterization at the atomic scale, with applications in semiconductor development, materials science research and the characterization of protein structure and function. We also offer scanning electron microscopes which resolve features from the optical regime down to the nanometer length scale and are used for a wide variety of applications from materials characterization in science and engineering to applications in natural resources, manufacturing, and biological systems. Our DualBeam focused ion beam-scanning electron microscope systems are used for sample 6 THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Business (continued) preparation, 3D characterization, nanoprototyping, and industrial failure analysis. Our focused ion beam microscopes are used in a range of process control, failure analysis, and materials research applications. We also offer electrical failure analysis instruments which are used in root cause failure analysis and quality control, microCT instruments which are micro-computed tomography solutions for quantitative analysis of a broad range of materials, providing 3D visualization of large volumes non-destructively and 3D visualization software that turns the data and images generated by a broad range of instruments into 3D visualizations of the microscopic sample, allowing quantitative analysis of material properties. Molecular Spectroscopy Instruments are divided into four primary techniques: FTIR, Raman, NIR and ultraviolet/visible (UV/Vis) spectroscopy. These technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. Our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. We also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. Laboratory Elemental Analysis Instruments and analyzers use X-ray fluorescence (XRF), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and arc spark optical emission (OES) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. Specialty Diagnostics Segment Our Specialty Diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. Our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. This segment has five primary businesses Clinical Diagnostics, ImmunoDiagnostics, Microbiology, Transplant Diagnostics and our Healthcare Market Channel. In June 2019, the company sold its Anatomical Pathology business, previously reported in this segment. The business offered products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. Clinical Diagnostics Our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. In particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. We also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through OEM arrangements. In many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. We have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. We also provide a broad offering of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. Our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. Our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. We also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. ImmunoDiagnostics Our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. In addition, we offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. Our products include ImmunoCAP for allergy and asthma tests and EliA for autoimmunity tests. Microbiology Our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. Our products help customers worldwide to diagnose 7 THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC. Business (continued) infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. Within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. Transplant Diagnostics Our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. Our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. These transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. Our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of HLA typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), flow, and multiplexing technologies. Healthcare Market Channel Our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians offices and other clinical testing facilities. These products are manufactured by Thermo Fisher and third parties and are primarily used in clinical diagnosis. Laboratory Products and Services Segment Our Laboratory Products and Services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. Our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering, enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. The segment also includes a comprehensive offering of outsourced services used by the pharmaceutical and biotech industries for drug development, clinical trials logistics and commercial drug manufacturing. We serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: Laboratory Products, Laboratory Chemicals, Research and Safety Market Channel, and Pharma Services. Laboratory Products Our laboratory products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. This offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis: Laboratory Equipment Technologies includes our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks for maintaining samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. We also offer temperature control products such as heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. In addition, we offer sample preparation and preservation equipment, which protects our customers chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity as well as incubators and related products. We also offer centrifugation products, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials, including microcentrifuges, general use bench-top centrifuges and floor models. Additionally, we offer biological safety cabinets, which enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. Water and Laboratory Products include water analysis instruments such as meter