Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. [Reserved] 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item 9A . Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B . Other Information 107 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 107 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 108 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 108 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 108 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 108 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 108 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 108 Index to Exhibits 121 Signatures 121 2 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) of T-Mobile US, Inc. ( T-Mobile, we, our, us or the Company ) includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, including information concerning our future results of operations, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, could or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The following important factors, along with the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, could affect future results and cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: competition, industry consolidation and changes in the market for wireless communications services and other forms of connectivity; criminal cyberattacks, disruption, data loss or other security breaches; our inability to take advantage of technological developments on a timely basis; our inability to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel or maintain our corporate culture; system failures and business disruptions, allowing for unauthorized use of or interference with our network and other systems; the scarcity and cost of additional wireless spectrum, and regulations relating to spectrum use; challenges in modernizing our existing applications and systems; the impacts of the actions we have taken and conditions we have agreed to in connection with the regulatory proceedings and approvals of our merger (the Merger ) with Sprint Corporation ( Sprint ) pursuant to a Business Combination Agreement with Sprint and the other parties named therein (as amended, the Business Combination Agreement ) and the other transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement (collectively, the Transactions ), including the acquisition by DISH Network Corporation ( DISH ) of the prepaid wireless business operated under the Boost Mobile and Sprint prepaid brands (excluding the Assurance brand Lifeline customers and the prepaid wireless customers of Shenandoah Personal Communications Company LLC ( Shentel ) and Swiftel Communications, Inc.), including customer accounts, inventory, contracts, intellectual property and certain other specified assets, and the assumption of certain related liabilities (collectively, the Prepaid Transaction ), the complaint and proposed final judgment (the Final Judgment ) agreed to by us, Deutsche Telekom AG ( DT ), Sprint, SoftBank Group Corp. ( SoftBank ) and DISH with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, which was approved by the Court on April 1, 2020, as amended on October 23, 2023, the proposed commitments filed with the Secretary of the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ), which we announced on May 20, 2019, certain national security commitments and undertakings, and any other commitments or undertakings entered into, including, but not limited to, those we have made to certain states and nongovernmental organizations (collectively, the Government Commitments ), and the challenges in satisfying the Government Commitments in the required time frames and the significant cumulative costs incurred in tracking and monitoring compliance over multiple years; adverse economic, political or market conditions in the U.S. and international markets, including changes resulting from increases in inflation or interest rates, supply chain disruptions and impacts of geopolitical instability, such as the Ukraine-Russia and Israel-Hamas wars and further escalations thereof; sociopolitical volatility and polarization; our inability to manage the ongoing arrangements entered into in connection with the Prepaid Transaction, and known or unknown liabilities arising in connection therewith; the timing and effects of any future acquisition, divestiture, investment, or merger involving us; any disruption or failure of our third parties (including key suppliers) to provide products or services for the operation of our business; our substantial level of indebtedness and our inability to service our debt obligations in accordance with their terms; changes in the credit market conditions, credit rating downgrades or an inability to access debt markets; the risk of future material weaknesses we may identify or any other failure by us to maintain effective internal controls, and the resulting significant costs and reputational damage; any changes in regulations or in the regulatory framework under which we operate; laws and regulations relating to the handling of privacy and data protection; unfavorable outcomes of and increased costs from existing or future regulatory or legal proceedings; 3 difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; our offering of regulated financial services products and exposure to a wide variety of state and federal regulations; new or amended tax laws or regulations or administrative interpretations and judicial decisions affecting the scope or application of tax laws or regulations; our wireless licenses, including those controlled through leasing agreements, are subject to renewal and may be revoked; our exclusive forum provision as provided in our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Certificate of Incorporation ); interests of DT, our controlling stockholder, which may differ from the interests of other stockholders; the dollar amount authorized for our 2023-2024 Stockholder Return Program (as defined in Note 13 Stockholder Return Progr ams of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) may not be fully utilized, and our share repurchases and dividend payments pursuant thereto may fail to have the desired impact on stockholder value; and future sales of our common stock by DT and SoftBank and our inability to attract additional equity financing outside the United States due to foreign ownership limitations by the FCC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing and internal controls and processes that continue to evolve. Our ESG initiatives are subject to additional risks and uncertainties, including regarding the evolving nature of data availability, quality, and assessment; related methodological concerns; our ability to implement various initiatives under expected timeframes, cost, and complexity; our dependency on third parties to provide certain information and to comply with applicable laws and policies; and other unforeseen events or conditions. For example, we note that standards and expectations regarding greenhouse gas ( GHG ) accounting and the processes for measuring and counting GHG emissions and GHG emission reductions are evolving, and it is possible that our approaches both to measuring our emissions and to reducing emissions and measuring those reductions may be, either currently by some stakeholders or at some point in the future, considered inconsistent with common or best practices with respect to measuring and accounting for such matters, and reducing overall emissions. These factors, as well as others, may cause results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Additionally, we may provide information that is not necessarily material for SEC reporting purposes but that is informed by various ESG standards and frameworks (including standards for the measurement of underlying data), internal controls, and assumptions or third-party information that are still evolving and subject to change. Our disclosures based on any standards may change due to revisions in framework requirements, availability of information, changes in our business or applicable governmental policies, or other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Investors and others should note that we announce material information to our investors using our investor relations website (https://investor.t-mobile.com), newsroom website (https://t-mobile.com/news), press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We intend to also use certain social media accounts as means of disclosing information about us and our services and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD (the @TMobileIR X (formerly Twitter) account (https://twitter.com/TMobileIR), the @MikeSievert X account (https://twitter.com/MikeSievert), which Mr. Sievert also uses as a means for personal communications and observations, and the @TMobileCFO X Account (https://twitter.com/tmobilecfo) and our Chief Financial Officer s LinkedIn account (https://www.linkedin.com/in/peter-osvaldik-3887394), both of which Mr. Osvaldik also uses as a means for personal communication and observations). The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these social media channels in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The social media channels that we intend to use as a means of disclosing the information described above may be updated from time to time as listed on our investor relations website. 4 Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business Business Overview and Strategy Un-carrier Strategy As America s supercharged Un-carrier, we have disrupted the wireless communications services industry by actively engaging with and listening to our customers and focusing on eliminating their pain points. This includes providing added value and what we believe is an exceptional experience while implementing signature Un-carrier initiatives that have changed the wireless industry. We ended annual service contracts, overages, unpredictable international roaming fees and data buckets, among other things. We are inspired by a relentless focus on customer experience, consistently delivering award-winning customer experience with our Total Experience approach, which drives our customer satisfaction levels while enabling operational efficiencies. With what we believe is America s largest, fastest, most awarded and most advanced 5G network, the Un-carrier strives to offer customers unrivaled coverage and capacity where they live, work and travel. We believe our network is the foundation of our success and powers everything we do. Our layer cake of spectrum provides an unmatched 5G and overall network experience to our customers, which consists of our foundational layer of low-band, our mid-band and our millimeter-wave ( mmWave ) spectrum licenses (see Spectrum Position below). This multilayer portfolio of spectrum broadens and deepens our nationwide 5G network, enabling accelerated innovation and increased competition in the U.S. wireless and broadband industries. We continue to expand the footprint and improve the quality of our network, enabling us to provide what we believe are outstanding wireless experiences for customers who should not have to compromise on quality and value. Our network allows us to deliver new, innovative products and services, such as our High Speed Internet fixed wireless product, with the same customer experience focus and industry-disrupting mindset that we have adopted in our attempt to redefine the wireless communications services industry in the United States in the customers favor. Our Operations As of December 31, 2023, we provide wireless communications services to 119.7 million postpaid and prepaid customers and generate revenue by providing affordable wireless communications services to these customers, as well as a wide selection of wireless devices and accessories. We also provide wholesale wireless services to various partners, who then offer the services for sale to their customers. Our most significant expenses relate to operating and expanding our network, providing a full range of devices, acquiring and retaining high-quality customers and compensating employees. We provide services, devices and accessories across our flagship brands, T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile, through our owned and operated retail stores, as well as through our websites (www.t-mobile.com and www.metrobyt-mobile.com), T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile apps, customer care channels and through national retailers. In addition, we sell devices to dealers and other third-party distributors for resale through independent third-party retail outlets and a variety of third-party websites. The information on our websites is not part of this Form 10-K. See Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Services and Products We provide mobile wireless communications services through a variety of service plan options. We also offer for sale to customers a wide selection of wireless devices, including smartphones, wearables, tablets, home broadband routers and other mobile communication devices that are manufactured by various suppliers. Our most popular service plan offering is Go5G Plus, which includes unlimited talk, text and data on our network, 5G access at no extra cost, scam protection features, access to the same device offers as new customers and more. We also offer an Essentials rate plan for customers who want the basics at a lower price point, specific rate plans to qualifying customers, including Military and Veterans, First Responder and 55+, as well as Go5G and Go5G Next plans to deliver a full suite of plans that provide customers the features that meet their lifestyle and daily needs. At the time of device purchase, qualified customers can finance all or a portion of the individual device or accessory purchase price over an installment period, generally of 24 months, using an equipment installment plan ( EIP ). 5 Table of Contents In addition to our mobile wireless communications services, we offer High Speed Internet, which includes a fixed wireless product that utilizes the excess capacity of our nationwide 5G network. Our fixed wireless product is available to millions of domestic households where we currently have excess network capacity, providing, for some consumers, an alternative to traditional landline internet service providers and expanding access to and choice for some consumers. With our High Speed Internet plan, customers can access the internet without worrying about annual service contracts, data overages or hidden fees. We also provide products and services that are complementary to our wireless communications services, including device protection, financial services and advertising. In September 2022, we entered into an agreement for the sale of the Wireline Business, and on May 1, 2023, we completed the sale of the Wireline Business. See Note 14 Wireline for additional information. Customers We provide wireless communications services to a variety of customers needing connectivity, but focus primarily on two categories of customers: Postpaid customers generally are qualified to pay after receiving wireless communications services utilizing phones, High Speed Internet modems, mobile internet devices (including tablets and hotspots), wearables, DIGITS and other connected devices, including SyncUP and internet of things ( IoT ). We serve consumers as well as business customers, who are provided services under the T-Mobile for Business brand. Prepaid customers generally pay for wireless communications services in advance. We serve prepaid customers under the T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile brands. We provide Machine-to-Machine ( M2M ) and Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) customers access to our network. This access and the customer relationship are managed by wholesale partners, with whom we have commercial agreements permitting them to sell services utilizing our network. We generate the majority of our service revenues by providing wireless communications services to postpaid and prepaid customers. Our ability to attract and retain postpaid and prepaid customers is important to our business in the generation of service revenues, equipment revenues and other revenues. In 2023, our service revenues generated by providing wireless communications services by customer category were: 77% Postpaid customers; 15% Prepaid customers; and 8% Wholesale and other services. Substantially all of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, were earned in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Network Strategy Utilizing our multilayer spectrum portfolio, our mission is to become Famous for Network. We have deployed low-band, mid-band and mmWave spectrum dedicated for 5G across our dense and broad network to create what we believe is America s largest, fastest, most awarded and most advanced 5G network. The Merger greatly enhanced our spectrum position. Integration of the spectrum and network assets acquired in the Merger was substantially completed in 2023. Our integration strategy included deploying the acquired spectrum on the combined network assets to supplement capacity, migrating Sprint customers to our network and optimizing the combined assets by decommissioning redundant sites. As of December 31, 2022, we had decommissioned substantially all targeted Sprint macro sites. As a result of the Merger, we have achieved significant synergies and cost reductions by eliminating redundancies within our network, as well as through other business processes and operations. 6 Table of Contents Spectrum Position We provide wireless communications services utilizing low-band spectrum licenses covering our 600 MHz and 700 MHz spectrum, mid-band spectrum licenses, such as Advanced Wireless Services ( AWS ), Personal Communications Services ( PCS ) and 2.5 GHz spectrum, and mmWave spectrum. We controlled, or expected to control based on previously announced auction results, an average of 392 MHz of combined low- and mid-band spectrum nationwide as of December 31, 2023. This spectrum is comprised of: An average of 40 MHz in the 600 MHz band; An average of 10 MHz in the 700 MHz band; An average of 14 MHz in the 800 MHz band; An average of 41 MHz in the 1700 MHz AWS band; An average of 66 MHz in the 1900 MHz PCS band; An average of 182 MHz in the 2.5 GHz band; An average of 12 MHz in the 3.45 GHz band; and An average of 27 MHz in the C-band. We controlled an average of 1,157 GHz of combined mmWave spectrum licenses. In August 2022, we entered into license purchase agreements pursuant to which we will acquire spectrum in the 600 MHz band in exchange for total cash consideration of $3.5 billion. See Note 6 Goodwill, Spectrum License Transactions and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. In September 2022, the FCC announced that we were the winning bidder of 7,156 licenses in Auction 108 (2.5 GHz spectrum) for an aggregate price of $304 million. The timing of when the licenses will be issued will be determined by the FCC after all post-auction procedures have been completed. In September 2023, we entered into a license purchase agreement pursuant to which we will acquire spectrum in the 600 MHz band in exchange for total cash consideration of between $1.2 billion and $3.3 billion. See Note 6 Goodwill, Spectrum License Transactions and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. We plan to evaluate future spectrum purchases in future auctions and in the secondary market to further augment our current spectrum position. As of December 31, 2023, we had equipment deployed on approximately 80,000 macro cell sites and 48,000 small cell/distributed antenna system sites across our network. 5G Leadership We believe our 5G network is America s largest, fastest, most awarded and most advanced: As of December 31, 2023, our Ultra Capacity 5G utilizing mid-band and mmWave spectrum covers more than 300 million people. As of December 31, 2023, our total 5G coverage, including low-band spectrum, covers more than 330 million people, reaching 98% of Americans. Competition The wireless communications services industry remains competitive. We are the second largest provider of wireless communications services in the U.S. as measured by our total postpaid and prepaid customers. Our competitors include other carriers, such as AT T Inc. ( AT T ), Verizon Communications, Inc. ( Verizon ), and DISH as it continues to grow its network. In addition, our competitors include numerous smaller and regional providers, including Comcast Corporation, Charter Communications, Inc., Cox Communications, Inc., and Altice USA, Inc., many of which offer no-contract, postpaid and prepaid service plans. Competitors also include providers who offer similar communication services, such as voice, messaging and data services, using alternative technologies. Competitive factors within the wireless communications services industry include pricing, market saturation, service and product offerings, customer experience, network investment and quality, development and deployment of technologies and regulatory changes. Some of our competitors have shown a willingness to use discounted pricing or offer bundled services as a potential source of differentiation. 7 Table of Contents Human Capital Employees As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 67,000 full-time and part-time employees, including network, retail, administrative and customer support functions. Attraction and Retention We employ a highly skilled workforce within a broad range of functions. Substantially all of our employees are located throughout the United States, including Puerto Rico, to serve our nationwide network and retail operations. Our headquarters are located in Bellevue, Washington, and Overland Park, Kansas. We attract and retain our workforce through a dynamic and inclusive culture and by providing a comprehensive set of benefits, including: Competitive medical, dental and vision benefits; Family-building benefits designed to meet the diverse needs of our employees, including IVF and IUI, adoption and surrogacy benefits; Annual stock grants to all full-time and part-time employees and a discounted Employee Stock Purchase Program; A 401(k) Savings Plan; Nationwide minimum pay of at least $20 per hour to all full-time and part-time employees; LiveMagenta: a custom-branded program for employee engagement and well-being, including free access to life coaches, financial coaches and tools for healthy living; Access to personal health advocates offering independent guidance; A generous paid time off program, including paid family leave; Tuition assistance for all full-time and part-time employees, including full tuition partnerships with multiple schools; and A matching program for employee donations and volunteering. Training and Development Career growth and development is foundational to T-Mobile s culture and success. We want to deliver the best experiences from the best teams, and one way we do that is by offering an array of development programs and resources to build diverse talent and empower our people to succeed through every step of their career. It is all easily accessible on our Magenta U site, which is our one-stop shop for all things career development and learning. The online learning portal is designed to put employees in the driver s seat and give them access to mentoring, training, videos, books, job search and interview tips, and much more. By strategically investing in the following three key areas of career development and learning, we are developing our talent now and for the future. Evolve skills and careers Learn every day, champion relentless improvement, develop critical skills, explore career possibilities, and build the desired career; Advance leadership expertise Build critical leadership capabilities, enable leadership growth at all levels, and develop skills to lead in the future; and Champion diversity, equity and inclusion ( DE I ) Promote inclusive habits and behaviors, enhance belonging and connectedness, and advocate for equitable opportunities. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DE I have always been a part of the Un-carrier culture, and we are committed to having DE I touch every aspect of our future. Our Equity in Action Plan is a five-year plan that spans the values we live by, how we invest in and provide opportunities for our employees, how we select the suppliers we do business with and how we advocate for our communities. 8 Table of Contents For our employees, we have established six DE I Employee Resource Groups and four sub-affinity groups that have helped us establish and maintain a culture of inclusion. Currently, we have over 40 DE I chapters across the nation that help spearhead volunteer opportunities, events and meaningful conversation with employees at a local level. Our DE I Employee Resource Groups include the following: Accessibility Community at T-Mobile; Multicultural Alliance; Asia Pacific Allies Network; Black Empowerment Network; Indigenous Peoples Network; Magenta Latinx Network; Multigenerational Network; Pride; Veterans Allies Network; and Women Allies Network. As part of T-Mobile s Equity In Action Plan and Promises, we have established two External Diversity and Inclusion Councils in connection with our civil rights memorandum of understanding. The councils include civil rights leaders representing a wide range of underrepresented communities. Together with T-Mobile, the councils are helping us identify ways to improve our efforts in focus areas such as corporate governance, workforce recruitment and retention, procurement, entrepreneurship, philanthropy and community investment. Since April 2020, we have achieved a significant portion of the Equity In Action Promises, currently at 80% completed. As DE I are instrumental to our culture and values, we are also on a mission to create fair and equitable opportunities for all suppliers, including veteran-owned, disability-owned, woman-owned, minority-owned, LGBT-owned and small and disadvantaged businesses. We have implemented a Supplier Diversity Category Management Strategy for our network technology procurement organization to help identify opportunities and develop actionable targets for progress on this topic. This year, we updated our Supplier Diversity Policy that provides the primary guidance designed to ensure that DE I are integrated into the purchasing process of goods and services for and on behalf of T-Mobile. In addition, we published T-Mobile s CEO Supplier Diversity Policy Statement, reenforcing our Equity In Action diversity plan that aims to increase the amount of business we do with diverse suppliers. Environmental Sustainability Reducing Our Carbon Footprint We are working to reduce the impact of our operations on the climate by setting carbon reduction goals that are aligned with science and investing in renewable energy. We are reducing our carbon footprint through several initiatives, including: Making progress on our science-based net-zero target for 2040 that includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions; Investing in renewable energy, as evidenced by our RE100 pledge, a global initiative that unites businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity. We first met this goal in 2021 and have achieved it in each subsequent year so far by matching our electricity usage with renewable energy credits acquired through a variety of sources, including through our engagement in Virtual Power Purchasing Agreements and a Green Direct tariff agreement with nine clean energy providers for expected annual provision of approximately 3.5 million megawatt hours of renewable electricity; Continuously testing and evaluating more efficient equipment for our facilities, including switch stations, cell sites, retail stores and customer experience centers to reduce energy consumption; and Promoting a circular econo