Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8 . Financial Statement s and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 114 Item 9A . Controls and Procedures 114 Item 9B . Other Information 115 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 115 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 115 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 116 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 116 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 I ndex to Exhibits 117 Signatures 131 2 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, including information concerning our future results of operations, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, could or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The following important factors, along with the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, could affect future results and cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: adverse impact caused by the COVID-19 pandemic (the Pandemic ); competition, industry consolidation and changes in the market for wireless services; disruption, data loss or other security breaches, such as the criminal cyberattack we became aware of in August 2021; our inability to take advantage of technological developments on a timely basis; our inability to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel or maintain our corporate culture; system failures and business disruptions, allowing for unauthorized use of or interference with our network and other systems; the scarcity and cost of additional wireless spectrum, and regulations relating to spectrum use; the impacts of the actions we have taken and conditions we have agreed to in connection with the regulatory proceedings and approvals of the Transactions (as defined below), including the acquisition by DISH Network Corporation ( DISH ) of the prepaid wireless business operated under the Boost Mobile and Sprint prepaid brands (excluding the Assurance brand Lifeline customers and the prepaid wireless customers of Shenandoah Personal Communications Company LLC ( Shentel ) and Swiftel Communications, Inc.), including customer accounts, inventory, contracts, intellectual property and certain other specified assets (the Prepaid Business ), and the assumption of certain related liabilities (collectively, the Prepaid Transaction ), the complaint and proposed final judgment (the Consent Decree ) agreed to by us, Deutsche Telekom AG ( DT ), Sprint Corporation, now known as Sprint LLC ( Sprint ), SoftBank Group Corp. ( SoftBank ) and DISH with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, which was approved by the Court on April 1, 2020, the proposed commitments filed with the Secretary of the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ), which we announced on May 20, 2019, certain national security commitments and undertakings, and any other commitments or undertakings entered into, including but not limited to, those we have made to certain states and nongovernmental organizations (collectively, the Government Commitments ), and the challenges in satisfying the Government Commitments in the required time frames and the significant cumulative costs incurred in tracking and monitoring compliance; adverse economic, political or market conditions in the U.S. and international markets, including those caused by the Pandemic; our inability to manage the ongoing commercial and transition services arrangements entered into in connection with the Prepaid Transaction, and known or unknown liabilities arising in connection therewith; the effects of any future acquisition, investment, or merger involving us; any disruption or failure of our third parties (including key suppliers) to provide products or services for the operation of our business; our substantial level of indebtedness and our inability to service our debt obligations in accordance with their terms or to comply with the restrictive covenants contained therein; changes in the credit market conditions, credit rating downgrades or an inability to access debt markets; restrictive covenants including the agreements governing our indebtedness and other financings; the risk of future material weaknesses we may identify while we continue to work to integrate and align policies, principles and practices of the two companies following the Merger (as defined below), or any other failure by us to maintain effective internal controls, and the resulting significant costs and reputational damage; any changes in regulations or in the regulatory framework under which we operate; laws and regulations relating to the handling of privacy and data protection; unfavorable outcomes of existing or future legal proceedings, including these proceedings and inquiries relating to the criminal cyberattack we became aware of in August 2021; the possibility that we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of others; our offering of regulated financial services products and exposure to a wide variety of state and federal regulations; 3 new or amended tax laws or regulations or administrative interpretations and judicial decisions affecting the scope or application of tax laws or regulations; our exclusive forum provision as provided in our Certificate of Incorporation (as defined below); interests of our significant stockholders that may differ from the interests of other stockholders; future sales of our common stock by DT and SoftBank and our inability to attract additional equity financing outside the United States due to foreign ownership limitations by the FCC; failure to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the merger (the Merger ) with Sprint, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement with Sprint and the other parties named therein (as amended, the Business Combination Agreement ) and the other transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement (collectively, the Transactions ) in the expected time frames or in the amounts anticipated; any delay and costs of, or difficulties in, integrating our business and Sprint s business and operations, and unexpected additional operating costs, customer loss and business disruptions, including challenges in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, suppliers or vendors; and unanticipated difficulties, disruption, or significant delays in our long-term strategy to migrate Sprint s legacy customers onto T-Mobile s existing billing platforms. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. In this Form 10-K, unless the context indicates otherwise, references to T-Mobile, our Company, the Company, we, our, and us refer to T-Mobile US, Inc. as a stand-alone company prior to April 1, 2020, the date we completed the Merger with Sprint, and on and after April 1, 2020, refer to the combined company as a result of the Merger. Investors and others should note that we announce material information to our investors using our investor relations website (https://investor.t-mobile.com), newsroom website (https://t-mobile.com/news), press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We intend to also use certain social media accounts as means of disclosing information about us and our services and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD (the @TMobileIR Twitter account (https://twitter.com/TMobileIR) and the @MikeSievert Twitter account (https://twitter.com/MikeSievert), which Mr. Sievert also uses as a means for personal communications and observations). The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these social media channels in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The social media channels that we intend to use as a means of disclosing the information described above may be updated from time to time as listed on our Investor Relations website. 4 Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business Business Overview and Strategy Un-carrier Strategy We are America s supercharged Un-carrier. Through our Un-carrier strategy, we have disrupted the wireless communications services industry, by actively engaging with and listening to our customers and eliminating their existing pain points, including providing them with added value, an exceptional experience and implementing signature Un-carrier initiatives that have changed wireless for good. We ended annual service contracts, overages, unpredictable international roaming fees, data buckets and so much more. We are inspired by a relentless customer experience focus, consistently leading the wireless industry in customer care by delivering award-winning customer experience with our Team of Experts, which drives our record-high customer satisfaction levels while enabling operational efficiencies. As the Un-carrier, we are on a mission to build America s best 5G network, offering customers unrivalled coverage and capacity where they live, work and play. Our network is the foundation of our success and powers everything we do. We are leveraging our mid-band spectrum licenses, including 1700 MHz Advanced Wireless Services ( AWS ), 1900 MHz Personal Communications Services ( PCS ) and 2.5 GHz, our millimeter-wave licenses and our foundational layer of low-band spectrum, including 600 MHz, 700 MHz and 800 MHz, to create a layer cake of spectrum to provide an unmatched 5G experience to our customers. We believe this layer cake will broaden and deepen our nationwide 5G network enabling accelerated innovation and increased competition in the U.S. wireless, video and broadband industries. As a result of the Merger, we have achieved and expect to continue to achieve significant synergies and cost reductions by eliminating redundancies within our network as well as other business processes and operations. We continue to expand the footprint and improve the quality of our network, providing outstanding wireless experiences for customers who will not have to compromise on quality and value. Going forward, it is this network that will allow us to deliver new, innovative products and services with the same customer experience focus and industry-disrupting mentality that has redefined the wireless communications services industry in the United States in the customers favor. Our Operations As of December 31, 2021, we provide wireless services to 108.7 million postpaid and prepaid customers and generate revenue by providing affordable wireless communications services to these customers, as well as a wide selection of wireless devices and accessories. Our most significant expenses relate to operating and expanding our network, providing a full range of devices, acquiring and retaining high-quality customers and compensating employees. We provide services, devices and accessories across our flagship brands, T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile, through our owned and operated retail stores, as well as through our websites (www.t-mobile.com and www.metrobyt-mobile.com), T-Mobile app, customer care channels and through national retailers. In addition, we sell devices to dealers and other third-party distributors for resale through independent third-party retail outlets and a variety of third-party websites. The information on our websites is not part of this Form 10-K. See Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Services and Products We provide wireless communications services through a variety of service plan options. We also offer a wide selection of wireless devices, including smartphones, wearables, tablets and other mobile communication devices, which are manufactured by various suppliers. Our primary service plan offering, which allows customers to subscribe for wireless communications services separately from the purchase of a device, is our signature Magenta plan ( Magenta ), which includes, among other benefits, unlimited talk, text and smartphone data on our network, 5G access at no extra cost, scam protection features and more. Customers also have the ability to choose additional features, such as unlimited premium data with our Ultra Capacity 5G service, for an additional cost on our Magenta Max plan. We also offer an Essentials rate plan for customers who want the basics, as well as specific rate plans to qualifying customers, including Unlimited 55+, Military and Veterans, First Responder, and Business. 5 Table of Contents Our device options for qualifying customers include: The option of financing all or a portion of the individual device or accessory purchase price at the time of sale over an installment period, generally of 24 months, using an equipment installment plan ( EIP ); and The option to lease a device over a period of up to 18 months and upgrade it when eligibility requirements are met. In addition to our wireless communications services, we offer fast and reliable High Speed Internet utilizing our nationwide network. Our fixed wireless High Speed Internet provides a real alternative to traditional landline internet service providers and expands access to many people who have historically had only one choice or no access to traditional home broadband. With our High Speed Internet plan, customers can access the internet without worrying about annual service contracts, data overages, startup costs or hidden fees. We also provide products and services that are complementary to our wireless communications services, including device protection and wireline communication services to domestic and international customers. Customers We provide wireless communications services to two primary categories of customers: Postpaid customers generally include customers who are qualified to pay after receiving wireless communications services utilizing phones, High Speed Internet, wearables, DIGITS (a service that allows our customers to use multiple mobile numbers on any compatible smartphone, wearable or other device with internet connection) or other connected devices, which include tablets and SyncUp products; and Prepaid customers generally include customers who pay for wireless communications services in advance. Our prepaid customers include customers of T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile. We provide Machine-to-Machine ( M2M ) and Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) customers access to our network. This access and the customer relationship is managed by wholesale partners. We generate the majority of our service revenues by providing wireless communications services to postpaid and prepaid customers. Our ability to attract and retain postpaid and prepaid customers is important to our business in the generation of service revenues, equipment revenues and other revenues. In 2021, our service revenues generated by providing wireless communications services by customer category were: 73% Postpaid customers; 17% Prepaid customers; and 10% Wholesale and other services. Substantially all of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, were earned in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Network Strategy Utilizing our multi-layer spectrum portfolio, our mission is to be Famous for Network. We have deployed low-band and mid-band spectrum dedicated for 5G across our dense and broad network to create America s largest, fastest and most reliable 5G network. Our Merger with Sprint greatly enhanced our spectrum position. Integration of the spectrum and network assets acquired in the Merger is expected to occur through 2023. The integration strategy includes deploying the acquired spectrum on the combined network assets to supplement capacity, migrating Sprint customers to our network and optimizing the combined assets by decommissioning redundant sites to realize synergies. 6 Table of Contents Spectrum Position We provide wireless communications services utilizing mid-band spectrum licenses, such as AWS, PCS and 2.5 GHz, low-band spectrum licenses utilizing our 600 MHz, 700 MHz and 800 MHz spectrum and mmWave spectrum. We controlled an average of 357 MHz of combined low- and mid-band spectrum nationwide as of December 31, 2021. This spectrum is comprised of: An average of 40 MHz in the 600 MHz band; An average of 10 MHz in the 700 MHz band; An average of 14 MHz in the 800 MHz band; An average of 41 MHz in the 1700 MHz AWS band; An average of 66 MHz in the 1900 MHz PCS band; An average of 159 MHz in the 2.5 GHz band; and An average of 27 MHz in the C-band. We controlled an average of 1,157 GHz of combined millimeter spectrum licenses. In March 2021, the FCC announced that we were the winning bidder of 142 licenses in Auction 107 ( C-band spectrum ) for an aggregate purchase price of $9.3 billion. The licenses acquired include an average of 40 MHz across the top markets and an average of 27 MHz nationwide. We expect to incur an additional $1.0 billion in relocation costs associated with the C-band spectrum acquired, which will be paid through 2024. In January 2022, the FCC announced that we were the winning bidder of 199 licenses in Auction 110 (mid-band spectrum) for an aggregate purchase price of $2.9 billion. Subsequent to Auction 110, we will control an average of 12 MHz in the 3.45 GHz band nationwide. We plan to evaluate future spectrum purchases in current and upcoming auctions and in the secondary market to further augment our current spectrum position. As of December 31, 2021, we had equipment deployed on approximately 102,000 macro cell sites and 41,000 small cell/distributed antenna system sites across our network. 5G Leadership Our 5G network is America s largest, fastest and most reliable: As of December 31, 2021, our Ultra Capacity 5G covers 210 million people and can deliver speeds of 400 Mbps or more. As of December 31, 2021, our Extended Range 5G covers 310 million people, reaching 94% of Americans. Competition The wireless communications services industry is highly competitive. We are the second largest provider of wireless communications services in the U.S. as measured by our total postpaid and prepaid customers. Our competitors include other national carriers, such as AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and Verizon Communications, Inc. ( Verizon ). In addition, our competitors include numerous smaller regional carriers, MVNOs, including Comcast Corporation, Charter Communications, Inc., Altice USA, Inc. and DISH, many of which offer no-contract, postpaid and prepaid service plans. Competitors also include providers who offer similar communication services, such as voice, messaging and data services, using alternative technologies or services. Competitive factors within the wireless communications services industry include pricing, market saturation, service and product offerings, customer experience, network investment and quality, development and deployment of technologies and regulatory changes. Some competitors have shown a willingness to use aggressive pricing or offering bundled services as a source of differentiation. Other competitors have sought to add ancillary services, like mobile video or music streaming services, to enhance their offerings. Taken together, the competitive factors we face continue to put pressure on growth and margins as companies compete to retain the current customer base and continue to add new customers. 7 Table of Contents Human Capital Employees As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 75,000 full-time and part-time employees, including network, retail, administrative and customer support functions. Attraction and Retention We employ a highly skilled workforce within a broad range of functions. Substantially all of our employees are located throughout the United States, including Puerto Rico, to serve our nationwide network and retail operations. Our headquarters are located in Bellevue, Washington and Overland Park, Kansas. We attract and retain our workforce through a dynamic and inclusive culture and by providing exceptional benefits, including: Competitive medical, dental and vision benefits; Annual stock grants to all full-time and part-time employees and a discounted Employee Stock Purchase Program; A 401(k) Savings Plan; Nationwide minimum pay of at least $20 per hour to all full-time and part-time employees; LiveMagenta: a custom-branded program for employee engagement and well-being, including free access to life coaches, financial coaches and tools for healthy living; Access to personal health advocates offering independent guidance; Tuition assistance for all full-time and part-time employees; and A matching program for employee donations and volunteering. Training and Development We believe in providing opportunities for our employees to improve their skills and advance their careers. We do this through a variety of programs, including: Award-winning career and development programs for all employees at all levels; Transparent career paths available to employees and candidates that provide realistic progression timelines, salaries and expectations; A Customer Care organization that uses 102 types of programs to train our front line representatives and leaders; A Leader-to-Executives Program that provides elite career track opportunities for select MBA students and graduates; and Training for employees with disabilities pursuant to U.S. Department of Labor standards. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, equity and inclusion ( DE I ) have always been a part of the Un-carrier culture, and we are committed to having DE I touch every aspect of our future. Our Equity in Action Plan is a five-year plan that spans the values we live by, how we invest in and provide opportunities for our employees, how we select the suppliers we do business with and how we advocate for our communities. For our employees, we have established six DE I Employee Resource Groups and four sub-affinity groups that have helped us establish and maintain a culture of inclusion. Currently, we have over 50 DE I chapters across the nation that help spearhead volunteer opportunities, events and meaningful conversation with employees at a local level. Our DE I networks include the following: Accessibility Community at T-Mobile; Multicultural Alliance; Asia Pacific Allies Network; Black Empowerment Network; Indigenous Peoples Network; 8 Table of Contents Magenta Latinx Network; Multigenerational Network; Pride; Veterans Allies Network; and Women Allies Network. We have established an External Diversity and Inclusion Council in connection with our civil rights memorandum of understanding. The council includes civil rights leaders representing a wide-range of underrepresented communities. Together with T-Mobile, the council will help identify ways to improve our efforts in focus areas such as corporate governance, workforce recruitment and retention, procurement, entrepreneurship, philanthropy and community investment. Environmental Sustainability Reducing Carbon Footprint We are working to do our part to combat climate change and preserve the environment by setting carbon reduction goals that are aligned with science and investing in renewable energy. We are reducing our carbon footprint through several initiatives, including: Setting science-based targets to reduce our Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions; Investing in renewable energy, as evidenced by our RE100 pledge, a global initiative that unites businesses committed to 100% renewable energy. We met this goal in 2021 through credits and our engagement in Virtual Power Purchasing Agreements (VPPAs) and a Green Direct tariff agreement with nine clean energy providers for expected annual provision of approximately 3.4 million megawatt hours of renewable energy; Continuously testing and evaluating new, efficient equipment for our facilities, including switch stations, cell sites, retail stores and customer experience centers to reduce energy consumption; and Promoting the circular economy through our device reuse and recycle program, which collects millions of devices for reuse, resale, and recycling annually. Responsible Sourcing We believe our suppliers are a valuable extension of our business and corporate values. Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations around ethical business practices for our suppliers. We require our suppliers to operate in full compliance with laws, rules, regulations and ethical standards of the country in which they operate or provide products or services. We expect our suppliers to share our commitment to ethical conduct and environmentally responsible business practices while they conduct business with or on behalf of us. We employ a third-party risk management ( TPRM ) process to screen for anti-corruption, global sanctions, human rights and environmental risks before engaging with a supplier. Our TPRM process also continuously monitors current suppliers for policy violations and risks. As DE I is instrumental to our culture and values, we are on a mission to create fair and equitable opportunities for all suppliers, including veteran or service-disabled veteran-owned, disability-owned, woman-owned, minority-owned, LGBT-owned and small and disadvantaged businesses. Regulation The FCC regulates many key aspects of our business, including licensing, construction, the operation and use of our network, modifications of our network, control and ownership of our licenses and authorizations, the sale, transfer and acquisition of certain licenses, domestic roaming arrangements and interconnection agreements, pursuant to its authority under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended ( Communications Act ). The FCC has a number of complex requirements that affect our operations and pending proceedings regarding additional or modified requirements that could increase our costs or diminish our revenues. For example, the FCC has rules regarding provision of 911 and E-911 services, porting telephone numbers, interconnection, roaming, internet openness or net neutrality, disabilities access, privacy and cybersecurity, consumer protection and the universal service and Lifeline programs. Many of these and other issues are being considered in ongoing proceedings, and we cannot predict whether or how such actions will affect our business, financial condition or operating 9 Table of Contents results. Our ability to provide services and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action or changes to existing laws and regulations. In addition, regulation of companies that offer competing services can impact our business indirectly. Except for operations in certain unlicensed frequency bands, wireless communications services providers generally must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC issues each license for a fixed period of time, typically 10-15 years depending on the particular licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies like us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Furthermore, we could be subject to fines, forfeitures and other penalties for failure to comply with FCC regulations, even if any such noncompliance was unintentional. In extreme cases, penalties can include revocation of our licenses. The loss of any licenses, or any related fines or forfeitures, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the FCC retains the right to modify rules related to use of licensed spectrum, which could impact T-Mobile s ability to provide services. Additionally, Congress s and the FCC s allocation of additional spectrum for broadband commercial mobile radio service ( CMRS ), which includes cellular, PCS and other wireless services, could significantly increase and intensify competition. We cannot assess the impact that any developments that may occur in the U.S. economy or any future spectrum allocations by the FCC may have on license values. FCC spectrum auctions and other market developments may adversely affect the market value of our lic