Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7 . Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 111 Item 9A . Controls and Procedures 111 Item 9B. Other Information 112 PART II I . Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 112 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 113 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 113 PART I V . Item 15 . Exhibits , Financial Statement Schedules 113 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 113 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 114 SIGNATURE 123 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, including information concerning our future results of operations, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, could or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The following important factors, along with the Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, could affect future results and cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: the failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approval for the merger (the Merger ) with Sprint Corporation ( Sprint ), pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement with Sprint and other parties therein (as amended, the Business Combination Agreement ) and the other transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement (collectively, the Transactions ), risks associated with the actions and conditions we have agreed to in connection with regulatory approval for the Transactions, and the risk that such regulatory approval may result in the imposition of additional conditions that, if accepted by the parties, could adversely affect the combined company or the expected benefits of the Transactions, or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions to the Transactions on a timely basis or at all; the risk that the antitrust litigation related to the Transactions brought by the attorneys general of certain states and the District of Columbia will result in an order preventing the completion of the Transactions and the risk of other litigation or regulatory actions related to the Transactions; the exercise by one or both parties of a right to terminate the Business Combination Agreement; adverse effects on the market price of our common stock or on our operating results because of a failure to complete the Merger in the anticipated timeframe, on the anticipated terms or at all; inability to obtain the financing contemplated to be obtained in connection with the Transactions on the expected terms or timing or at all; the ability of us, Sprint and the combined company to make payments on debt or to repay existing or future indebtedness when due or to comply with the covenants contained therein; adverse changes in the ratings of our or Sprint s debt securities or adverse conditions in the credit markets; negative effects of the announcement, pendency or consummation of the Transactions on the market price of our common stock and on our or Sprint s operating results, including as a result of changes in key customer, supplier, employee or other business relationships; the assumption of significant liabilities in connection with, and significant costs related to, the Transactions, including liabilities of Sprint that may become liabilities of the combined company or that may otherwise arise and financing costs; failure to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the Transactions in the expected timeframes, in part or at all; costs or difficulties related to the integration of Sprint s network and operations into our network and operations, including intellectual property and communications systems, administrative and information technology infrastructure and accounting, financial reporting and internal control systems; differences with Sprint s control environments, cultures, and auditor expectations may result in future material weaknesses, significant deficiencies, and/or control deficiencies while we work to integrate the companies and align guidelines and practices; costs or difficulties related to the completion of the Divestiture Transaction and the satisfaction of the Government Commitments (each as defined below); the inability of us, Sprint or the combined company to retain and hire key personnel; the risk that certain contractual restrictions contained in the Business Combination Agreement during the pendency of the Transactions could adversely affect our or Sprint s ability to pursue business opportunities or strategic transactions; adverse economic, political or market conditions in the U.S. and international markets; competition, industry consolidation, and changes in the market for wireless services, which could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain customers; the effects of any future merger, investment, or acquisition involving us, as well as the effects of mergers, investments, or acquisitions in the technology, media and telecommunications industry; 3 Table of Contents challenges in implementing our business strategies or funding our operations, including payment for additional spectrum or network upgrades; the possibility that we may be unable to renew our spectrum licenses on attractive terms or acquire new spectrum licenses at reasonable costs and terms; difficulties in managing growth in wireless data services, including network quality; material changes in available technology and the effects of such changes, including product substitutions and deployment costs and performance; the timing, scope and financial impact of our deployment of advanced network and business technologies; the impact on our networks and business from major technology equipment failures; inability to implement and maintain effective cyber security measures over critical business systems; breaches of our and/or our third-party vendors networks, information technology and data security, resulting in unauthorized access to customer confidential information; natural disasters, terrorist attacks or similar incidents; unfavorable outcomes of existing or future litigation; any changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on the ability to operate our networks and changes in data privacy laws; any disruption or failure of our third parties or key suppliers provisioning of products or services; material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor campaigns, negotiations or additional organizing activity, and any resulting financial, operational and/or reputational impact; changes in accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), may require, which could result in an impact on earnings; changes in tax laws, regulations and existing standards and the resolution of disputes with any taxing jurisdictions; the possibility that the reset process under our trademark license results in changes to the royalty rates for our trademarks; the possibility that we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of others; our business, investor confidence in our financial results and stock price may be adversely affected if our internal controls are not effective; the occurrence of high fraud rates related to device financing, credit cards, dealers, or subscriptions; and interests of our majority stockholder may differ from the interests of other stockholders. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. In this Form 10-K, unless the context indicates otherwise, references to T-Mobile, T-Mobile US, our Company, the Company, we, our, and us refer to T-Mobile US, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial and operational information to our investors using our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We intend to also use certain social media accounts as means of disclosing information about us and our services and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD (the @TMobileIR Twitter account (https://twitter.com/TMobileIR) and through April 30, 2020, the @JohnLegere Twitter (https://twitter.com/JohnLegere), Facebook and Periscope accounts, which Mr. Legere also uses as means for personal communications and observations, and on and after May 1, 2020 the @SievertMike Twitter (https://twitter.com/SievertMike) account, which Mr. Sievert also uses as a means for personal communications and observations). The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these social media channels in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The social media channels that we intend to use as a means of disclosing the information described above may be updated from time to time as listed on our investor relations website. 4 Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business Business Overview and Strategy Un-carrier Strategy We are the Un-carrier. Through our Un-carrier strategy, we have disrupted the wireless communications services industry, by actively engaging with and listening to our customers and eliminating their existing pain points, including providing them with added value, an exceptional experience and implementing signature Un-carrier initiatives that have changed wireless for good. We ended annual service contracts, overages, unpredictable international roaming fees, data buckets and so much more. We are inspired by a relentless customer experience focus, consistently leading the wireless industry in customer care by delivering an excellent customer experience with our Team of Experts, which drives our record-high customer satisfaction levels while enabling operational efficiencies. Since the launch of the Un-carrier in 2013, approximately 53 million customers have joined the Un-carrier movement, and we will continue forward with our customer experience focus, determined to bring the Un-carrier to every potential customer in the United States. Our network is the foundation of our success and everything we do is powered by our nationwide 4G Long-Term Evolution ( LTE ) network, which covers 327 million Americans (99% of the U.S. population) and our recently launched nationwide 5G network. We continue to expand the footprint and improve the quality of our network, providing outstanding wireless experiences for customers who will not have to compromise on quality and value. Going forward, it is this network that will allow us to deliver new, innovative products and services with the same customer experience focus and industry-disrupting mentality that has redefined the wireless communications services industry in the United States in the customers favor. History T-Mobile USA, Inc. ( T-Mobile USA ), a Delaware corporation, was formed in 1994 as VoiceStream Wireless PCS ( VoiceStream ), a subsidiary of Western Wireless Corporation ( Western Wireless ). VoiceStream was spun off from Western Wireless in 1999, acquired by Deutsche Telekom AG ( DT ) in 2001 and renamed T-Mobile USA, Inc. in 2002. In 2013, T-Mobile US, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was formed through the business combination of T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS Communications, Inc. ( MetroPCS ). The business combination was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with T-Mobile USA as the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, T-Mobile USA s historical financial statements became the historical financial statements of the combined company. Proposed Sprint Transactions On April 29, 2018, we entered into the Business Combination Agreement with Sprint to merge in an all-stock transaction at a fixed exchange ratio of 0.10256 shares of T-Mobile common stock for each share of Sprint common stock, or 9.75 shares of Sprint common stock for each share of T-Mobile common stock. If the Merger closes, the combined company will be named T-Mobile, and as a result of the Merger, is expected to be able to build upon our recently launched foundational 5G network of 600 MHz spectrum to deliver transformational broad, deep and nationwide 5G for all, accelerate innovation and increase competition in the U.S. wireless, video and broadband industries. If the Merger closes, we expect to be able to combine Sprint s 2.5 GHz mid-band spectrum with our foundational layer of 5G and millimeter-wave spectrum, completing the layer cake of spectrum and providing customers with an unmatched 5G experience at lower prices. The consummation of the Merger remains subject to certain closing conditions, as well as pending judicial and regulatory proceedings. We expect the Merger will be permitted to close in early 2020. For more information regarding our Business Combination Agreement, see Note 2 Business Combinations of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business We provide wireless services to 86.0 million postpaid, prepaid and wholesale customers and generate revenue by providing affordable wireless communications services to these customers, as well as a wide selection of wireless devices and accessories. Our most significant expenses relate to acquiring and retaining high-quality customers, providing a full range of devices, compensating employees, and operating and expanding our network. We provide service, devices and accessories across our flagship brands, T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile, through our owned and operated retail stores, as well as through our 5 Table of Contents websites (www.T-Mobile.com and www.metrobyt-mobile.com), T-Mobile app and customer care channels. In addition, we sell devices to dealers and other third-party distributors for resale through independent third-party retail outlets and a variety of third-party websites. The information on our websites is not part of this Form 10-K. See Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Customers We provide wireless communications services to three primary categories of customers: Branded postpaid customers generally include customers who are qualified to pay after receiving wireless communications services utilizing phones, wearables, DIGITS or other connected devices which includes tablets and SyncUp DRIVE ; Branded prepaid customers generally include customers who pay for wireless communications services in advance. Our branded prepaid customers include customers of T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile; and Wholesale customers include Machine-to-Machine ( M2M ) and Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) customers that operate on our network but are managed by wholesale partners. We generate the majority of our service revenues by providing wireless communications services to branded postpaid and branded prepaid customers. Our ability to acquire and retain branded postpaid and prepaid customers is important to our business in the generation of service revenues, equipment revenues and other revenues. In 2019, our service revenues generated by providing wireless communications services by customer category were: 67% Branded postpaid customers; 28% Branded prepaid customers; and 5% Wholesale customers and Roaming and other services. Starting with the three months ended March 31, 2020, we plan to discontinue reporting wholesale customers and instead focus on branded customers and wholesale revenues, which we consider more relevant than the number of wholesale customers given the expansion of M2M and Internet of Things ( IoT ) products. All of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 were earned in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Services and Products We provide wireless communications services through a variety of service plan options. We also offer a wide selection of wireless devices, including smartphones, wearables, tablets and other mobile communication devices, which are manufactured by various suppliers. Our primary service plan offering, which allows customers to subscribe for wireless communications services separately from the purchase of a device, is our signature Magenta plan ( Magenta ) and is packed with exclusive benefits, including unlimited talk, text and smartphone data on our network, free stuff, discounts, and more every week from T-Mobile Tuesdays and Team of Experts, our dedicated customer care team. Customers also have the ability to choose additional features for an additional cost on Magenta Plus. We also offer an Essentials rate plan, for customers who want the basics, as well as specific rate plans to qualifying customers, including Unlimited 55+, Military, First Responder, and Business. Our device options for qualifying customers on Magenta, and previously on T-Mobile ONE and Simple Choice plans, include: The option of financing all or a portion of the individual device or accessory purchase price at the time of sale over an installment period of up to 36 or 12 months, respectively, using an Equipment Installment Plan ("EIP"); For qualifying customers who finance their initial device with an EIP, an option to enroll in our Just Upgrade My Phone ( JUMP! ) program to later upgrade their device; and The option to lease a device over a period of up to 18 months and upgrade it for a new device up to one time per month with JUMP! On Demand . 6 Table of Contents 5G In December 2019, T-Mobile launched America s first nationwide 5G network, including prepaid 5G with Metro by T-Mobile, covering more than 200 million people and more than 5,000 cities and towns across the United States with 5G. In addition, we introduced two new 600 MHz 5G capable superphones, the exclusive OnePlus 7T Pro 5G McLaren and the Samsung Galaxy Note10+ 5G and anticipate offering an industry-leading smartphone portfolio built to work on nationwide 5G in 2020. This 5G network is our foundational layer of 5G coverage on 600 MHz low-band spectrum. T-Mobile s 5G network is not just bigger, it s better. T-Mobile s 5G is based on real, standards-based 5G and covers more than 60% of the population across more than 1 million square miles. T-Mobile s 5G network works indoors and is available to anyone with a capable device. Spectrum Position We provide wireless communications services utilizing mid-band spectrum licenses, such as Advanced Wireless Services ( AWS ) and Personal Communications Service ( PCS ), low-band spectrum licenses utilizing our 600 MHz and 700 MHz spectrum, and mmWave spectrum. We owned an average of 111 MHz of spectrum nationwide as of December 31, 2019, not including mmWave spectrum. The spectrum comprises an average of 31 MHz in the 600 MHz band, 10 MHz in the 700 MHz band, 29 MHz in the 1900 MHz PCS band and 41 MHz in the AWS band. We have cleared 600 MHz spectrum covering approximately 275 million POPs as of December 31, 2019 and expect to clear the remaining 600 MHz spectrum POPs in 2020. We continue our deployment of LTE on 600 MHz spectrum using 5G-ready equipment. As of December 31, 2019, we were live with 4G LTE in nearly 8,900 cities and towns in 49 states and Puerto Rico covering 1.5 million square miles and 248 million POPs. Combining 600 and 700 MHz spectrum, we have deployed 4G LTE in low-band spectrum to 316 million POPs. Currently, more than 33 million devices on T-Mobile s network are compatible with 600 MHz spectrum. On June 3, 2019, the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) announced the results of Auctions 101 (28 GHz spectrum) and 102 (24 GHz spectrum). In the combined auctions, T-Mobile spent $842 million to more than quadruple its nationwide average total mmWave spectrum holdings from 104 MHz to 471 MHz. We will evaluate future spectrum purchases in current and upcoming auctions and in the secondary market to further augment our current spectrum position. We are not aware of any such spectrum purchase options that come close to matching the efficiencies and synergies possible from the Merger. Network Coverage Growth We continue to expand our coverage breadth and covered 327 million people with 4G LTE as of December 31, 2019; Our nationwide 5G network covered more than 200 million people as of December 31, 2019; and As of December 31, 2019, we had equipment deployed on approximately 66,000 macro cell sites and 25,000 small cell/distributed antenna system sites. Network Capacity Growth Due to industry spectrum limitations (especially in mid-band), we continue to make efforts to expand our capacity and increase the quality of our network through the re-farming of existing spectrum and implementation of new technologies including Voice over LTE ( VoLTE ), Carrier Aggregation, 4x4 multiple-input and multiple-output ( MIMO ), 256 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation ( QAM ) and Licensed Assisted Access ( LAA ). VoLTE comprised 90% of total voice calls in the fourth quarter of 2019, compared to 87% in the fourth quarter of 2018. Carrier aggregation is live for our customers in 969 markets as of December 31, 2019, up from 923 markets as of December 31, 2018. 4x4 MIMO is currently available in 708 markets as of December 31, 2019, up from 564 markets as of December 31, 2018. 7 Table of Contents Our customers have 256 QAM available across the Un-carrier's entire 4G LTE footprint. We are the first carrier globally to have rolled out the combination of carrier aggregation, 4x4 MIMO and 256 QAM. This trifecta of standards has been rolled out to 701 markets as of December 31, 2019, up from 549 markets as of December 31, 2018. LAA has been deployed to 30 cities including Atlanta, Austin, Chicago, Denver, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, Sacramento, San Diego, Seattle, and Washington DC. Competition The wireless communications services industry is highly competitive. We are the third largest provider of postpaid service plans and the second largest provider of prepaid service plans in the U.S. as measured by customers. Our competitors include other national carriers, such as AT T Inc. ( AT T ), Verizon Communications, Inc. ( Verizon ) and Sprint. AT T and Verizon are significantly larger than we are and enjoy greater resources and scale advantages as compared to us. In addition, our competitors include numerous smaller regional carriers, mobile virtual network operators ( MVNOs ), including TracFone Wireless, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Charter Communications, Inc., and Altice USA, Inc., many of which offer no-contract, postpaid and prepaid service plans. Competitors also include providers who offer similar communication services, such as voice, messaging and data services, using alternative technologies or services. Competitive factors within the wireless communications services industry include pricing, market saturation, service and product offerings, customer experience, network investment and quality, development and deployment of technologies, availability of additional spectrum licenses and regulatory changes. Some competitors have shown a willingness to use aggressive pricing as a source of differentiation. Other competitors have sought to add ancillary services, like mobile video or music streaming services, to enhance their offerings. Taken together, the competitive factors we face continue to put pressure on growth and margins as companies compete to retain the current customer base and continue to add new customers. Employees As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 53,000 full-time and part-time employees, including network, retail, administrative and customer support functions. Regulation The FCC regulates many key aspects of our business, including licensing, construction, the operation and use of our network, modifications of our network, control and ownership of our licenses and authorizations, the sale, transfer and acquisition of certain licenses, domestic roaming arrangements and interconnection agreements, pursuant to its authority under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended ( Communications Act ). The FCC has a number of complex requirements that affect our operations and pending proceedings regarding additional or modified requirements that could increase our costs or diminish our revenues. For example, the FCC has rules regarding provision of 911 and E-911 services, porting telephone numbers, interconnection, roaming, internet openness or net neutrality, disabilities access, privacy and cybersecurity, consumer protection, and the universal service and Lifeline programs. Many of these and other issues are being considered in ongoing proceedings, and we cannot predict whether or how such actions will affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to provide services and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action or changes to existing laws and regulations. In addition, regulation of companies that offer competing services can impact our business indirectly. Except for operations in certain unlicensed frequency bands, wireless communications services providers generally must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC issues each license for a fixed period of time, typically 10-15 years depending on the particular licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies like us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Furthermore, we could be subject to fines, forfeitures and other penalties for failure to comply with FCC regulations, even if any such non-compliance was unintentional. In extreme cases, penalties can include revocation of our licenses. The loss of any licenses, or any related fines or forfeitures, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, Congress and the FCC s allocation of additional spectrum for broadband commercial mobile radio service ( CMRS ), which includes cellular, PCS, miscellaneous wireless services and specialized mobile radio, could significantly increase and intensify competition. We cannot assess the impact that any developments that may occur in the U.S. economy or any future spectrum allocations by the FCC may have on license values. FCC spectrum auctions and other market 8 Table of Contents developments may adversely affect the market value of our licenses in the future. A significant decline in the value of our licenses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the FCC periodically reviews its policies on how to evaluate carriers spectrum holdings. A change in these policies could affect spectrum resources and competition among us and other carriers. Congress and the FCC have imposed limitations on foreign ownership of CMRS licensees that exceed 20% direct ownership or 25% indirect ownership through an entity controlling the licensee. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of indirect foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest, but must be reviewed and approved. Consistent with that established policy, the FCC has issued a declaratory ruling authorizing up to 100% ownership of our Company by DT. This declaratory ruling, and our licenses, are conditioned on DT s and the Company s compliance with a network security agreement with the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security. Failure to comply with the terms of this agreement could result in fines, injunctions and other penalties, including potential revocation of our spectrum licenses. While the Communications Act generally preempts state and local governments from regulating the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless communications services providers, certain state and local governments regulate other terms and conditions of wireless service, including billing, termination of service arrangements and the imposition of early termination fees, advertising, network outages, the use of devices while driving, zoning and land use. Additionally, after the FCC s adoption of the 2017 Restoring Internet Freedom (RIF) Order reclassifying broadband internet access services as Title I (non-common carrier services), a 