Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management, Strategy, Governance, and Incident Disclosure 16 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Reserved 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 31 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 32 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 32 Item 9B. Other Information 34 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 34 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 35 Item 11. Executive Compensation 43 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Security Holder Matters 62 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 64 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 65 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 66 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 67 Table of Contents PART I Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements regarding management s expectations, hopes, intentions or strategies regarding the future. Words or phrases such as expects and believes, or similar expressions, when used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company s future operations and prospects, the markets for real estate in the areas in which the Company owns real estate, applicable zoning regulations, the markets for oil and gas including actions of other oil and gas producers or consortiums worldwide such as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and Russia (collectively referred to as OPEC+ ), expected competition, management s intent, beliefs or current expectations with respect to the Company s future financial performance and other matters. All forward-looking statements in this Report are based on information available to us as of the date this Report is filed with the SEC, and we assume no responsibility to update any such forward-looking statements, except as required by law. All forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in