Item 1. Business. 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 51 Item 1C. Cybersecurity. 51 Item 2. Properties. 52 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 52 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 53 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 54 Item 6. Reserved 55 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 56 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 72 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 74 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 74 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 74 Item 9B. Other Information. 75 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections . 75 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 76 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 79 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 79 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 79 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 80 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 89 SIGNATURES Signatures 90 1 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Targa Resources Corp. s (together with its subsidiaries, including Targa Resources Partners LP (the Partnership ), we, us, our, Targa, TRGP, or the Company ) reports, filings and other public announcements may from time to time contain statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are forward-looking statements. You can typically identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by the use of forward-looking statements, such as may, could, project, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, potential, plan, forecast and other similar words. All statements that are not statements of historical facts, including statements regarding our future financial position, business strategy, budgets, projected costs and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include known and unknown risks. Known risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: the level and success of crude oil and natural gas drilling around our assets, our success in connecting natural gas supplies to our gathering and processing systems, oil supplies to our gathering systems and natural gas liquid supplies to our logistics and transportation facilities and our success in connecting our facilities to transportation services and markets; actions taken by other countries with significant hydrocarbon production; the timing and extent of changes in natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil and other commodity prices, interest rates and demand for our services; our ability to grow through internal growth capital projects or acquisitions and the successful integration and future performance of such assets; the timing and success of business development efforts; our ability to timely obtain and maintain necessary licenses, permits and other approvals; industry changes, including the impact of consolidation, changes in competition and the drive to reduce fossil fuel use and substitute alternative forms of energy for oil and gas; downside commodity price volatility from a variety of potential factors that can result in lower activity in our areas of operation; our success in risk management activities, including the use of derivative instruments to hedge commodity price risks; general economic, market and business conditions; the impact of outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics or any other public health crises; weather and other natural phenomena, and related impacts; our ability to access the capital markets, which will depend on general market conditions, including the impact of increased interest rates, the potential for additional rate increases, associated Federal Reserve policies and potential economic recession, our credit ratings and leverage levels, and demand for our common equity, senior notes and commercial paper; the amount of collateral required to be posted from time to time in our transactions; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties to various transactions with us; the impact of disruptions in the bank and capital markets, including those resulting from lack of access to liquidity for banking and financial services firms; changes in laws and regulations, particularly with regard to taxes, safety and the protection of the environment; and the risks described elsewhere in