Item 1 Business 5 Item 1A Risk Factors 17 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6 Reserved 31 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 44 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 74 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 74 Item 9B Other Information 74 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 74 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 75 Item 11 Executive Compensation 75 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 75 Item 13 Certain Relationships, Related Transactions, and Director Independence 75 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 75 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 76 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 76 Signatures 79 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Trimble Inc. ( Trimble or the Company or we or our or us ) is a leading provider of technology solutions that enable professionals and field mobile workers to improve or transform their work processes and drive a more sustainable future. Our comprehensive work process solutions are used across a range of industries including architecture, building construction, civil engineering, geospatial, survey and mapping, agriculture, natural resources, utilities, transportation, and government. Our representative customers include construction owners, contractors, engineering and construction firms, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, energy and utility companies, trucking companies, and state, federal, and municipal governments. For more than 40 years, sustainability has been at the heart of who we are as a company. Positive sustainability impacts are woven into our work, realized both internally and through our customers' application of our technology. Ensuring a sustainable future is one of the defining issues of our generation, and current realities require even more accelerated focus and stepped-up ambitions for our strategic approach and process for managing the material environmental, social, and governance ( ESG ) aspects of our business. We believe our efforts will make us a better and more resilient company positioned to take on our most pressing environmental and social issues while creating even greater benefits for the customers and stakeholders we serve in the months and years to come. We transform the way the world works by delivering products and services that connect the physical and digital worlds. Core technologies used in positioning, modeling, connectivity, and data analytics enable customers to improve productivity, quality, safety, and sustainability. Our products are sold based on return on investment and provide benefits such as lower operational costs, higher productivity, improved quality, enhanced safety and regulatory compliance, and reduced environmental impact, ranging from reduced greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) to reduced water use. Our representative products include equipment that automates and enables increased precision within large industrial machines such as tractors and bulldozers; integrated systems that track and manage fleets of vehicles and workers and provide real-time information and analytics to the back-office; data collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo-referenced information; software solutions that connect all aspects of a construction site or a farm; and building information modeling ( BIM ) software that is used throughout the design, build, and operation of buildings. We focus on integrating our broad technological and application capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. The integration of sensors, software, connectivity, and information in our portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide an information model specific to the customer s workflow. Our strategy incorporates a platform strategy, which we are executing in part by partnering to build ecosystems to better serve our customers. For example, in construction, our strategy is centered on the concept of a constructible model that is at the center of our Connected Construction solutions, which provide real-time, connected, and cohesive information environments for the design, build, and operational phases of construction projects. In agriculture, we continue to develop Connected Farm solutions to optimize operations across the agriculture workflow. In long haul trucking, our Connected Supply Chain solutions provide transportation companies with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, transparency, and sustainability through connected vehicles and fleets across the enterprise. Software is a key element for our solutions and accounts for a steadily increasing portion of our business. Our software products and services range from embedded real-time firmware to application software that integrates field data with large-scale enterprise back-office applications. Many of our software solutions are built on configurable and enterprise-grade scalable platforms that can be tailored to the workflows that our customers follow to implement their customized business processes. Our software capabilities include extensive three-dimensional ( 3D ) modeling, analysis, and design solutions; design and data preparation software; BIM software; enterprise resource planning and project management solutions; cloud-based collaboration solutions; applications for advanced surveying, data collection, and analysis for farm productivity solutions; fleet management solutions for transportation; as well as a large suite of domain-specific software applications used across a host of industries including agriculture, construction, utilities, and transportation. Our software is sold as perpetual or term licenses or as a subscription and can be delivered for on-premise installation or in a hosted environment as Software as a Service ( SaaS ). Our subscription-based offerings are also increasingly being extended into offerings that include both hardware and software, providing a complete customer solution together with customer technology assurance as new generations of hardware become available. We are extending these offerings to run across diverse environments, including cloud environments, and we will continue to focus on delivering our differential value in providing domain-specific workflows and enhancing lifecycle management across our target industries. Our software products allow our customers to optimize their work processes for targeted outcomes, improve their productivity, and gain insight into their projects and operations to enhance their decision-making and to gain maximum benefit from a broad range of other Trimble products and systems. 5 Table of Contents Many of our products integrate real-time positioning or location technologies with wireless communications and software or information technologies. Information about location or position is transmitted via a wireless link to a domain-specific software application, which enhances the productivity of the worker, asset, or work process. Position is provided through a number of technologies including the U.S. Global Positioning System ( GPS ), other Global Navigation Satellite Systems ( GNSS ) and their augmentation systems, and systems that use laser, optical, inertial, or other technologies to establish real-time position. Integration of wireless communications in our solutions facilitates real-time data flow, communication, and situational awareness within sites and between work sites or vehicles and offices. Our global operations include major development, manufacturing, or logistics operations in the United States, the Netherlands, India, Germany, Finland, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and Sweden. Products are sold in more than 150 countries, through dealers, representatives, joint ventures, and other channels throughout the world, as well as direct sales to end users. Business Strategy Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Executing on our Connect and Scale strategy. We continue to focus on executing our multi-year platform strategy. This strategy contains two elements. The first element, Connect, aims to connect more customer workflows, industry life cycles, and solution offerings, so that we can continue to transform the way our customers work. This includes integrating more of our customers data through cloud offerings and making more of our solutions available over time on a subscription basis. Cloud enablement raises the bar with shared, on-demand services that empower network participants to proactively contribute to organic value creation and delivery directly and with fewer intermediaries. When end users interact on a shared, online platform, the overall value that is created increases as the number of end-user participants increases. This network effect means that the willingness of developers, partners, or end users to engage increases as the number of network participants grows, which further enhances the platform experience and end-user value. The second element, Scale, aims to invest in the people, processes, and technologies that are necessary to streamline and standardize our internal processes, provide a seamless experience for our customers as they engage with our connected solutions, and enable us to continue to grow our business efficiently and effectively for many years into the future. Increasing focus on software and services. Software and services targeted for the needs of vertical end markets are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. We generally have an open application programming interface philosophy and open vendor environment, which leads to increased adoption of our software and analytics offerings. These software and services solutions integrate and optimize additional workflows for our customers, thereby improving their work productivity, and in the case of subscription, maintenance, and support services, also provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Professional services constitute an additional customer offering that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential. We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability, and market leadership. Our core industries, such as construction, agriculture, and transportation, are each multi-trillion dollar global industries that operate in demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile and cloud computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users, and compelling return on investment, we believe many of our markets are attractive for substituting Trimble s technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods . Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base. We have over time redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in research and development ( R D ) and acquisitions. We currently have over 1,000 unique patents reflective of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to deliver specific, targeted solutions quickly and cost-effectively to each of the vertical markets we serve. We look for opportunities where the opportunity for technological change is high and that have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Geographic expansion with localization strategy. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy, and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have distribution channels in over 85 countries, and sales are supported by our own offices located in over 40 countries around the world. Optimized go-to-market strategies to best access our markets. We utilize vertically focused go-to-market strategies that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets both domestically and abroad. These go-to-market capabilities include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers ( OEM ), and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Industrial, Caterpillar, and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end users, which provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. 6 Table of Contents Strategic acquisitions. Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring domain expertise, geographic presence, technology, products, and distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. Venture fund investments. In 2021, we announced a newly formed strategic venture fund. With this fund, we expect to invest up to $200 million in early- to growth-stage companies that can accelerate innovation and effectively bring new solutions to our customers and the industries that we serve and would give us an early, inside look and stake in emerging business and technology solutions. Sustainability. The global economy is experiencing a fundamental shift toward sustainability driven through broad stakeholder engagement, with a focus on decarbonization. Historically, through delivering productivity and efficiency gains, Trimble products have delivered sustainability for our customers, and we envision more opportunities to deliver expanded carbon reductions and other sustainability benefits, such as water management in agriculture and utilities, for our customers through our Connect and Scale and the other strategies we have described. Our focus on these growth drivers has led over time to growth in revenue and profitability and an increasingly diversified business model. As our solutions have expanded, our go-to-market model has also evolved, with a balanced mix between direct, distribution, and OEM customers, as well as an increasing number of enterprise-level customer relationships. Business Segments and Markets Our segments are distinguished by the markets they serve. Each segment consists of businesses that are responsible for product development, marketing, sales, strategy, and financial performance. We report our financial performance, including revenue and operating income, based on four reportable segments: Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, Resources and Utilities, and Transportation. For further financial information about our segments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Buildings and Infrastructure The Buildings and Infrastructure segment primarily serves customers working in architecture, engineering, construction, and operations and maintenance. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolios are focused on building construction and civil engineering and construction. Building Construction. Our building construction portfolio of solutions for the residential, commercial, and industrial building industry spans the entire life cycle of a building and is used by construction owners, architects, designers, general contractors, sub-contractors, and engineers. These solutions serve to improve productivity and to enhance data sharing and collaboration across different teams and stakeholders to help keep projects within cost, time, and quality targets. The suite of technologies and solutions we provide to the building industry includes program management solutions for construction owners including software for 3D conceptual design and modeling; BIM software that is used in design, engineering, and construction; enterprise resource planning, project management, and project collaboration for general contractors; advanced integrated site layout and measurement systems; cost estimating; scheduling; and project controls solutions for contractors. The suite also includes applications for sub-contractors and construction trades such as steel, concrete, and mechanical, electrical and plumbing; project coordination; and capital program planning and management. In addition, our Trimble Connect collaboration platform streamlines customer workflows and enables interoperability between Trimble s and other providers' solutions. These solutions for the building industry serve to automate, streamline, and transform work processes across the building construction industry. Our solutions provide customer benefits such as reduced costs, reduced waste and re-work, increased worker safety and efficiencies, faster project completion times, improved information flow, better decision making, enhanced quality control, and multiple sustainability benefits for our customers. During 2021, we announced new developments in several of our software offerings, including: (i) the release of Tekla 2021 Structural BIM software solutions, which include new software features and enhancements to power data-driven, collaborative, and connected workflows across all project phases, (ii) the introduction of Trimble Construction One TM , a connected, cloud-based construction management platform, (iii) the formation of a strategic partnership with Microsoft to drive digital transformation across industries, and (iv) collaboration with One Click LCA to add an embodied carbon assessment tool into Tekla Structures to help customers understand the carbon from the materials they use and help them optimize among early design choices. 7 Table of Contents Civil Engineering and Construction. Our civil engineering and construction portfolio spans the lifecycle of civil infrastructure assets from feasibility and capital budgeting, to planning and design, to construction, through to long-term operation and maintenance. Our solutions serve the key industry stakeholders including the asset owners or clients, design engineers, consultants, contractors, sub-contractors, and suppliers. Our technological suite is employed across the entire project life cycle to improve productivity, reduce waste and re-work, including reduced carbon emissions, and enable more informed decision making through enhanced situational awareness, data flow, data-driven insights and decision support, and project collaboration. At the same time, our solutions can improve worker safety and reduce environmental impact. Our suite of integrated solutions and technologies in this area includes field and office software for optimized route selection and design; software for 3D design and data sharing; systems to automatically guide and control construction equipment such as excavators, bulldozers, wheel loaders, motor graders, and paving equipment; systems to monitor, track, and manage assets, equipment, and workers; and software to facilitate the management of the construction process and for sharing and communication of data in real time. Together, these solutions are designed to transform how work is done within the civil construction industry. The civil construction market portfolio integrates data and information across the entire construction process and across mixed fleets. This includes data from site positioning and machine control systems, construction asset management equipment and services, and various software applications. Utilizing wireless and internet-based site communications infrastructure, our solutions include the ability to track and control equipment, to deploy a 3D model to machines and to track progress of work in real-time, and to reduce re-work. By leveraging our technology, contractors gain greater insight into their operations helping them to lower costs and improve productivity, worker safety, and asset utilization. We maintain a joint venture with Caterpillar, Caterpillar-Trimble Control Technologies ( CTCT ), to develop the next generation of advanced electronic guidance and control products for earth-moving machines. The joint venture develops machine control and guidance products that use site design information combined with accurate positioning technology to automatically control dozer blades and other machine tools. We also maintain a joint venture with Hilti, which focuses on the joint development of measuring solutions for the building construction trades and the integration of data for construction management. During 2021, we announced a number of developments, including: (i) the availability of Trimble civil construction field software globally on a subscription basis, giving contractors the ability to implement and scale Trimble's machine control and construction surveying solutions more easily and with no large up-front costs, (ii) the availability of a new version of Trimble Earthworks Grade Control Platform, which includes support for soil compactors, and (iii) the introduction of Siteworks SE Starter Edition, which is an entry-level, easy-to-use construction surveying software solution. We sell and distribute our products in the Building and Infrastructure segment through both a direct sales force and global networks of independent dealers with expertise and customer relationships in the respective markets, including SITECH Technology dealers, which serve the civil construction industry, and BuildingPoint dealers, which serve the building construction industry. We also sell many of our software solutions through our own direct sales force. Competitors in this segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser, or GNSS positioning products as well as companies that produce software specific to the construction process. As we extend our software and services offerings to cover the full set of construction life cycle management solutions used by construction owners, designers, and construction companies, we increasingly compete with large established companies that offer similar systems across all industries. We compete principally on the basis of innovation, differentiated products, domain expertise, service, quality, and geographic reach. 8 Table of Contents Geospatial The Geospatial segment primarily serves customers working in surveying, engineering, and government. Within this segment our most substantial product portfolios are focused on surveying and geospatial and geographic information systems ( GIS ). Surveying and Geospatial. Through our surveying product portfolio, professional surveyors and engineers provide services to the construction, engineering, mining, oil and gas, energy and utilities, government, and land management sectors. Our survey solutions replace less productive conventional methods of surveying, mapping, 2D or 3D modeling, monitoring, measurement, reporting, and analysis. Our suite of solutions includes field-based data collection systems and field software, real time communications systems, and back-office software for data processing, modeling, monitoring, reporting, and analysis. Our field-based technologies are used in handheld, land mobile, and airborne applications and incorporate technologies such as mobile application software, high precision GNSS, robotic measurement systems, inertial positioning, 3D laser scanning, digital imaging, and optical or laser measurement. We maintain a joint venture with Nikon, which focuses on the design and manufacture in Japan of surveying instruments including mechanical total stations and related products. Our office-based products include software for planning, data processing and editing, quality control, 3D modeling, intelligent data analysis and feature extraction, deformation monitoring, project reporting, and data export. Our customers in this area gain benefits from the use of our products including significantly improved productivity in both field and office activities, improved safety through non-contact measurement and detection of potentially dangerous ground or structure movement, and improved data flow that enables better decision making. Geographic Information Systems . Our GIS product line collects authoritative field data and integrates that data into GIS databases. Our handheld data collection systems allow users to efficiently and accurately log positions and descriptive information about their assets, ensure the integrity and accuracy of GIS information, and ultimately enable better decision-making. Through a combination of wireless technologies and software solutions, fieldwork results are seamlessly delivered to back-office GIS systems, while mobile workers can access relevant GIS information remotely. This capability provides significant advantages to users, including improved productivity, accuracy, and access to information in the field. During 2021, we announced a number of new developments, including: (i) the introduction of the Trimble R750 GNSS Modular Receiver, a connected base station for use in civil construction, geospatial, and agricultural applications, (ii) the launch of the Trimble DA2 GNSS receiver for the Trimble Catalyst positioning service, (iii) the introduction of the MX50 mobile mapping system for asset management and mapping, (iv) the introduction of the Trimble SX12 Scanning Total Station, which is the next iteration of our 3D scanning total station, and (v) the introduction of the FOCUS 50 high-performance robotic total station under the Spectra brand. As of 2021, we also offer our key software packages: Trimble Business Center for the office and Trimble Access for the field both offered under term and perpetual licenses, which provides our customers flexible options. We sell and distribute our products in the Geospatial segment primarily through a global network of independent dealers and business partners. Major competitors in this segment are typically survey instrument companies that provide software-driven 3D measurement and imaging solutions. We compete principally on the basis of innovation, differentiated products, integrated workflow solutions, domain expertise, service, quality, and geographic reach. Resources and Utilities The Resources and Utilities segment primarily serves customers working in agriculture, forestry, and utilities. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolio addresses the agriculture market. Our precision agriculture products and services consist of guidance and positioning systems, including autonomous steering systems, automated and variable-rate application and technology systems, and information management solutions that enable farmers and their partners to improve crop performance, profitability, and environmental quality. Our precision agriculture solutions can assist farmers throughout every step of their farming process beginning with land preparation and continuing through the planting, nutrient, pest management, and harvesting phases of a crop cycle. We provide manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivating, and harvesting applications. The benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation, higher yields, and lower consumption of fuel and chemicals, lower carbon footprint, and improved soil health than conventional equipment. In addition, we provide solutions to automate application of pesticide and seeding. Our water solutions help farmers minimize their water costs and distribute water more efficiently and include applications for leveling agricultural fields for irrigation and aligning drainage systems to better manage water flow in fields. Software solutions that use data to enhance farm productivity are an increasing focus in our agriculture business. Our agricultural software is used by farmers to help integrate all of the information on the farm, and is also used by advisors, suppliers, and purchasers to share information to help improve efficiencies. Our agricultural software enables farmers to make more informed decisions leading to higher yields, better quality crops, increased profitability, and increased environmental sustainability. 9 Table of Contents For many of our end-market applications and customer needs, the positional accuracy that can be derived from GNSS satellite signals alone is insufficient. In these applications, higher levels of positional accuracy are required. For these situations, we provide an augmentation service that improves the positional accuracy that is available to the customer; thereby, enabling higher levels of precision and automation in work processes that are conducted in the field. This service is provided by Trimble Positioning Services and is available in a variety of formats and accuracy levels, depending on the relevant application's specific needs. Trimble Positioning Services serves customers in a variety of end markets, including agriculture, construction, geospatial, and other markets, with a majority of its customers being in agriculture. During 2021, we announced a number of new developments, including: (i) significant enhancements to the Trimble Centerpoint RTX correction service, giving farmers the ease of use of 