Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 46 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B Other Information 85 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11 Executive Compensation 86 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 86 Item 13 Certain Relationships, Related Transactions, and Director Independence 86 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 86 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 87 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 87 Signatures 88 5 PART I Item 1. Business Trimble Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a leading provider of technology solutions that enable professionals and field mobile workers to improve or transform their work processes. Our comprehensive work process solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, survey, construction, geospatial, government, natural resources, transportation, and utilities. Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, owners, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, trucking companies, energy, utility companies, and state, federal, and municipal governments. We transform the way the world works by delivering products and services that connect the physical and digital worlds. Core technologies used in positioning, modeling, connectivity, and data analytics enable customers to improve productivity, quality, safety, and sustainability. Our products are sold based on return on investment and provide benefits such as lower operational costs, higher productivity, improved quality, enhanced safety and regulatory compliance, and reduced environmental impact. Representative products include equipment that automates and enables increased precision within large industrial equipment such as tractors and bulldozers; integrated systems that track and manage fleets of vehicles and workers and provide real-time information and analytics to the back-office; data collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo-referenced information; software solutions that connect all aspects of a construction site or a farm; and building information modeling ("BIM") software that is used throughout the design, build, and operation of buildings. We focus on integrating our broad technological and application capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. The integration of sensors, software, connectivity, and information in our portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide an information model specific to the customer s workflow. For example, in construction, our strategy is centered on the concept of a constructible model that is at the center of our Connected Construction solutions, which provides real-time, connected, and cohesive information environments for the design, build, and operational phases of construction projects. In agriculture, we continue to develop Connected Farm solutions to optimize operations across the agriculture workflow. In long haul trucking, our Connected Fleet solutions provide transportation companies with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, and transparency through connected vehicles and fleets across the enterprise. Many of our products integrate real-time positioning or location technologies with wireless communications and software or information technologies. Information about location or position is transmitted via a wireless link to a domain-specific software application, which enhances the productivity of the worker, asset, or work process. Position is provided through a number of technologies including the Global Positioning System ("GPS"), other Global Navigation Satellite Systems ("GNSS") and their augmentation systems, and systems that use laser, optical, inertial, or other technologies to establish real-time position. Integration of wireless communications in our solutions facilitates real-time data flow, communication, and situational awareness within sites and between work sites or vehicles and offices. Software is a key element of most of our solutions and accounts for a steadily increasing portion of our business. Our software products and services range from embedded real-time firmware to application software that integrates field data with large scale enterprise back-office applications. Many of our software solutions are built on configurable and enterprise grade scalable platforms that can be tailored to the workflows that our customers follow to implement their customized business processes. Our software capabilities include extensive 3-D modeling, analysis and design solutions, design and data preparation software, BIM software, enterprise resource planning and project management solutions, cloud-based collaboration solutions, applications for advanced surveying and geospatial data collection and analysis, farm productivity solutions, fleet management solutions for transportation, as well as a large suite of domain-specific software applications used across a host of industries including agriculture, construction, utilities, and transportation. Our software is sold as a perpetual license or as a subscription and can be delivered for on-premise installation or in a hosted environment as Software as a Service ("SaaS"). Our software products allow our customers to optimize their work processes for targeted outcomes, improve their productivity, and gain insight into their projects and operations to enhance their decision making and to gain maximum benefit from a broad range of other Trimble products and systems. Our global operations include major development, manufacturing, or logistics operations in the United States, Sweden, Finland, Germany, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, China, and India. Products are sold in more than 100 countries, through dealers, representatives, joint ventures, and other channels throughout the world, as well as direct sales to end-users. Sales are supported by our own offices located in over 40 countries around the world. We began operations in 1978 and were originally incorporated in California as Trimble Navigation Limited in 1981. On October 1, 2016, Trimble Navigation Limited changed its name to Trimble Inc. and changed its state of incorporation from the State of California to the State of Delaware. Our common stock has been publicly traded on NASDAQ since 1990 under the symbol TRMB. 6 Business Strategy Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential - We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability, and market leadership. Our core industries such as construction, agriculture, and transportation are each multi-trillion dollar global industries that operate in demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users, and compelling return on investment, we believe many of our markets are attractive for substituting Trimble s technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods . Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base - We have over time redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in R D and acquisitions. We currently have over 1,200 unique patents. We intend to continue to take advantage of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to quickly and cost-effectively deliver specific, targeted solutions to each of the vertical markets we serve. We look for opportunities where the opportunity for technological change is high and that have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Increasing focus on software and services - Software and services targeted for the needs of vertical end markets are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. Trimble generally has an open application programming interface philosophy and open vendor environment, which leads to increased adoption of our software and analytics offerings. These software and services solutions integrate and optimize additional workflows for our customers, thereby improving their work productivity, and in the case of subscription, maintenance, and support services, also provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Professional services constitute an additional customer offering that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. Geographic expansion with localization strategy - We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have a physical presence in over 40 countries and distribution channels over 85 countries. Optimized go-to-market strategies to best access our markets - We utilize vertically focused go-to-market strategies that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets both domestically and abroad. These go-to-market capabilities include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers ("OEM"), and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Global, Caterpillar, and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end-users, which provides us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. Strategic acquisitions - Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring domain expertise, technology, products, or distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. Business Segments and Markets Our segments are distinguished by the markets they serve. Each segment consists of businesses that are responsible for product development, marketing, sales, strategy, and financial performance. We report our financial performance, including revenue and operating income, based on four reportable segments: Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, Resources and Utilities, and Transportation. For further financial information about our segments, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Buildings and Infrastructure The Buildings and Infrastructure segment primarily serves architects, engineers, contractors, owners, and operators. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolios are focused on building construction and civil engineering and construction. Building Construction. The Trimble building construction portfolio of solutions for the commercial and industrial building industry spans the entire life cycle of a building and is used by owners, architects, designers, general contractors, sub-contractors, engineers, and facility owners or lessees. These solutions serve to improve productivity and to enhance data sharing and collaboration across different teams and stakeholders to help keep projects within cost, time, and quality targets. The suite of technologies and solutions we provide to the building industry includes program management solutions for owners, software for 3D conceptual design and modeling, BIM software that is used in design, engineering, and construction, enterprise resource planning and project management and project collaboration for general contractors, advanced integrated site layout and measurement systems, cost estimating, scheduling, and project controls solutions for contractors. The suite also includes applications for sub-contractors and construction trades such as steel, concrete and mechanical, electrical and plumbing, and an integrated workplace management services ("IWMS") software suite for real estate management, project coordination, and capital program planning and management. In addition, 7 Trimble s Connect collaboration platform streamlines customer workflows and enables interoperability between Trimble s and other providers' solutions. These solutions for the building industry serve to automate, streamline, and transform work processes across the building construction industry. Our solutions provide customer benefits such as reduced costs, reduced waste and re-work, increased worker safety and efficiencies, faster project completion times, improved information flow, better decision making, and enhanced quality control and sustainability. During 2019, we announced advances in several of our software packages and solutions. Civil Engineering and Construction. Before dirt is ever moved in civil construction, feasibility, design, and scheduling are critical steps to site construction. Trimble provides the civil engineering and construction industry with a continuum of field solutions, software solutions, and services at every stage of the project - from planning and design, to construction, operation, and maintenance. Our civil construction solutions are used in civil infrastructure such as roads, railways, airports, land management, marine construction, and landfills. Our solutions are used across the entire project life cycle to improve productivity, reduce waste and re-work, and enable more informed decision making through enhanced situational awareness, data flow, and project collaboration. At the same time, our solutions can improve worker safety and reduce environmental impact. Our suite of integrated solutions and technologies in this area includes field and office software for optimized route selection and design, systems to automatically guide and control construction equipment such as excavators, bulldozers, wheel loaders, motor graders, and paving equipment, systems to monitor, track, and manage assets, equipment, and workers, and software to facilitate the sharing and communication of data in real time. Together, these solutions are designed to transform how work is done within the civil construction industry. The civil construction market portfolio integrates data and information across the entire construction process and across mixed fleets. This includes data from site positioning and machine control systems, construction asset management equipment and services, and various software applications. Utilizing wireless and internet-based site communications infrastructure, our solutions include the ability to track and control equipment, perform remote machine diagnostics, and reduce re-work. By leveraging the Trimble technology, contractors gain greater insight into their operations, helping them to lower costs and improve productivity, worker safety, and asset utilization. A joint venture with Caterpillar, Caterpillar-Trimble Control Technologies ("CTCT"), was formed in 2002 to develop the next generation of advanced electronic guidance and control products for earthmoving machines. The joint venture develops machine control and guidance products that use site design information combined with accurate positioning technology to automatically control dozer blades and other machine tools. Caterpillar generally offers joint venture products as a factory-installed option, while Trimble focuses on the aftermarket with products for mixed fleets of earthmoving machines from Caterpillar and other equipment manufacturers to allow improved management of construction sites and projects. During 2019, we announced a number of developments, including the launch of an e-commerce platform for pre-owned Trimble products, and new collaborations with multiple OEMs intended to improve the interoperability of technologies and data for civil engineering and construction projects. We sell and distribute our products in the Building and Infrastructure segment through both a direct sales force and global networks of independent dealers with expertise and customer relationships in the respective markets, including the network of SITECH Technology Dealers, which serves the civil construction industry. BuildingPoint is an initiative to form a global network of specialized distribution partners to serve the needs of the building construction industry by supporting customers in the adoption of the Trimble Buildings solutions. We sell many of our software solutions through our own direct salesforce. Competitors in this segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser, or GNSS positioning products as well as companies that produce software specific to the construction process. Our principal competitors are Topcon Corporation, Hexagon AB, and Autodesk. As the Company extends its software and services offerings to cover the full set of construction life cycle management solutions used by owners, designers, and construction companies, we increasingly compete with large established companies that offer similar systems across all industries, such as Oracle. We compete principally on the basis of innovation, differentiated products, domain expertise, service, quality, and geographic reach. Geospatial The Geospatial segment primarily serves customers working in surveying, engineering, and government. Within this segment our most substantial product portfolios are focused on surveying and geospatial, and geographic information systems ("GIS"). Surveying and Geospatial . Through our surveying and geospatial product portfolio, professional surveyors and engineers provide services to the construction, engineering, mining, oil and gas, energy and utilities, government, and land management sectors. Our survey and geospatial solutions replace less productive conventional methods of surveying, mapping, 2D or 3D modeling, measurement, reporting, and analysis. Our suite of solutions includes field-based data collection systems and field software, real time communications systems, and back-office software for data processing, modeling, reporting, and analysis. Our field-based 8 technologies are used in handheld, land mobile, and airborne applications and incorporate technologies such as mobile application software, high precision GNSS, robotic measurement systems, inertial positioning, 3D laser scanning, digital imaging, and optical or laser measurement. We maintain a joint venture with Nikon, which focuses on the design and manufacture in Japan of surveying instruments including mechanical total stations and related products. Our office-based products include software for planning, data processing and editing, quality control, 3D modeling, intelligent data analysis and feature extraction, deformation monitoring, project reporting, and data export. Our customers in this area gain benefits from the use of our products including significantly improved productivity in both field and office activities, improved safety through non-contact measurement and detection of potentially dangerous ground or structure movement, and improved data flow that enables better decision making. Geographic Information Systems . Our GIS product line collects authoritative field data and integrates that data into GIS databases. Our handheld data collection systems allow users to quickly log positions and descriptive information about their assets, ensure the integrity and accuracy of GIS information, and ultimately enable better decision-making. Through a combination of wireless technologies and software solutions, fieldwork results are seamlessly delivered to the back-office GIS, and mobile workers can also access GIS information remotely. This capability provides significant advantages to users, including improved productivity, accuracy, and access to information in the field. During 2019, we announced the release of a new GNSS receiver, the launch of a new 3D laser scanning system, and the launch of a new high-performance field computer for our Mapping and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) portfolio. We sell and distribute our products in the Geospatial segment primarily through a global network of independent dealers and business partners. Competitors in this segment are typically survey instrument companies utilizing GNSS technology such as Topcon Corporation and Hexagon AB. We compete principally on the basis of robust performance, ease of use, price, interoperability, and interconnectedness. Resources and Utilities The Resources and Utilities segment primarily serves customers working in agriculture, forestry, and utilities. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolio addresses the agriculture market. Our precision agriculture products and services consist of guidance and positioning systems, automated and variable-rate application and technology systems, and information management solutions that enable farmers and their partners to improve crop performance, profitability, and environmental quality. Trimble precision agriculture solutions can assist farmers throughout every step of their farming process, beginning with land preparation and continuing through the planting, nutrient, and pest management, and harvesting phases of a crop cycle. We provide manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivating, and harvesting applications. The benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation, higher yields, and lower consumption of fuel and chemicals than conventional equipment. In addition, we provide solutions to automate application of pesticide and seeding. Our water solutions help farmers minimize their water costs and distribute water more efficiently and include applications for leveling agricultural fields for irrigation and aligning drainage systems to better manage water flow in fields. Software solutions that use data to enhance farm productivity are an increasing focus in our agriculture business. In 2019, we announced the launch of Farmer Core, a new entry-level software subscription that enables farmers to connect all aspects of their farm operation. Trimble agricultural software is used by farmers to help integrate all of the information on the farm, and is also used by advisors, suppliers, and purchasers to share information to help improve efficiencies. Trimble agricultural software enables farmers to make more informed decisions leading to higher yields, better quality crops, increased profitability, and reduced environmental impact. For many of Trimble's end market applications and customer needs, the positional accuracy that can be derived from GNSS satellite signals alone is insufficient. In these applications, higher levels of positional accuracy are required. For these situations, Trimble provides an augmentation service that improves the positional accuracy that is available to the customer, thereby enabling higher levels of precision and automation in work processes that are conducted in the field. This service is provided by Trimble Positioning Services ("Positioning Services") and is available in a variety of formats and accuracy levels, depending on the relevant application's specific needs. Positioning Services serves customers in a variety of end markets, including agriculture, construction, geospatial, and other markets, with a majority of its customers being in agriculture. During the third quarter of 2019, we completed the acquisition of 3LOG Systems, Inc., a supplier of timber management software solutions. The acquisition complements Trimble's forestry business software portfolio and further expands the Trimble Connected Forest solutions, which offer a complete end-to-end ecosystem for forest management, traceability, and timber processing. 9 During the fourth quarter of 2019, we completed the acquisition of privately-held Azteca Systems LLC (dba "Cityworks"), a provider of enterprise asset management (EAM) software for utilities and local government. Cityworks' solutions address the global challenges associated with maintaining and replacing aging utility, transportation, and public assets and infrastructure. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2019, we announced the acquisitions of Cansel Survey Equipment's Can-Net and AllTerra New Zealand's iBase networks. The acquisitions significantly increase the global footprint of Trimble-owned Virtual Reference Station (VRS) networks by adding geographies in Canada and New Zealand. Subscription-based VRS correction services are now accessible to more customers around the world who rely on high-accuracy corrections to increase productivity and reduce operational costs. We use multiple distribution approaches to access the agricultural market including independent dealers and direct selling to enterprise accounts. A significant portion of our sales are through CNH Global and affiliated dealer networks. Trimble distributors provide a premier level of technical expertise, customer service and support capabilities, and operate with a strategy that fosters technology interoperability in mixed fleets used on a farm. Trimble distributors are committed to providing reliable, responsive, and dedicated in-field service and support as well as creating a hassle-free experience for the grower and their advisors when implementing advanced technology solutions. They also provide training to help farmers and advisors gain a better understanding of how to use the technology in a way that best meets their needs. Our forestry and utilities portfolios use a mix of direct sales and indirect distribution. Competitors in the agricultural market are vertically integrated farm equipment and implement companies, such as John Deere and AGCO, and agricultural instrumentation companies, such as Raven. We compete principally on the basis of robust performance, ease of use, domain expertise, customer support, price, interoperability, interconnectedness, and the completeness of our solutions. Transportation Trimble s transportation solutions are multi-modal and provide capabilities for the long-haul trucking, field service management, rail, and construction logistics industries to create a fully integrated supply chain and connect all aspects of transportation and logistics trucks, drivers, back office, and freight. Trimble provides enterprise and mobility solutions focused on business intelligence and data analytics, safety and regulatory compliance, navigation and routing, freight brokerage, supply chain visibility and final mile, and transportation management and fleet maintenance. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolio addresses the transportation market. In the transportation market, we offer a suite of solutions marketed primarily under the Trimble brand. Together, this range of products provides a comprehensive fleet and transportation management, analytics, routing, mapping, reporting, and predictive modeling solution to enable the transportation industry to achieve greater overall operational efficiency, fleet performance, and profitability while ensuring regulatory compliance. Our enterprise strategy focuses on sales to large enterprise accounts. In addition to Trimble-hosted solutions, we also integrate our applications and services directly into the customer s IT infrastructure. The telematics solutions encompass route management, safety and compliance, end-to-end vehicle management, and supply chain communications. The transportation software platform serves as a central hub from which the core operations of transportation organizations are managed, data is stored and analyzed, and mission critical business processes are automated. Our software platform automates business processes spanning the entire surface transportation life cycle, order-to-cash, delivering visibility, control, and decision support for the intricate relationships and complex processes involved in the movement of freight. Trimble products also provide truck routing, mileage, and mapping solutions, as well as a voice guided turn-by-turn navigation solution. The Transportation segment generally sells directly to end-users and OEMs. Sales cycles tend to be long, often involving field trials followed by an extensive decision-making process. Key competitors in this segment include Omnitracs and McLeod, among others. We compete principally on the basis of interoperability, domain expertise, customer support and service, price, innovative product offerings, quality, and provision of a complete solution. 10 Patents, Licenses and Intellectual Property We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We hold over 1,200 unique issued and enforceable patents, the majority of which cover GNSS based technologies and ot