Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 1C Cybersecurity 25 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters , and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6 Reserved 28 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 42 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 76 Item 9B Other Information 77 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 77 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 78 Item 11 Executive Compensation 78 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 78 Item 13 Certain Relationships, Related Transactions, and Director Independence 78 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 78 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 79 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 79 Signatures 82 ii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Trimble is a leading technology solutions provider that enables office and mobile professionals to connect their workflows and asset lifecycles to drive a more productive, sustainable future. With a focus on the industries that feed, build, and move the world, the comprehensive depth and breadth of our solutions is transforming the way the world works, making it easier for Trimble customers to focus on what matters getting the job done right. We innovate at the intersection of the digital and physical worlds with solutions that span the world s foundational industries including building, civil and infrastructure construction, geospatial, survey and mapping, agriculture, natural resources, utilities, transportation, and government. We exist to empower our customers: asset owners, general and specialty contractors, engineers and designers, surveyors, agricultural companies and farmers, energy and utility companies, trucking companies and drivers, as well as state, federal, and municipal governments. Productivity and sustainability are at the heart of who we are woven into our work internally and through our customers application of our technologies. Our solutions provide customers with the ability to improve their work quality while being safe, efficient, and sustainable. More than that, our products enable reduced environmental impact in our markets, ranging from reduced greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions to improved water stewardship. Today s work requires solutions for an interconnected world, no matter the industry. Trimble offers a diverse range of coherent capabilities that connect applications, data, workflows, and mobile technologies to more efficiently orchestrate work, often in mixed fleet environments. Our advanced positioning and autonomous guidance capabilities enable increased precision with large equipment, such as agricultural tractors and construction bulldozers. We offer integrated systems that track and manage fleets of vehicles, improve the driver experience, and provide real-time logistical analytics and insights back to the office. Our connected reality capture systems enable the management of large amounts of geo-referenced information, and our software solutions connect all aspects of a fleet, a farm, or a lane, while our collaborative building information modeling ( BIM ) solutions are used throughout the design, build, and operation of the built environment. We focus on integrating our software application and cloud capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-wide solutions that transform how work is done. The integration of sensors, software, hardware, and data in our portfolio gives us a unique ability to provide detailed insights for our customers to improve their specific workflows. Our strategy is centered on the concept of open industry clouds and underlying common data environments as the nucleus of our connected solutions, allowing all stakeholders to collaborate and make decisions based on the same information. In construction, we connect teams across the design, build, and operational phases of a project. In agriculture, we continue to develop connected farm solutions to optimize operations for agricultural production and protection. Meanwhile, our connected supply chain solutions provide transportation companies and their drivers with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, transparency, and sustainability throughout their connected fleets. Connected software applications and cloud platform services are key elements of our solutions and account for a steadily increasing portion of our business. Our software enhances a broad range of other products and systems to allow our customers to optimize their work toward targeted outcomes and improve their decision-making and productivity. Ranging from embedded, real-time firmware to software that integrates data with large-scale enterprise back-office systems, many of our solutions are extensible and can be tailored by users for customized business processes and workflows. Trimble software capabilities include extensive three-dimensional ( 3D ) modeling, analysis, planning and design solutions as well as a large suite of domain-specific software applications used across industries including construction, geospatial, agriculture, utilities, and transportation. Our software is sold as perpetual licenses, term licenses, or subscription services and can be provisioned for on-premise, and increasingly, hosted as Software as a Service ( SaaS ). We are extending our capabilities to run in multi-cloud environments, while delivering our unique value via domain-specific workflows and lifecycle management in our target industries. Our global operations include major research, development, manufacturing, and logistics operations in the United States, the Netherlands, India, Germany, Finland, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and Sweden. Business Strategy Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Executing on our Connect and Scale strategy. We continue to focus on executing our multi-year platform strategy. This strategy contains two elements. 1 Table of Contents The first element, Connect, aims to connect more customer workflows, industry lifecycles, and solution offerings, so that we can continue to transform the way our customers work. This includes integrating more of our customers data through cloud offerings and making more of our solutions available on a subscription basis. For example, our flagship design and construction platform solution, Trimble Connect, enables entire project teams to collaborate in real-time between the office and the field to make efficient decisions around the same data-rich design model enhanced by our cloud capabilities. Our Trimble Construction Cloud creates a connected data environment for online collaboration, the ability to author unique workflows that connect the digital and physical worlds, and the power to dynamically orchestrate design coordination in the cloud from wherever project stakeholders may be. Meanwhile in our Transportation business, the Trimble Transportation Cloud, for example, provides shippers and carriers with the critical information they need to make more informed bid and contract award decisions, while our Transporeon business creates a marketplace for shippers, forwarders, carriers, and retailers to connect online and digitize their end-to-end transportation management processes. The second element, Scale, allows cloud enablement, which raises the bar with shared, on-demand services that empower network participants to proactively contribute to organic value creation and delivery, directly and with fewer intermediaries. When end users interact on a shared, online platform, the overall value that is created increases as the number of end-user participants increases. This network effect means that the willingness of developers, partners, or end users to engage increases as the number of network participants grows, which further enhances the platform experience and end-user value. Scale also aims to invest in the people, processes, and technologies that are necessary to streamline and standardize our internal processes; provide a seamless experience for our customers as they engage with our connected solutions; and enable us to continue to grow our business efficiently and effectively for many years into the future. Increasing focus on software and services. Software and services targeted for the needs of vertical end markets are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. We generally have an open application programming interface philosophy and open vendor environment, which leads to increased adoption of our software and analytics offerings. These software and services solutions integrate and optimize additional workflows for our customers, thereby improving their work productivity, and in the case of subscription, maintenance, and support services, also provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Professional services constitute an additional customer offering that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential. We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability, and market leadership. Our core industries, such as construction, agriculture, and transportation, are each multitrillion-dollar global industries that operate in demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile and cloud computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users, and compelling return on investment, we believe many of our markets are attractive for substituting Trimble s technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods . Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base. We have over time redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in research and development ( R D ) and acquisitions. We currently have over 1,000 unique patents reflective of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to deliver specific, targeted solutions quickly and cost-effectively to each of the vertical markets we serve. Our patent portfolio is continuously updated with new patent grants that emerge from our investments in research and development. We look for opportunities where the opportunity for technological change is high and that have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Geographic expansion with localization strategy. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy, and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. Products are sold in more than 150 countries, through dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers ( OEM ), and other channels throughout the world, as well as direct sales to end users. Sales are supported by our own offices located in over 40 countries around the world. Optimized go-to-market strategies to best access our markets. We utilize vertically focused go-to-market strategies that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets both domestically and abroad. These go-to-market capabilities include independent dealers, joint ventures including with Caterpillar and Nikon, OEM, and distribution alliances with key partners, as well as direct sales to end users, which provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. Strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, and investments . O rganic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring domain expertise, geographic presence, technology, products, and distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing 2 Table of Contents markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. To further grow and position the Company, we partner with leaders in various fields by investing in early-to-growth stage companies through our venture fund and through strategic formation of joint ventures. In September 2023, we signed a definitive agreement to contribute our Trimble precision agriculture ( Trimble Ag ) business, excluding certain Global Navigation Satellite System ( GNSS ) and guidance technologies, to a JV with AGCO, of which we will retain a 15% ownership stake. Trimble and AGCO s shared vision is to create a global leader in mixed fleet smart farming and autonomy solutions that delivers on our collective strategy to better serve farmers with factory fit and aftermarket applications in the mixed fleet precision agriculture market. T he proposed transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2024. Sustainability. The global economy is experiencing a fundamental shift toward sustainability driven through broad stakeholder engagement, with a focus on decarbonization. Historically, through delivering productivity and efficiency gains, Trimble products have delivered sustainability for our customers, and we envision more opportunities to deliver expanded carbon reductions and other sustainability benefi ts, such as water management in agriculture and utilities. Our focus on these growth drivers has led over time to growth in revenue and profitability and an increasingly diversified business model. As our solutions have expanded, our go-to-market model has also evolved, with a balanced mix between direct, distribution, and OEM customers, as well as an increasing number of enterprise-level customer relationships. Business Segments and Markets Our segments are distinguished by the markets they serve. Each segment consists of businesses that are responsible for product development, marketing, sales, strategy, and financial performance. We report our financial performance, including revenue and operating income, based on four reportable segments: Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, Resources and Utilities, and Transportation. For further financial information about our segments, see Note 7 Reporting Segment and Geographic Information of this report. Buildings and Infrastructure The Buildings and Infrastructure segment primarily serves customers working in architecture, engineering, construction, design, asset management, operations, and maintenance. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolios are focused on building and civil engineering construction, design, capital planning, and asset management. Building Construction. Our building construction portfolio of solutions for the residential, commercial, and industrial building industry spans the entire lifecycle of a building and is used by construction owners, architects, designers, general contractors, sub-contractors, and engineers. These solutions serve to improve productivity and to enhance data sharing and collaboration across different teams and stakeholders to help keep projects within cost, time, and quality targets. The suite of technologies and solutions we provide to the building industry includes program management solutions for construction owners including software for 3D conceptual design and modeling; BIM software that is used in design, engineering, and construction; enterprise resource planning, project management, and project collaboration for general contractors; and advanced integrated site layout and measurement systems, cost estimating, scheduling, and project controls solutions for contractors. The suite also includes applications for sub-contractors and construction trades such as steel, concrete, and Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing ( MEP ); project coordination; and capital program planning and management. In addition, our Trimble Connect collaboration platform streamlines customer workflows and enables interoperability between Trimble s and other providers solutions. These solutions for the building industry serve to automate, streamline, and transform work processes across the building construction industry. Our solutions provide customer benefits such as reduced costs, reduced waste and re-work, increased worker safety and efficiencies, faster project completion times, improved information flow, better decision making, enhanced quality control, and multiple sustainability benefits for our customers. During 2023, we announced a number of new developments including: (i) new versions of our Tekla Structure software for improved user experience such as extended collaboration with BIM model data; (ii) new AI features in Sketchup such as AI-powered image search capabilities to access 3D models on 3D Warehouse, as well as generative AI utilizing text prompts to convert a SketchUp 3D model to a rendered image in seconds with SketchUp Diffusion; (iii) new MEP products including Fabrication Smart Tools for use with native Autodesk users; and (iv) AI functionality for Viewpoint Vista and Spectrum to assist users with injection of PDF invoices. Civil Engineering Construction and Asset Management. Our civil engineering and construction portfolio spans the lifecycle of civil infrastructure assets from feasibility and capital budgeting, to planning and design, to construction, through to long-term operation and maintenance. Our solutions serve the key industry stakeholders including the asset owners or clients, design engineers, consultants, contractors, sub-contractors, and suppliers. Our technological suite is employed across the entire project lifecycle to improve productivity, reduce waste and re-work, including reduced carbon emissions, and enable more informed decision making through enhanced situational awareness, data flow, data-driven insights and decision support, and project 3 Table of Contents collaboration. At the same time, our solutions can improve worker safety and reduce environmental impact. Our suite of integrated solutions and technologies in this area includes field and office software for estimating and job cost management and optimized project design and visualization; software for 3D design and data sharing; systems to automatically guide and control construction equipment such as excavators, bulldozers, wheel loaders, motor graders, and paving equipment; systems to monitor, track, and manage assets, equipment, and workers; and software to facilitate the management of the construction process and for sharing and communication of data in real time. Together, these solutions are designed to transform how work is done within the civil construction industry. The civil construction market portfolio integrates data and information across the entire construction process and across mixed fleets. This includes data from site positioning and machine control systems, construction asset management equipment and services, and various software applications. Utilizing wireless and internet-based site communications infrastructure, our solutions include the ability to track and control equipment, deploy a 3D model to machines, track progress of work in real-time, and reduce re-work. By leveraging our technology, contractors gain greater insight into their operations helping them to lower costs and improve productivity, worker safety, and asset utilization. We maintain a joint venture with Caterpillar, Caterpillar-Trimble Control Technologies ( CTCT ), to develop the next generation of advanced electronic guidance and control products for earth-moving machines. The joint venture develops machine control and guidance products that use site design information combined with accurate positioning technology to automatically control dozer blades and other machine tools. We also maintain a joint venture with Hilti, which focuses on the joint development of measuring solutions for the building construction trades and the integration of data for construction management. During 2023, we announced a number of developments, including: (i) the introduction of Trimble Siteworks Machine Guidance Module, extending the capabilities of Trimble Siteworks Software from surveying and layout to support on-machine excavator guidance and operator assistance; (ii) completion of the first test of a fully autonomous soil compactor on a live jobsite, taking another important step on the path toward Trimble s autonomous vision; and (iii) release of the Trimble DA2 GNSS Smart Antenna for construction surveying as part of the Trimble Works Subscription program, which provides contractors access to construction technology at a lower upfront cost. We sell and distribute our products in the Building and Infrastructure segment through both a direct sales force and global networks of independent distributors with expertise and customer relationships in the respective markets, including SITECH Technology dealers, which serve the civil construction industry, and BuildingPoint dealers, which serve the building construction industry. We also sell many of our software solutions through our own direct sales force, to asset owners and clients, contractors, sub-contractors, and consulting engineers. Competitors in this segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser, or GNSS positioning products as well as companies that produce software specific to the construction process. As we extend our software and services offerings to cover the full set of construction lifecycle management solutions used by construction owners, designers, and construction companies, we increasingly compete with large established companies that offer similar systems across all industries. We compete principally on the basis of innovation, differentiated products, domain expertise, service, quality, and geographic reach. Geospatial The Geospatial segment primarily serves customers working in surveying, mapping, engineering, and government. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolios are focused on surveying and geospatial and geographic information systems ( GIS ). Surveying and Geospatial. Through our surveying product portfolio, professional surveyors and engineers provide services to the construction, engineering, mining, oil and gas, energy and utilities, government, and land management sectors. Our survey solutions replace less productive conventional methods of surveying, mapping, 2D or 3D modeling, monitoring, measurement, reporting, and analysis. Our suite of solutions includes field-based data collection systems and field software, real time communications systems, and back-office software for data processing, modeling, monitoring, reporting, and analysis. Our field-based technologies are used in handheld, land mobile, and airborne applications and incorporate technologies such as mobile application software, high precision GNSS, robotic measurement systems, inertial positioning, 3D laser scanning, digital imaging, and optical or laser measurement. We maintain a joint venture with Nikon, which focuses on the design and manufacture in Japan of surveying instruments including mechanical total stations and related products. Our office-based products include software for planning, data processing and editing, quality control, 3D modeling, intelligent data analysis and feature extraction, deformation monitoring, project reporting, and data export. Our customers in this area benefit from using our products including significantly improved productivity in both field and office activities, improved safety through non-contact measurement and detection of potentially dangerous ground or structure movement, and improved data flow that enables better decision making. 4 Table of Contents Geographic Information Systems . Our GIS product line collects authoritative field data and integrates that data into GIS databases. Our handheld data collection systems allow users to efficiently and accurately log positions and descriptive information about their assets, ensure the integrity and accuracy of GIS information, and ultimately enable better decision-making. Through a combination of wireless technologies and software solutions, fieldwork results are seamlessly delivered to back-office GIS systems, while mobile workers can access relevant GIS information remotely. This capability provides significant advantages to users, including improved productivity, accuracy, and access to information in the field. During 2023, we announced several new developments, including: (i) the scalable and configurable Trimble R580 GNSS Integrated Receiver that includes our industry-leading ProPoint engine; (ii) the newest addition to our scanning portfolio, the Trimble X9 3D laser scanning system; and (iii) the Trimble T10x model 2 tablet for survey and mapping professionals. Additionally, we delivered multiple feature releases in our powerful Trimble Access field software, Trimble Business Center office software, Trimble 4D Control Monitoring software, as well as TerraFlex and TerraOffice enabling productivity gains through improved connectivity, simplicity, and efficiency enhancements for survey, mapping, and construction professionals. We sell and distribute our products in the Geospatial segment primarily through a global network of independent distribution partners. Major competitors in this segment are typically survey instrument companies that provide software-driven 3D measurement and imaging solutions. We compete principally based on innovation, differentiated products, integrated workflow solutions, domain expertise, service, quality, and geographic reach. Resources and Utilities The Resources and Utilities segment primarily serves customers working in agriculture, forestry, and utilities. Within this segment, our most substantial product portfolio addresses the agriculture market, including our Trimble Ag and Positioning Services businesses. In September, we signed a definitive agreement to contribute our Trimble Ag business, excluding certain GNSS and guidance technologies, to a JV with AGCO, of which we will retain a 15% stake. Trimble and AGCO s shared vision is to create a global leader in mixed fleet smart farming and autonomy solutions that delivers on our collective strategy to better serve farmers with factory fit and aftermarket applications in the mixed fleet precision agriculture market. T he proposed transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2024. See Note 4 Divestitures of this report for additional discussion of this transaction. Our precision agriculture products and services consist of guidance and positioning systems, including autonomous steering systems, automated and variable-rate application and technology systems, and information management solutions that enable farmers and their partners to improve crop performance, profitability, and environmental quality. Our precision agriculture solutions can assist farmers throughout every step of their farming process beginning with land preparation and continuing through the planting, nutrient, pest management, water management, and harvesting phases of a crop cycle. We provide manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivating, and harvesting applications. The benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation, higher yields, lower consumption of fuel and chemicals, lower carbon footprint, and improved soil health as compared to conventional equipment. In addition, we provide solutions to automate application of pesticide and seeding. Our water solutions help farmers minimize their water costs and distribute water more efficiently and include applications for leveling agricultural fields for irrigation and aligning drainage systems to better manage water flow in fields. Software solutions that use data to enhance farm productivity are an increasing focus in our agriculture business. Our agricultural software is used by farmers to help integrate all of the information on the farm, and is also used by advisors, suppliers, and purchasers to share information to help improve efficiencies. Our agricultural software enables farmers to make more informed decisions leading to higher yields, better quality crops, increased profitability, and increased environmental sustainability. For many of our end-market applications and customer needs, the positional accuracy that can be derived from GNSS satellite signals alone is insufficient. In these applications, higher levels of positional accuracy are required. For these situations, we provide an augmentation service that improves the positional accuracy that is available to the customer; thereby, enabling higher levels of precision and automation in work processes that are conducted in the field. This service is provided by Trimble Positioning Services and is available in a variety of formats and accuracy levels, depending on the relevant application's specific needs. Trimble Positioning Services serves customers in a variety of end markets, including agriculture, construction, geospatial, and other markets, with a majority of its customers being in agriculture. We use multiple distribution approaches to access the mixed fleet agricultural market including independent dealers and direct sel