ITEM 1. Business 2 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 12 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 24 ITEM 2. Properties 26 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 26 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 Information about our Executive Officers 26 PART II 28 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 ITEM 6. Reserved 28 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 54 ITEM 8. Financial Statements 56 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 90 ITEM 9B. Other Information 90 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 90 PART III 94 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 94 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV 94 ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 94 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 98 SIGNATURES 99 20 Page 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. ("T. Rowe Price Group", "T. Rowe Price", "the firm", "we", "us", or "our") is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to investors worldwide. We are driven by our purpose: to identify and actively invest in opportunities to help people thrive in an evolving world. With more than 80 years of experience, we provide a broad range of investment solutions across equity, fixed income, multi-asset, and alternative capabilities for clients around the world from individuals to advisors to institutions to retirement plan sponsors. We also provide certain investment advisory clients with related administrative services, including distribution, mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans; brokerage; trust services; and non-discretionary advisory services through model delivery. We take an active, independent approach to investing, offering our dynamic perspective and meaningful partnership, so our clients can feel more confident. The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. corporate holding company structure was established in 2000. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "TROW". Our core capabilities have enabled us to deliver excellent operating results since our initial public offering. We maintain a strong corporate culture that is focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance and world-class service to our clients. We distribute our broad array of active investment solutions through a diverse set of distribution channels and vehicles to meet the needs of our clients globally. These vehicles include an array of U.S. mutual funds, collective investment trusts, subadvised funds, separately managed accounts, and other sponsored products. The other sponsored products include: open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S., products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S., affiliated private investment funds and collateralized loan obligations. The investment management industry has been evolving and industry participants are facing several challenging trends including passive investments taking market share from traditional active strategies; continued downward fee pressure; demand for new investment vehicles to meet client needs; and an ever-changing regulatory landscape. It is also a unique time in our industry with a significant amount of money remaining out of the market as investors maintain a shorter investment time horizon and relatively low risk appetite. Despite these challenging trends, we believe there are significant opportunities that align to our core capabilities. Our ongoing financial strength and discipline allows us to respond to these opportunities with several strategic, multi-year initiatives that are designed to strengthen our long-term competitive position and to: Sustain our leadership position in retirement. Access growth of the U.S. wealth management channel through improved vehicle capabilities, technology, specialist sales, and content. Focus on further global growth in select high-opportunity countries where we have existing business by investing more in resources, products, and marketing. Deepen client relationships and renew our individual investor base by innovating and investing in our capabilities to deliver world class service and a differentiated offer to clients. Broaden our reach in the private and alternatives market by leveraging our distribution channels and expanding our investment capabilities. Strengthen our distribution technology to enhance the digital client experience and client reporting. Attract and retain top talent, enable effective hybrid collaboration, and deliver on our expanded diversity, equity, and inclusion goals. Nurture our brand globally and leverage it effectively across channels and geographies. Deliver strong financial results and balance sheet strength for our stockholders over the long term. 20 Page 2 Table of Contents ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT (AUM). During 2023, we derived most of our consolidated net revenues and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates (TRPA), T. Rowe Price Investment Management (TRPIM), Oak Hill Advisors (OHA), and T. Rowe Price International Ltd (TRPIL). Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of our assets under management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. At December 31, 2023, we had $1,444.5 billion in assets under management, an increase of $169.8 billion from 2022. This increase in assets under management was driven by market appreciation, net of distributions not reinvested, of $251.6 billion, offset by net cash outflows of $81.8 billion. In 2023, our target date retirement products experienced net cash inflows of $13.1 billion. The assets under management in our target date retirement products totaled $408.4 billion at December 31, 2023, or 28.3% of our managed assets at December 31, 2023, compared with 26.2% at the end of 2022. The following charts show our AUM by asset class, client type, geography, and account type as of December 31 for the prior three years: Equity Institutional (3) Fixed Income, including money market Retail (4) Multi-Asset (1) Alternatives (2) (1) The underlying assets under management of the multi-asset portfolios have been aggregated and presented in this category and not reported in the equity and fixed income rows. (2) The alternatives asset class includes strategies authorized to invest more than 50% of its holdings in private credit, leveraged loans, mezzanine, real assets/CRE, structured products, stressed / distressed, non-investment grade CLOs, special situations, or have absolute return as its investment objective. Generally, only those strategies with longer than daily liquidity are included. (3) Institutional includes assets sourced from institutions along with defined contribution assets, including assets sourced through intermediaries and our full-service recordkeeping business. (4) Retail includes assets sourced through our direct-marketed business and financial intermediaries. 20 Page 3 Table of Contents United States U.S. Defined Contribution APAC, EMEA, Canada Other Retirement Other Accounts Additional information concerning our assets under management, results of operations, and financial condition during the past three years is contained in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. SERVICES AND CAPABILITIES. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES. Investment Capabilities We manage a broad range of investment strategies in equity, fixed income, multi-asset, and alternatives across sectors, styles and regions. Our strategies are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of investors and are delivered across a range of vehicles. We also offer specialized advisory services, including management of stable value investment contracts, modeled multi-asset solutions, and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools. 20 Page 4 Table of Contents The following tables set forth our broad investment capabilities as of December 31, 2023. Equity Growth Core Value Concentrated Integrated (Quantitative Fundamental) Impact U.S.: All-Cap, Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap, Sectors Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap Large-Cap (Value) Large-Cap (Growth Value, Lower Volatility), Multi-Cap, Small-Cap Large-Cap Global / International: All-Cap, Large-Cap, Small-Cap, Sectors, Regional Large-Cap Large-Cap, Regional Large-Cap, Regional Large-Cap (Core) Large-Cap Fixed Income Cash Low Duration High Yield / Bank Loans Government Securitized Investment Grade Credit U.S.: Taxable Money, Tax-Exempt Money Stable Value, Short-Term Bond, Short Duration Income, Ultra-Short Term Bond Credit Opportunities, Floating Rate, US High Yield US Inflation Protection, US Treasury Securitized Credit, CLO, GNMA US Investment Grade Global / International: N/O N/O Euro High Yield, High Income, Global High Yield Global Government Bond, Global Government Bond ex-Japan, Global Government Bond High Quality N/O Global Investment Grade Corporate, Euro Investment Grade Corporate Multi-Sector Dynamic Suite Emerging Markets Municipal Impact U.S.: QM US Bond, US Core Bond, US Core Plus, US Investment Grade Core, US Total Return N/O N/O Tax-Free High Yield, Intermediate Tax-Free High Yield, Muni Intermediate, Tax-Free Long-Term, Tax-Free Short/Intermediate N/O Global / International: Global Multi-Sector, Global Aggregate, International Bond, Euro Aggregate Dynamic Credit, Dynamic Global Bond, Dynamic Global Bond Investment Grade, Dynamic Emerging Markets Bond EM Bond, EM Corporate, EM Corporate High Yield, EM Corporate Investment Grade, EM Local Bond, Asia Credit N/O Global Impact Credit N/O - Not offered Multi-Asset U.S. / Global / International: Target Date, Custom Target Date Target Allocation Global Allocation Global Income Managed Volatility Custom Solutions Real Assets Retirement Income N/O N/O N/O - Not offered 20 Page 5 Table of Contents Alternatives U.S. / Global / International: Private Credit Leveraged Loans Mezzanine Real Assets / CRE Structured Products Stressed / Distressed CLOs - Non-Investment Grade Special Situations N/O N/O N/O - Not offered We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment management function through substantial internal equity, fixed income, and alternative investment research capabilities. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and U.K. with additional staff based in Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. We introduce new strategies, investment vehicles, or other products to complement and expand our investment offerings, to respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and to meet the changing needs of our clients. A new strategy is solely dependent on our belief we have the appropriate investment management expertise and its objective will be useful to investors over a long period. We typically provide seed capital for certain new investment products to begin building an investment performance history in advance of the portfolio receiving sustainable client assets. The length of time we hold our seed capital investment will vary for each new investment product as it is highly dependent on how long it takes to generate cash flows into the product from unrelated investors or, in the case of certain alternative products, the investment term. Generally, we ensure that the new investment product has a sustainable level of assets from unrelated shareholders before we consider redemption of our seed capital investment in order to not negatively impact the product's net asset value or its performance record. At December 31, 2023, we had seed capital investments in our products of $1.4 billion. We may also close or limit new investments to new investors across sponsored investment products in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing shareholders and investors. At present, the following strategies, which represent about 5% of total assets under management at December 31, 2023, are generally closed to new investors: Strategy Year closed U.S. Small-Cap Core 2013 Capital Appreciation 2014 Distribution Channels and Products We distribute our products across a diversified client base across five primary distribution channels in three broad geographical regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia Pacific ("APAC"). We service clients in 51 countries around the world. Investors domiciled outside the U.S. represented about 9% of total assets under management at the end of 2023. The following table outlines the five distribution channels and products through which our assets under management are sourced as of December 31, 2023. 20 Page 6 Table of Contents Vehicle Retail Institutional Americas financial intermediaries EMEA APAC financial intermediaries Individual U.S. investors on a direct basis U.S. Defined Contribution Global institutions U.S. Mutual Funds x x x x Collective Investment Trusts x x Active Exchange-Traded Funds x x College Savings Plans x x Model Portfolios (1) x x (6) Managed Accounts / Model Delivery x x Subadvised Accounts x x Separate Accounts x x x SICAVs (2) / FCPs (3) x x Canadian Pooled Funds x x OEICs (4) x Japanese ITMs (5) x x Australian Unit Trusts x Private Funds x Collateralized Loan Obligations x Business Development Company (BDC) x x (1) Mutual fund models, . (2) Soci t d'Investissement Capital Variable (Luxembourg), (3) Fonds Commun de Placement (Luxembourg), (4) Open-Ended Investment Company (U.K.), (5) Japanese Investment Trust Management Funds, (6) Provided through our ActivePlus and Retirement Advisory Service Portfolios. Investment Advisory Fees We derive substantially all of our net revenue from investment advisory fees that are earned pursuant to agreements with our sponsored funds and clients. Nearly 57% of our investment advisory fees are earned from our sponsored U.S. mutual funds, with the remaining investment advisory fees earned from our collective investment trusts, subadvised funds, separately managed accounts, and other sponsored products. The other sponsored investment portfolios include: open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S., products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S., affiliated private investment funds and sponsored collateralized loan obligations. Our investment advisory fees are generally computed using the value of assets under management at a contracted annual fee rate or an effective fee rate for those products with a tiered-fee rate structure. For the majority of our revenue, the value of the assets under management used to calculate the fees are based on a daily valuation. The contracted fee rate(s) applied to the fund or account s assets under management will vary depending on the services provided, the asset class, and vehicle. For example, fee rates are typically higher for equities and alternatives as compared to multi-asset and fixed income products. Additionally, fees rates are typically higher for commingled vehicles including U.S. mutual funds, private investment funds and collective investment trusts as compared to separately managed accounts and subadvised funds. Investment management agreements typically provide the ability for termination upon relatively short notice with little or no penalty. Specifically, our sponsored U.S. mutual fund investment management agreements must be approved, and fees are annually reviewed by the Boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940). Additionally, fund shareholders must approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of the U.S. mutual fund agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also earn performance-based investment advisory fees on certain separately managed accounts and affiliated private investment funds. These performance-based fees are recognized when performance returns exceed the stated hurdle at the end of the performance period, which can lead to an uneven recognition pattern in a given year. 20 Page 7 Table of Contents We distribute certain of our sponsored products outside the U.S. through distribution agents and other financial intermediaries. The fees we earn for distributing and marketing these products are part of our overall investment management fees for managing the product assets. We recognize any related distribution fees paid to these financial intermediaries in distribution and servicing costs. CAPITAL ALLOCATION-BASED INCOME. We recognize income earned from general partner interests in certain affiliated private investment funds that are entitled to a disproportionate allocation of income, which we also refer to as carried interest. We record our proportionate share of the investment funds' income assuming the funds were liquidated as of each reporting date pursuant to each investment fund's governing agreements. The income will fluctuate period-to-period and the realization of accrued carried interest occurs over a number of years. A portion of this income is allocated to non-controlling interest holders and is reflected in compensation expense as these holders are also employees. ADMINISTRATIVE, DISTRIBUTION, AND SERVICING FEES. Administrative Services We also provide certain ancillary administrative services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, fund/portfolio accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in our sponsored U.S. mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; trust services; and non-discretionary advisory services. Distribution and Servicing Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services, is the principal distributor of our U.S. mutual funds and contracts with third-party financial intermediaries who distribute these share classes. Certain of the U.S. mutual funds offer Advisor Class and R Class shares that are distributed to investors and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively. These share classes pay 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, out of fund assets, for distribution, administration, and personal services. In addition, U.S. mutual funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that pays a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points. We pay all of the 12b-1 fees earned to financial intermediaries who source assets under management into these share classes and provide distribution, administration, and personal services on our behalf. REGULATION. All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and product shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business if we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us, if we fail to comply, include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines. Furthermore, the regulations to which we are subject continue to change over time, resulting in uncertainty for our business as we must adapt to new laws and regulatory regimes and could significantly increase our reporting, disclosure and compliance obligations, including for cybersecurity and climate-related disclosures. As a global company which offers its products to customers in a variety of jurisdictions, our subsidiaries are registered with or licensed by various U.S. and/or non-U.S. regulators. We are subject to various securities/financial services, compliance, corporate governance, disclosure, privacy, cybersecurity, technology, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist financing, and economic, trade and sanctions laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally, as well as to various cross-border rules and regulations, and the data protection laws and regulations of numerous jurisdictions, including the General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) of the European Union ( EU ) and the California Consumer Privacy Act ( CCPA ). We also must comply with complex and changing tax regimes in the jurisdictions where we operate our business. 20 Page 8 Table of Contents The following table shows the securities and financial services regulator to certain of our subsidiaries: Regulator T. Rowe Price Entity Within the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission - T. Rowe Price Associates - T. Rowe Price Hong Kong - T. Rowe Price International - T. Rowe Price Japan - T. Rowe Price Australia - T. Rowe Price Singapore - T. Rowe Price (Canada) - T. Rowe Price Advisory Services - T. Rowe Price Investment Management - Oak Hill Advisors - Oak Hill Advisors (Europe) - OHA (UK) -OHA Private Credit Advisors - OHA Private Credit Advisors II All entities above are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which imposes substantive regulation around, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, transactions with clients, effective compliance programs, conflicts of interest, advertising, recordkeeping, reporting, and disclosure requirements. State of Maryland, Office of Financial Regulation - T. Rowe Price Trust Company Outside the U.S. Financial Conduct Authority - T. Rowe Price International - T. Rowe Price UK - Oak Hill Advisors (Europe) - OHA (UK) Securities and Futures Commission - T. Rowe Price Hong Kong - Oak Hill Advisors (Hong Kong) Monetary Authority of Singapore - T. Rowe Price Singapore Several provincial securities commissions in Canada - T. Rowe Price (Canada) Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier - T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management S rl - OHA Services S rl Australian Securities and Investments Commission - T. Rowe Price Australia - Oak Hill Advisors (Australia) Pty Japan Financial Services Agency - T. Rowe Price Japan Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority - T. Rowe Price (Switzerland) Serving the needs of retirement savers is an important focus of our business. Such activities are subject to regulators such as the U.S. Department of Labor, and applicable laws and regulations including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). Registrations Our subsidiaries providing transfer agent services, T. Rowe Price Services and T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services, are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. T. Rowe Price Investment Services (TRPIS) is an SEC registered introducing broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. This subsidiary is the principal underwriter and distributor for our sponsored U.S. mutual funds and exchange- 20 Page 9 Table of Contents traded funds, and may also offer and make recommendations for certain funds that are not offered to the general public such as privately placed funds. Investors may open a brokerage account with TRPIS in order to buy and sell securities. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and an affiliate of BNY Mellon, maintains our brokerage s customer accounts and clears all transactions. T. Rowe Price Associates and certain subsidiaries are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and are members of the National Futures Association. Net Capital Requirements Certain subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements, including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies. Each of our subsidiary's net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements as of December 31, 2023. For further discussion of the potential impact of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements, please see the Legal and Regulatory risk factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. COMPETITION. As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other sponsors mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks, and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, and other financial institutions and funds in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our products and services. Some of these financial institutions have greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services based primarily on the availability and objectives of the investment products offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. We have and will continue to face significant competition from passive oriented investment strategies. As a result, such products have taken market share from active managers. While we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will continue to gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management investment products. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to an acquisition transaction or other financial relationships with another entity. HUMAN CAPITAL. At T. Rowe Price, our people set us apart. We thrive because our company culture is based on collaboration and diversity. We believe that our culture of collaboration enables us to identify opportunities others might overlook. Our associates knowledge, insight, enthusiasm, and creativity are the reason our clients succeed and our firm excels. In order to attract and retain the highest quality talent, we develop key talent and succession plans, invest in firm diversity and inclusion initiatives, provide opportunities for our associates to learn and grow, and provide strong, competitive, and regionally specific benefits and programs that promote the health and wellness of our associates, both personally and financially. At December 31, 2023, we employed 7,906 associates, an increase of 0.5% from the 7,868 associates employed at the end of 2022. We may add temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and collective investment fund administrative services. Investing In Our People We seek to help our clients achieve their long-term investment goals. In order to do this, we are committed to helping our associates achieve their long-term career goals. We continuously seek to identify new opportunities for our associates to expand their experience and grow their skills. As a result of our associates developing these skills we are able to promote from within, with more than 35% of our open positions being filled by internal applicants, and 20 Page 10 Table of Contents all of our portfolio managers having been promoted from within. We are committed to the professional growth of our associates through the development of their knowledge, skills and experience, by providing them access to in-person, virtual and online training programs and by offering a generous tuition reimbursement program. We believe a critical driver of our firm s future growth is our ability to grow leaders. Reflecting this, we have held a series of leadership speaker events and offer access to virtual programs focused on leadership development led by professors at leading universities. Hiring Diverse Talent Having a diverse and inclusive workforce and providing an equal opportunity t