ITEM 1. Business 2 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 12 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 ITEM 2. Properties 21 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 21 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 ITEM. Executive Officers of the Registrant 22 PART II 23 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 24 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 48 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 80 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 80 ITEM 9B. Other Information 80 PART III 83 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 83 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 83 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 83 PART IV 83 ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 83 SIGNATURES 87 20 Page 1 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg PART I Item 1. Business. T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to investors worldwide. We provide an array of U.S. mutual funds , subadvised funds, separately managed accounts, and other T. Rowe Price products . The other T. Rowe Price products include: collective investment trusts, open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S., and products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. We also provide certain investment advisory clients with related administrative services, including distribution, mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans; brokerage; and trust services. We are focused on delivering global investment management excellence to help clients around the world achieve their long-term investment goals. The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. corporate holding company structure was established in 2000. Our core capabilities have enabled us to deliver excellent operating results since our initial public offering. We maintain a strong corporate culture that is focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance and world-class service to our clients. We distribute our broad array of active investment strategies through a diverse set of distribution channels and vehicles to meet the needs of our clients globally. Our ongoing financial strength and discipline has allowed us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities and invest in key capabilities. Our investments have been focused on increasing our investment professional headcount globally, expanding our product offerings, expanding our global distribution footprint to strengthen our regional relationships and brand, and investing in new technology and the core infrastructure of the firm. The industry in which we operate has been evolving quickly and a number of headwinds have arisen over the last few years, including passive investments taking market share from traditional active strategies; continued downward fee pressure; demand for new investment vehicles to meet client needs; and an ever-changing regulatory landscape. Despite the headwinds, we believe there are significant opportunities that align to our core capabilities. As such, we have been responding with several multi-year initiatives that are designed to strengthen our long-term competitive position and to: Maintain our position as a premier active asset manager, delivering durable value to clients. Build T. Rowe Price into a more globally diversified asset manager. Extend and leverage our retirement expertise globally while becoming an ever more integrated investment solutions provider. Embed best practices for sustainability and environmental, social and corporate governance throughout the company. Maintain strong processes and controls, which is increasingly important with growing business complexity and regulation. Remain a destination of choice for top talent, with a culture of empowerment, accountability and collaboration. Deliver attractive financial results and balance sheet strength for our stockholders over the long term. Financial Overview / Assets Under Management We derive the vast majority of our consolidated net revenues and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of our assets under management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. 20 Page 2 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg At December 31, 2019 , we had $1,206.8 billion in assets under management, including $682.7 billion in U.S. mutual funds and $524.1 billion in subadvised funds, separately managed accounts, and other T. Rowe Price products. During 2019 , market appreciation and income, net of distributions not reinvested, of $231.3 billion combined with net cash inflows of $13.2 billion increased assets under management by $244.5 billion from the end of 2018 . In 2019 , our net cash inflows included $9.8 billion into our target date retirement products , which provide shareholders with a single, diversified portfolio that invests in underlying U.S. mutual funds or collective investment trusts. The assets under management in our target date retirement products totaled $292.4 billion at December 31, 2019 , or 24.2% of our managed assets at December 31, 2019 , compared with 23.9% at the end of 2018 . The following tables show our assets under management by distribution channel, vehicle, account type, and asset class: (in billions) 2019 2018 Assets under management by vehicle U.S. mutual funds $ 682.7 $ 564.5 Subadvised and separate accounts and other investment products: Subadvised and separately managed accounts 313.8 250.0 T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts 158.7 106.0 T. Rowe Price stable value and variable annuity products 21.4 20.0 T. Rowe Price SICAVs and other funds regulated outside the U.S. 30.2 21.8 Total subadvised and separate accounts and other investment products 524.1 397.8 Total assets under management $ 1,206.8 $ 962.3 Assets under management by asset class Equity $ 698.9 $ 539.9 Fixed income, including money market 147.9 136.1 Multi-Asset (1) 360.0 286.3 Total assets under management $ 1,206.8 $ 962.3 Assets under management by distribution channel Global financial intermediaries (2) $ 623.0 $ 484.0 Global institutions (2)(3) 265.4 211.4 Individual U.S. investors on a direct basis 190.7 159.3 U.S. retirement plan sponsors - full service recordkeeping 127.7 107.6 Total assets under management $ 1,206.8 $ 962.3 Assets under management by account type Defined contribution retirement assets: Defined contribution - investment only $ 510.6 $ 401.8 Defined contribution - full-service recordkeeping 121.0 101.8 Total defined contribution retirement assets 631.6 503.6 Deferred annuity and direct retail retirement assets 186.0 149.9 Total defined contribution, deferred annuity, and direct retail retirement assets 817.6 653.5 Other 389.2 308.8 Total assets under management $ 1,206.8 $ 962.3 (1) The underlying assets under management of the multi-asset portfolios have been aggregated and presented in this category and not reported in the equity and fixed income rows. (2) Includes Americas, Europe Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia Pacific ("APAC") financial intermediaries and institutions. (3) Includes T. Rowe Price investments in proprietary products, assets of the T. Rowe Price employee benefit plans, Private Asset Management accounts, and other. Additional information concerning our assets under management, results of operations, and financial condition during the past three years is contained in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 20 Page 3 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES. Distribution Channels and Products We distribute our products across three broad geographical regions: Americas, Europe Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia Pacific ("APAC"). We service clients in 50 countries around the world. Investors domiciled outside the U.S. represented nearly 7% of total assets under management at the end of 2019 . We accumulate our assets under management from a diversified client base across five primary distribution channels: Americas financial intermediaries, EMEA and APAC financial intermediaries, individual U.S. investors on a direct basis, U.S. retirement plan sponsors for which we provide recordkeeping services, and institutional investors globally. The following table outlines as of December 31, 2019 , the types of products within each distribution channel through which our assets under management are sourced. Americas financial intermediaries EMEA APAC financial intermediaries Individual U.S. investors on a direct basis U.S. retirement plan sponsors - full service recordkeeping Global institutions U.S. Mutual Funds SICAVs (1) / FCPs (2) U.S. Mutual Funds U.S. Mutual Funds U.S. Mutual Funds Collective Investment Trusts Australian Unit Trusts ("AUTs") Separate Accounts Collective Investment Trusts Collective Investment Trusts Subadvised Accounts OEICs (3) College Savings Plans Separate Accounts SICAVs (1) / FCPs (2) Managed Accounts / Model Delivery Cayman Funds Model Portfolio (4) Separate / Subadvised Accounts College Savings Plans Subadvised Accounts Canadian Pooled Funds Canadian Pooled Funds Japanese ITMs (5) Japanese ITMs (5) (1) Soci t d'Investissement Capital Variable (Luxembourg), (2) Fonds Commun de Placement (Luxembourg), (3) Open-Ended Investment Company (U.K.), (4) Provided through our ActivePlus Portfolios, (5) Japanese Investment Trust Management Funds Investment Capabilities We manage a broad range of investment strategies in equity, fixed income, and multi-asset across sectors, styles and regions. Our strategies are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of investors and are delivered across a range of vehicles. We also offer specialized advisory services, including management of stable value investment contracts, modeled multi-asset solutions, and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools. 20 Page 4 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg The following table sets forth our broad investment capabilities as of December 31, 2019 . Equity Fixed income Multi-Asset U.S. International / Global U.S. International / Global U.S. / International / Global Large-Cap: Growth, Core, Value Global: All-Cap, Concentrated, Equity Income, Growth, Value Core Bond Global Aggregate Target Date/Custom Target Date Mid-Cap: Growth, Core, Value International Developed: Growth, Concentrated, Core, Small-Cap, Value Credit Opportunities Global Multi-Sector Target Allocation Small-Cap: Growth, Core, Value International Developed Regional: Australia, Europe, Europe ex UK, Europe Smaller Companies, Europe Core, Japan Corporate Global Dynamic Bond Global Allocation Quantitative Equity: Multi-Cap, Factor Portfolios Emerging Markets Global: Growth, Value Bank Loan Global High Income Managed Volatility Tax Efficient Emerging Markets Regional: Asia ex-Japan, China, Emerging Europe, Frontier Markets, Latin America, Middle East, Africa High Yield Emerging Markets: Corporate, Hard Currency, Local Currency Multi-Asset Solutions Sectors Quantitative Equity: Global Growth, Global Value Stable Value International Developed Real Assets Sectors Securitized Global Corporate Retirement Income Treasury Global High Yield Alternatives Short Duration Global Government Municipal Asia Municipal Ladders Quantitative Fixed: Factor Portfolios We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financials and other information, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our dedicated, in-house research analysts consider tangible investment factors such as financial information, valuation, and macroeconomics in tandem with intangible environmental, social, and corporate governance investment factors. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and U.K. with additional staff based in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, and Switzerland. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, 20 Page 5 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling. From time to time, we introduce new strategies, investment vehicles, and other products to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will introduce a new investment strategy if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its objective will be useful to investors over a long period. In 2019, we introduced six new strategies and several new vehicles and share classes of existing strategies. We typically provide seed capital for new investment products to enable the portfolio manager to begin building an investment performance history in advance of the portfolio receiving sustainable client assets. The length of time we hold our seed capital investment will vary for each new investment product as it is highly dependent on how long it takes to generate cash flows into the product from unrelated investors. We attempt to ensure that the new investment product has a sustainable level of assets from unrelated shareholders before we consider redemption of our seed capital investment in order to not negatively impact the new investment product 's net asset value or its investment performance record. At December 31, 2019 , we had seed capital investments in our products of $1.3 billion . Conversely, we may also close or limit new investments to new investors across T. Rowe Price investment products in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing shareholders and investors. At present, the following strategies, which represent about 20% of total assets under management at December 31, 2019 , are generally closed to new investors: Strategy Year closed U.S. Mid-Cap Growth 2010 U.S. Mid-Cap Value 2010 High Yield Bond 2012 U.S. Small-Cap Growth 2013 U.S. Small-Cap Core 2013 Capital Appreciation 2014 Global Technology* 2017 Emerging Markets Growth 2018 International Small-Cap Growth 2018 * This fund will re-open for new accounts in the second quarter of 2020. Investment Advisory Fees We provide investment advisory services through our subsidiaries to the U.S. mutual funds; clients on a subadvised or separately managed account basis; and other T. Rowe Price products , including collective investment trusts, funds offered to investors outside the U.S., and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. Nearly 70% of our investment advisory fees are earned from our U.S. mutual funds, while about 30% of our investment advisory fees are earned from our other investment portfolios. Ten of our 181 U.S. mutual funds - Blue Chip Growth , Growth Stock , Capital Appreciation , Mid-Cap Growth , New Horizons , Value , Emerging Markets Stock , Overseas Stock , Equity Income , and Institutional Large-Cap Growth - accounted for approximately 35% of our investment advisory revenues in 2019 , and approximately 27% of our assets under management at December 31, 2019 . Our largest client account relationship, apart from the U.S. mutual funds, is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about 7% of our investment advisory revenues in 2019 . U.S. Mutual Funds At December 31, 2019 , assets under our management in the U.S. mutual funds aggregated $682.7 billion , an increase of 20.9% or $118.2 billion from the beginning of the year. Investment advisory services are provided to each U.S. mutual fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the 20 Page 6 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg T. Rowe Price name. The Boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the U.S. mutual funds regularly review our fee structures. The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the U.S. mutual funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund s net assets by its effective fee rate. For the majority of the U.S. mutual funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate. The tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the U.S. mutual funds. If the combined net assets of these U.S. mutual funds exceed $650 billion , the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is 28.6 basis points for the first $650 billion of net assets plus 26.5 basis points for net assets in excess of $650 billion . To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate and the resulting advisory fee rate paid by each fund will decrease. The individual fund rates are generally flat rates that are set based on the fund s specific investment objective. Several funds, including the Blue Chip Growth, Equity Income, Growth Stock, and Mid-Cap Growth funds, have an effective tiered individual fund rate in which their base individual flat rate is reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $15 billion. The New Income and Value funds have their base individual flat rate reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $20 billion. The Capital Appreciation Fund has its base individual flat rate reduced by 10% on net assets in excess of $27.5 billion. The effective fee rates for each of the stock and bond funds on which we earned annual advisory fees of approximately $6.0 million or greater in 2019 , varied from a low of 15 basis points for the U.S Treasury Long-Term Fund to a high of 104 basis points for the Emerging Markets Stock and International Discovery funds. The fee rate of several of the U.S. mutual funds, including the Index funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, does not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee. An all-inclusive fee covers both the investment management fee and ordinary operating expenses incurred by the fund and, as a result, our management fee varies with the level of operating expenses a fund incurs. The funds in the Spectrum Funds series and in the multiple target date retirement funds series that we offer have no separate investment advisory fee; rather, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest. Each U.S. mutual fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer and sub-transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses. We usually provide that a newly organized fund s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other fund expenses, such as those described above, in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured. Additionally, we have contractual management fee waivers for certain U.S mutual funds, including nearly all money market funds, which could occur under certain specified circumstances. Unlike traditional expense limits for newly organized funds, these waivers will not be recovered by T. Rowe Price in the future. 20 Page 7 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg Subadvised and separate accounts and other investment products Our subadvised and separate accounts and other investment products had assets under management of $524.1 billion at December 31, 2019 , an increase of $126.3 billion from the beginning of the year. Other investment products include collective investment trusts, open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S., and products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. We earn investment management fees from these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided and are computed using the value of assets under management at a contracted annual fee rate or the products' effective fee rate for those with a tiered-fee rate structure. The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, end of billing period valuations, or month-end average valuations. In 2019 , approximately 79% of our advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations, 13% were based on end of billing period valuations, and 8% were based on month-end averages. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement with other T. Rowe Price products that pay management fees on a daily basis normally provides for termination with thirty days notice. Our standard separately managed account agreements provide for termination at any time and the refunding of any unearned fees paid in advance. Our standard subadvised client account agreement typically provides for termination with sixty days notice. The following table details the services provided by certain of our subsidiaries based on our non-U.S. global investment products: T. Rowe Price Subsidiary Products Services Provided T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management S rl SICAVs / FCPs Management company T. Rowe Price Australia AUTs Investment management T. Rowe Price UK OEICs Authorized corporate director T. Rowe Price (Canada) Canadian Pooled Funds Investment management T. Rowe Price Japan Japanese ITMs Investment management Our subsidiaries T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price Hong Kong, as well as T. Rowe Price Australia and T. Rowe Price Japan, may also provide subadvised investment management services to those global investment products listed in the table above. We distribute the products listed in the table above outside the U.S. through distribution agents and other financial intermediaries. The fees we earn for distributing and marketing these products are part of our overall investment management fees for managing the product assets. We currently recognize any related distribution fees paid to these financial intermediaries in distribution and servicing costs. In addition to providing investment management services to the U.S. mutual funds, our subsidiaries, T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International offer separately managed institutional investment management and subadvised investment management services to global intermediaries. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company, offers and provides investment management services to our T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts, which are used in the investment portfolios of certain qualified U.S. retirement plans. ADMINISTRATIVE, DISTRIBUTION, AND SERVICING FEES. Administrative Services We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in U.S. mutual funds ; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services. T. Rowe Price Services provides the U.S. mutual funds transfer agency and shareholder services, including the staff, facilities, technology, and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. The U.S. mutual funds contract directly with BNY Mellon to provide mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities, and computation of each mutual fund's daily net asset value per share. 20 Page 8 Table of Contents C l3Q6*4v9%C:Mg T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting and plan administration for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the U.S. mutual funds, the T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts, and funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services also provides transfer agent services to the U.S. mutual funds. The pricing on these transfer agent services is based on basis points of the related assets under management. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some of the administrative services while the U.S. mutual funds and outside fund families compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the respective funds. As of December 31, 2019 , we provided recordkeeping services for $210 billion in assets under administration, of which nearly $128 billion are assets we manage. T. Rowe Price Trust Company provides administrative trustee services. Through this entity, which is a Maryland-chartered limited service trust company, we serve as trustee for employer sponsored retirement plans and other retirement products. T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist investors in staying on track to achieve their financial goals. Distribution and Servicing The Investor Class of all U.S. mutual funds can be purchased in the U.S. on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of directly investing in a variety of equity, fixed income, and multi-asset strategies. The I Class of certain U.S. mutual funds is designed to meet the needs of institutionally oriented clients who seek investment products with lower shareholder servicing costs and lower expense ratios. This share class limits ordinary operating expenses (other than interest; expenses related to borrowings, taxes, and brokerage; and any non-extraordinary expenses) to 5 basis points for a period of time and there are no external 12b-1 or administrative fee payments. Certain of the U.S. mutual funds also offer Advisor Class and R Class shares that are distributed to investors and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively. These share classes pay 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services ("TRPIS"), is the principal distributor of the U.S. mutual funds and contracts with third-party financial intermediaries who distribute these share classes. TRPIS enters into agreements with each intermediary under which each fund is responsible to pay the distribution and service fees directly to the applicable intermediaries. In addition, those U.S. mutual funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that pays a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points. In accounting for