ITEM 1. Business 2 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 14 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 ITEM 2. Properties 24 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 24 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Information about our Executive Officers 25 PART II 26 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 ITEM 6. Reserved 27 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 51 ITEM 8. Financial Statements 53 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 88 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 88 ITEM 9B. Other Information 88 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 PART III 92 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 92 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 92 PART IV 92 ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 92 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 SIGNATURES 97 20 Page 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to investors worldwide. We provide an array of U.S. mutual funds, subadvised funds, separately managed accounts, collective investment trusts, and other T. Rowe Price products. The other T. Rowe Price products include: open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S. and products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. We also provide certain investment advisory clients with related administrative services, including distribution, mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans; brokerage; trust services; and non-discretionary advisory services through model delivery. We are focused on delivering global investment management excellence to help clients around the world achieve their long-term investment goals. The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. corporate holding company structure was established in 2000. On December 29, 2021, we completed our acquisition of Oak Hill Advisors, L.P., a leading alternative credit manager, and other entities that had common ownership (collectively, "OHA"). We acquired 100% of the equity interests of Oak Hill Advisors, L.P., 100% of the equity interests in entities that make co-investments in certain affiliated private investment funds (the "co-investment entities") and a majority of the equity interests in entities that have interests in general partners of affiliated private investment funds and are entitled to a disproportionate allocation of income (the "carried interest entities") for upfront purchase consideration of $3.4 billion in a combination of cash and T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. common stock. The upfront purchase consideration included the retirement of $217.1 million of OHA debt. In addition, the consideration may be increased by up to an incremental $900.0 million in cash as part of an earnout payment starting in early 2025 and ending in early 2027, upon satisfying or exceeding certain defined revenue targets. These defined revenue targets are evaluated on a cumulative basis beginning at the end of 2024, with the ability to extend two additional years if the defined revenue targets are not achieved. The earnout amount will be subject to a proportional reduction if OHA's actual revenue at the end of the earnout period does not meet the defined revenue targets and could result in no earnout payout if OHA's actual revenue falls below 75% of the defined revenue targets. The acquisition of OHA included $57 billion of capital under management, of which $47 billion of fee-basis assets under management was added to our assets under management as of the date of the acquisition. The acquisition accelerates our expansion into alternative investment markets and complements our existing global platform and ongoing strategic initiatives in our core investments and distribution capabilities. Alternative credit strategies continue to be in demand from institutional and retail investors across the globe seeking attractive yields and risk-adjusted returns. Over its more than 30-year history, OHA has generated attractive risk-adjusted returns across numerous market cycles. Its fully integrated team specializes in private, distressed, special situations, liquid, and structured credit and real asset strategies in North America, Europe and other geographies. OHA manages private investment funds, collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs") and other private accounts on behalf of a global, largely institutional client base. OHA has over 300 employees with headquarters in New York and primary offices in London, Sydney, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Fort Worth, and San Francisco. Core Capabilities Our core capabilities have enabled us to deliver excellent operating results since our initial public offering. We maintain a strong corporate culture that is focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance and world-class service to our clients. We distribute our broad array of active investment strategies through a diverse set of distribution channels and vehicles to meet the needs of our clients globally. Our ongoing financial strength and discipline has allowed us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities and invest in key capabilities. Our strategic investments have been focused on increasing our investment professional headcount globally, expanding our product offerings, expanding our global distribution footprint to strengthen our regional relationships and brand, and investing in new technology and the core infrastructure of the firm. 20 Page 2 Table of Contents The industry in which we operate has been evolving quickly and a number of headwinds have arisen over the last few years, including passive investments taking market share from traditional active strategies; continued downward fee pressure; demand for new investment vehicles to meet client needs; capacity challenges with some of our mutual funds and portfolios and an ever-changing regulatory landscape. Despite the headwinds, we believe there are significant opportunities that align to our core capabilities. As such, we have been responding with several multi-year initiatives that are designed to strengthen our long-term competitive position and to: Maintain our position as a premier active asset manager, delivering durable value to clients. Build T. Rowe Price into a more globally diversified asset manager. Extend and leverage our retirement expertise globally while becoming an ever more integrated investment solutions provider. Embed best practices for sustainability and environmental, social and corporate governance throughout the company. Expand our investment capabilities and product offerings, including through our acquisition of OHA. Maintain strong processes and internal controls, which is increasingly important with growing business complexity and regulation. Remain a destination of choice for top talent, with a culture of diversity, inclusivity, empowerment, accountability and collaboration. Deliver strong financial results and balance sheet strength for our stockholders over the long term. Financial Overview / Assets Under Management During 2021, we derived the vast majority of our consolidated net revenues and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Beginning in 2022, investment advisory services provided to OHA-affiliated investment products and vehicles will be included in consolidated net revenues and net income. Previously, in November 2020, we announced our plan to establish T. Rowe Price Investment Management, a separate SEC-registered investment advisor, to support our continued focus on generating strong investment results for clients. T. Rowe Price Investment Management is anticipated to begin operations in March 2022. Subsequent to this date, services related to this investment advisor will be included in our consolidated net revenue and net income. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of our assets under management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. At December 31, 2021, we had $1,687.8 billion in assets under management, including $871.4 billion in U.S. mutual funds, $437.1 billion in subadvised funds and separately managed accounts (including $10.9 billion of OHA separate accounts), $343.3 billion in collective investment trusts and other T. Rowe Price products, and $36.0 billion in private investment funds and CLOs. The acquisition of OHA completed on December 29, 2021 included $57 billion of capital under management (which includes net assets value, portfolio value and/or unfunded capital), of which $46.9 billion of fee-basis assets under management are included in our assets under management as of December 31, 2021. Assets under management increased $217.3 billion from the end of 2020. This increase was primarily driven by market appreciation and income, net of distributions not reinvested, of $198.9 billion and fee-basis assets under management of $46.9 billion that was acquired in the OHA acquisition. These increases were partially offset by net cash outflows of $28.5 billion for 2021. 20 Page 3 Table of Contents The following tables show our assets under management by vehicle, asset class, distribution channel, and account type: (in billions) 2021 2020 Assets under management by vehicle U.S. mutual funds $ 871.4 $ 794.6 Subadvised and separately managed accounts 437.1 400.1 T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts and other sponsored investment products: Collective investment trusts 258.3 199.6 Stable value, variable annuity products, and exchange-traded funds 29.1 28.0 SICAVs and other sponsored funds regulated outside the U.S. 55.9 48.2 Total T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts and other sponsored investment products 343.3 275.8 Affiliated private investment funds and CLOs 36.0 Total assets under management $ 1,687.8 $ 1,470.5 Assets under management by asset class Equity $ 992.7 $ 895.8 Fixed income, including money market 175.7 168.7 Multi-Asset (1) 477.7 406.0 Alternatives (2) 41.7 Total assets under management $ 1,687.8 $ 1,470.5 Assets under management by distribution channel Global financial intermediaries (3) $ 876.5 $ 765.4 Global institutions (3)(4) 403.8 335.9 Individual U.S. investors on a direct basis 244.8 221.7 U.S. retirement plan sponsors - full service recordkeeping 162.7 147.5 Total assets under management $ 1,687.8 $ 1,470.5 Assets under management by account type (5) Defined contribution retirement assets: Defined contribution - investment only $ 557.1 $ 484.6 Defined contribution - full-service recordkeeping 162.6 147.5 Total defined contribution retirement assets 719.7 632.1 Deferred annuity and direct retail retirement assets 382.4 305.0 Total defined contribution, deferred annuity, and direct retail retirement assets 1,102.1 937.1 Other 585.7 533.4 Total assets under management $ 1,687.8 $ 1,470.5 (1) The underlying assets under management of the multi-asset portfolios have been aggregated and presented in this category and not reported in the equity and fixed income rows. (2) The alternatives asset class includes strategies authorized to invest more than 50% of its holdings in private credit, leveraged loans, mezzanine, real assets/CRE, structured products, stressed / distressed, non-investment grade CLOs, special situations, or have absolute return as its investment objective. Generally, only those strategies with longer than daily liquidity are included. (3) Includes Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia Pacific ("APAC"). (4) Includes T. Rowe Price investments in proprietary products, assets of the T. Rowe Price employee benefit plans, Private Asset Management accounts, and other as well as OHA products. (5) The 2020 amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2021 presentation. In 2021, our target date retirement products experienced net cash inflows of $11.3 billion. The assets under management in our target date retirement products totaled $391.1 billion at December 31, 2021, or 23.2% of our managed assets at December 31, 2021, compared with 22.6% at the end of 2020. Additional information concerning our assets under management, results of operations, and financial condition during the past three years is contained in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 20 Page 4 Table of Contents INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES. Distribution Channels and Products We distribute our products across three broad geographical regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia Pacific ("APAC"). We service clients in 50 countries around the world. Investors domiciled outside the U.S., including OHA's clients, represented about 10% of total assets under management at the end of 2021. We accumulate our assets under management from a diversified client base across five primary distribution channels: Americas financial intermediaries, EMEA APAC financial intermediaries, individual U.S. investors on a direct basis, U.S. retirement plan sponsors for which we provide recordkeeping services, and global institutional investors. The following table outlines the types of products within each distribution channel through which our assets under management are sourced as of December 31, 2021. Americas financial intermediaries EMEA APAC financial intermediaries Individual U.S. investors on a direct basis U.S. retirement plan sponsors - full service recordkeeping Global institutions U.S. Mutual Funds SICAVs (2) / FCPs (3) U.S. Mutual Funds U.S. Mutual Funds U.S. Mutual Funds Collective Investment Trusts Australian Unit Trusts ("AUTs") Separate Accounts Collective Investment Trusts Collective Investment Trusts Subadvised Accounts OEICs (4) College Savings Plans Separate Accounts SICAVs (2) / FCPs (3) Managed Accounts / Model Delivery Subadvised Accounts Model Portfolios (6) Separate / Subadvised Accounts Model Portfolios (1) Japanese ITMs (5) Active Exchange-Traded Funds Canadian Pooled Funds College Savings Plans Managed Accounts / Model Delivery Japanese ITMs (5) Canadian Pooled Funds Private Funds Active Exchange-Traded Funds (1) Mutual fund models delivered to a third-party program sponsor, . (2) Soci t d'Investissement Capital Variable (Luxembourg), (3) Fonds Commun de Placement (Luxembourg), (4) Open-Ended Investment Company (U.K.), (5) Japanese Investment Trust Management Funds, (6) Provided through our ActivePlus and Retirement Advisory Service Portfolios. Investment Capabilities We manage a broad range of investment strategies in equity, fixed income, multi-asset, and alternatives across sectors, styles and regions. Our strategies are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of investors and are delivered across a range of vehicles. The alternatives asset class includes strategies authorized to invest more than 50% of its holdings in private credit, leveraged loans, mezzanine, real assets, structured products, stressed / distressed, non-investment grade CLOs, special situations, or have absolute returns as its investment objective. Generally, only those strategies with longer than daily liquidity are included. We also offer specialized advisory services, including management of stable value investment contracts, modeled multi-asset solutions, and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools. 20 Page 5 Table of Contents The following tables set forth our broad investment capabilities as of December 31, 2021. Equity Growth Core Value Concentrated Quantitative Sustainable U.S.: All-Cap, Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap, Sectors Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap Large-Cap (Growth Value) Large-Cap (Value), Multi-Cap, Small-Cap Large-Cap (Growth Value) Global / International: All-Cap, Large-Cap, Small-Cap, Sectors, Regional Large-Cap Large-Cap, Regional Large-Cap Large-Cap (Growth Value) All-Cap, Large-Cap Fixed Income Cash Low Duration High Yield / Bank Loans Government Securitized Investment Grade Credit U.S.: Taxable Money, Tax-Exempt Money Stable Value, Short-Term Bond, Short Duration Income, Ultra-Short Term Bond Credit Opportunities, Floating Rate, US High Yield US Inflation Protection, US Treasury Securitized Credit, CLO, GNMA US Investment Grade Global / International: N/R N/R Euro High Yield, High Income, Global High Yield Global Government Bond, Global Government Bond ex-Japan, Global Government Bond High Quality N/R Global Investment Grade Corporate, Euro Investment Grade Corporate, Global Impact Credit N/R - Not relevant Fixed Income, cont'd Multi-Sector Dynamic Suite Emerging Markets Municipal U.S.: QM US Bond, US Core Bond, US Core Plus, US Investment Grade Core, US Total Return N/R N/R Tax-Free High Yield, Intermediate Tax-Free High Yield, Muni Intermediate, Tax-Free Long-Term, Tax-Free Short/Intermediate Global / International: Global Multi-Sector, Global Aggregate, International Bond, Euro Aggregate Dynamic Credit, Dynamic Global Bond, Dynamic Global Bond Investment Grade, Dynamic Emerging Markets Bond EM Bond, EM Corporate, EM Corporate High Yield, EM Corporate Investment Grade, EM Local Bond, Asia Credit N/R N/R - Not relevant Multi-Asset U.S. / Global / International: Target Date, Custom Target Date Target Allocation Global Allocation Global Income Managed Volatility Custom Solutions Real Assets Retirement Income Alternatives U.S. / Global / International: Private Credit Leveraged Loans Mezzanine Real Assets / CRE Structured Products Stressed / Distressed CLOs - non-investment grade Special Situations 20 Page 6 Table of Contents We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financials and other information, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our dedicated, in-house research analysts consider tangible investment factors, such as financial information, valuation, and macroeconomics in tandem with intangible environmental, social, and corporate governance investment factors. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and U.K. with additional staff based in Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, and Switzerland. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling. From time to time, we introduce new strategies, investment vehicles, and other products to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will introduce a new investment strategy if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its objective will be useful to investors over a long period. In 2021, we introduced five new strategies and several new share classes of existing strategies. We typically provide seed capital for new investment products to enable the portfolio manager to begin building an investment performance history in advance of the portfolio receiving sustainable client assets. The length of time we hold our seed capital investment will vary for each new investment product as it is highly dependent on how long it takes to generate cash flows into the product from unrelated investors. We attempt to ensure that the new investment product has a sustainable level of assets from unrelated shareholders before we consider redemption of our seed capital investment in order to not negatively impact the new investment product's net asset value or its investment performance record. At December 31, 2021, we had seed capital investments in our products of $1.3 billion. We may also close or limit new investments to new investors across T. Rowe Price investment products in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing shareholders and investors. At present, the following strategies, which represent about 10% of total assets under management at December 31, 2021, are generally closed to new investors: Strategy Year closed High Yield Bond 2012 U.S. Small-Cap Growth 2013 U.S. Small-Cap Core 2013 Capital Appreciation 2014 Emerging Markets Growth 2018 International Small-Cap Growth 2018 Investment Advisory Fees We provide investment advisory services through our subsidiaries to the U.S. mutual funds; clients on a subadvised or separately managed account basis; collective investment trusts; and other T. Rowe Price products, including funds offered to investors outside the U.S. and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. Nearly 62% of our investment advisory fees are earned from our U.S. mutual funds, while about 38% of our investment advisory fees are earned from our other investment portfolios. Ten of our 185 U.S. mutual funds - Blue Chip Growth, Capital Appreciation, Growth Stock, New Horizons, Mid-Cap Growth, Large-Cap Growth, Health Sciences, International Discovery, Retirement 2030, and Dividend Growth - accounted for approximately 29% of our investment advisory revenues in 2021, and approximately 22% of our assets under management at December 31, 2021. Our largest client account relationship, apart from the U.S. mutual funds, is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about 7% of our investment advisory revenues in 2021. 20 Page 7 Table of Contents U.S. Mutual Funds At December 31, 2021, assets under our management in the U.S. mutual funds aggregated $871.4 billion, an increase of 9.7% or $76.8 billion from the beginning of the year. Investment advisory services are provided to each U.S. mutual fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price name. The Boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the U.S. mutual funds regularly review our fee structures. The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the U.S. mutual funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund s net assets by its effective fee rate. For the majority of the U.S. mutual funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate. The tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the U.S. mutual funds. If the combined net assets of these U.S. mutual funds exceed $845 billion, the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is 28.1 basis points for the first $845 billion of net assets plus 26.0 basis points for net assets in excess of $845 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate and the resulting advisory fee rate paid by each fund will decrease. The individual fund rates are generally flat rates that are set based on the fund s specific investment objective. Several funds have tiered individual fund rates that reduce their individual flat fee based on certain asset levels of the fund as described in their prospectus. The effective fee rates for each of the stock, bond, and multi-asset funds on which we earned annual advisory fees of $10 million or greater in 2021, varied from a low of 31 basis points for the Short-Term Bond Fund to a high of 104 basis points for the International Discovery Fund. The fee rate of several of the U.S. mutual funds, including the Target-Date, Index funds, and Spectrum funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, does not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee. An all-inclusive fee covers both the investment management fee and ordinary operating expenses incurred by the fund and, as a result, our management fee varies with the level of operating expenses a fund incurs. Each U.S. mutual fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer and sub-transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses. We usually provide that a newly organized fund s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other fund expenses, such as those described above, in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured. Additionally, we have contractual management fee waivers for certain U.S mutual funds, including nearly all money market funds, which could occur under certain specified circumstances. Unlike traditional expense limits for newly organized funds, these waivers will not be recovered by T. Rowe Price in the future. In addition to these contractual fee waivers, due to the low interest rate environment in 2021, we voluntarily waived $57.9 million, or less than 1%, of our investment advisory fees from certain of our money market mutual funds, trusts, and other investment portfolios in order to maintain a positive yield for investors. The firm expects to continue to waive fees through at least the first half of 2022. 20 Page 8 Table of Contents Subadvised funds, separate accounts, collective investment trusts, and other investment products Our subadvised, separate accounts, collective investment trusts, and other investment products had assets under management of $780.4 billion at December 31, 2021, an increase of $104.5 billion from the beginning of the year. This includes $10.9 billion of fee-basis assets under management attributable to separate accounts that were acquired as part of the OHA acquisition. Other investment products include open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S. and products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. We earn investment management fees from these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided, and these investment management fees are computed using the value of assets under management at a contracted annual fee rate or the products' effective fee rate for those with a tiered-fee rate structure. The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, end of billing period valuations, or month-end average valuations. In 2021, approximately 79% of our advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations, 15% were based on end of billing period valuations, and 6% were based on month-end averages. Our standard subadvised client accounts normally pay a daily tiered rate and their agreement typically provides for termination with 60 days notice. For separately managed accounts, the fee is generally based on a period ending value and their agreements provide for termination at any time. Unearned fees paid in advance are refunded upon termination. We currently also earn performance-based investment advisory fees on certain separately managed accounts. These fees are currently immaterial to our total investment advisory fees and are only recognized when the performance condition has been met. This recognition criteria can lead to uneven recognition of performance-based revenue throughout the year. Our U.S. collective investment trusts, sponsored by T. Rowe Price Trust Company and subscribed to by certai