Item 1. BUSINESS The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company principally engaged, through its subsidiaries, in providing a wide range of commercial and personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals. The Company is incorporated as a general business corporation under the laws of the State of Minnesota and is one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back to 1853. The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 485 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and its telephone number is (917) 778-6000. The Company also maintains executive offices in Hartford, Connecticut, and St. Paul, Minnesota. The term TRV in this document refers to The Travelers Companies, Inc., the parent holding company excluding subsidiaries. PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the areas of price, service, product offerings, agent relationships and methods of distribution. Distribution methods include the use of local independent agents, national agent partners, agency aggregators and carrier-based agencies, as well as direct to consumer, affinity and emerging partner platforms. According to A.M. Best, there are approximately 1,130 property and casualty groups in the United States, comprising approximately 2,600 property and casualty companies. Of those groups, the top 150 accounted for approximately 93% of the consolidated industry s total net written premiums in 2018. The Company competes with both foreign and domestic insurers. In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business, including the Company, offer products for alternative forms of risk protection in addition to traditional insurance products. These products include large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance, some of which utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. The Company s competitive position in the marketplace is based on many factors, including the following: ability to profitably price business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and policyholder relationships; ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems; ability to use data and analytics to make decisions; speed of claims payment; ability to provide a positive customer experience; ability to provide products and services in a cost effective manner; ability to provide new products and services to meet changing customer needs; ability to adapt to changes in business models, technology, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which the Company operates; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. In addition, the marketplace is affected by the available capacity of the insurance industry, as measured by statutory capital and surplus, and the availability of reinsurance from both traditional sources, such as reinsurance companies and capital markets (through catastrophe bonds), and non-traditional sources, such as hedge funds and pension plans. Industry capacity as measured by statutory capital and surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the industry, less amounts returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Capital raised by debt and equity offerings may also increase statutory capital and surplus. Pricing and Underwriting Pricing of the Company s property and casualty insurance products is generally developed based upon an estimation of expected losses, the expenses associated with producing, issuing and servicing business and managing claims, the time value of money related to the expected loss and expense cash flows, and a reasonable profit margin that considers the capital needed to support the Company s business. The Company has a disciplined approach to underwriting and risk management that emphasizes product returns and profitable growth over the long-term rather than premium volume or market share. The Company s insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations regarding rate and policy form approvals. The applicable state laws and regulations establish standards in certain lines of business to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory, 3 or used to engage in unfair price competition. The Company s ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state s requirements, as well as the competitive market environment. Geographic Distribution The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company s consolidated direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2019 : Location % of Total Domestic: California 10.0 % New York 9.6 Texas 8.0 Pennsylvania 4.4 Florida 4.1 New Jersey 3.9 Illinois 3.8 Georgia 3.5 All other domestic (1) 46.3 Total Domestic 93.6 International: Canada 4.3 All other international (1) 2.1 Total International 6.4 Consolidated total 100.0 % ___________________________________________ (1) No other single state or country accounted for 3.0% or more of the Company s consolidated direct written premiums written in 2019. Catastrophe Exposure The Company s property and casualty insurance operations expose it to claims arising out of catastrophes. The Company uses various analyses and methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to continually monitor and analyze underwriting risks of business in natural catastrophe-prone areas and target risk areas for conventional terrorist attacks (defined as attacks other than nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events). The Company relies, in part, upon these analyses to make underwriting decisions designed to manage its exposure on catastrophe-exposed business. For example, as a result of these analyses, the Company has at various times limited the writing of new property and homeowners business in some markets and has selectively taken underwriting actions on new and existing business. These underwriting actions on new and existing business include tightening underwriting standards, selective price increases and changes to policy terms specific to hurricane-, tornado-, wind-, wildfire- and hail-prone areas. See Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Catastrophe Modeling and Changing Climate Conditions. The Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures to catastrophes. See Reinsurance. BUSINESS INSURANCE Business Insurance offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its customers, primarily in the United States, as well as in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and throughout other parts of the world as a corporate member of Lloyd s. Business Insurance is organized as follows: Domestic Select Accounts provides small businesses with property and casualty insurance products and services, including commercial multi-peril, workers compensation, commercial automobile, general liability and commercial property. 4 Middle Market provides mid-sized businesses with property and casualty insurance products and services, including workers compensation, general liability, commercial multi-peril, commercial automobile and commercial property, as well as risk management, claims handling and other services. Middle Market generally provides these products to mid-sized businesses through Commercial Accounts, as well as to targeted industries through Construction , Technology , Public Sector Services and Oil Gas , and additionally, provides mono-line umbrella and excess coverage insurance through Excess Casualty. Middle Market also provides insurance for goods in transit and movable objects, as well as builders risk insurance, through Inland Marine ; insurance for the marine transportation industry and related services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade, through Ocean Marine ; and comprehensive breakdown for equipment, including property and business interruption, through Boiler Machinery . National Accounts provides large companies with casualty insurance products and services, including workers compensation, commercial automobile and general liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive products, on both a bundled and unbundled basis, as well as risk management, claims handling and other services. National Accounts also includes the Company s commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers compensation claims, policy management and other administrative services related to the involuntary market. National Property and Other provides traditional and customized commercial property insurance programs to large and mid-sized customers through National Property. National Property and Other also provides insurance coverage for the commercial transportation industry through Northland Transportation and serves small- to medium-sized agricultural businesses, including farms, ranches and other agricultural-related operations through Agribusiness. National Property and Other also includes commercial property and general liability policies for small, difficult-to-place specialty classes of commercial business primarily on an excess and surplus lines basis through Northfield and also offers tailored property and casualty insurance programs on an admitted basis for customers with common risk characteristics or coverage requirements through National Programs . International International , through operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, provides property and casualty insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including, among others, those in the technology, manufacturing and public services industry sectors. International also provides insurance for both the foreign exposures of United States organizations and the United States exposures of foreign organizations through Global Services . At its Lloyd s syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for which the Company provides 100% of the capital, International underwrites six principal businesses international marine, retail marine, global property, construction special risks, energy and aviation. Business Insurance also includes Simply Business, a leading provider of small business insurance policies primarily in the United Kingdom that was acquired in August 2017, as well as Business Insurance Other, which primarily comprises the Company s asbestos and environmental liabilities, and the assumed reinsurance and certain other runoff operations. Selected Market and Product Information The following table sets forth Business Insurance s net written premiums by market and product line for the periods indicated. For a description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution and Product Lines, respectively. 5 (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2019 2018 2017 % of Total 2019 By market: Domestic: Select Accounts $ 2,911 $ 2,828 $ 2,800 18.6 % Middle Market 8,630 8,214 7,756 55.2 National Accounts 1,051 1,025 1,010 6.7 National Property and Other 1,965 1,805 1,691 12.6 Total Domestic 14,557 13,872 13,257 93.1 International 1,072 1,084 1,013 6.9 Total Business Insurance by market $ 15,629 $ 14,956 $ 14,270 100.0 % By product line: Domestic: Workers compensation $ 3,806 $ 3,840 $ 3,926 24.3 % Commercial automobile 2,736 2,518 2,219 17.5 Commercial property 2,014 1,867 1,772 12.9 General liability 2,416 2,227 2,086 15.4 Commercial multi-peril 3,542 3,390 3,228 22.7 Other 43 30 26 0.3 Total Domestic 14,557 13,872 13,257 93.1 International 1,072 1,084 1,013 6.9 Total Business Insurance by product line $ 15,629 $ 14,956 $ 14,270 100.0 % Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution Business Insurance markets and distributes products through approximately 9,400 independent agencies and brokers. Agencies and brokers are serviced by 101 field offices and supported by customer service centers where the Company performs services for agents for a fee and centralized business centers where the Company processes new and renewal business that meet certain underwriting criteria. Business Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Business Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency s or broker s financial strength, staff experience and strategic fit with the Company s operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, Business Insurance carefully monitors its performance. The majority of products offered in the United States are distributed through independent agents and brokers, many of whom also sell the Company s Personal Insurance and Bond Specialty Insurance products. Business Insurance continues to make significant investments to enable real-time interface capabilities with its independent agencies and brokers. Domestic Select Accounts markets and distributes products and services to small businesses, generally with fewer than 50 employees, through a large network of independent agents and brokers. Products offered by Select Accounts are guaranteed-cost policies, including packaged products covering property and liability exposures. Each small business risk is independently evaluated via an automated underwriting platform which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a substantial amount of new small business risks in an efficient manner. Risks with more complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company personnel. Middle Market markets and distributes products and services primarily to mid-sized businesses with 50 to 1,000 employees through a large network of independent agents and brokers. The Company offers a full line of products to its Middle Market customers with an emphasis on guaranteed-cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed level allows Middle Market to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base. Within Middle Market, products and services are tailored to certain targeted industry segments of significant size and complexity that require unique underwriting, claims handling services, risk management or other insurance-related products and services. 6 National Accounts markets and distributes products and services to large companies through a network of national and regional brokers. Products offered by National Accounts are primarily casualty programs that utilize loss-sensitive products, such as large deductible, and to a lesser extent, retrospectively rated insurance and self-insured retention plans. National Accounts also offers insurance-related services, such as claims administration, risk management, loss control and risk management information services through Constitution State Services LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The commercial residual market business of National Accounts services approximately 38% of the total workers compensation assigned risk market, making the Company one of the largest servicing carriers in the industry. National Property and Other markets and distributes products and services to a wide customer base, providing traditional and customized insurance programs to a broad range of customer sizes through a large network of agents and brokers. National Property and Other also markets and distributes its products through brokers, wholesale agents, program managers and specialized retail agents who operate in certain markets that are not typically served by the Company s appointed retail agents, or who maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and surplus lines market, which is characterized by the absence of rate and form regulation, allows for more pricing and coverage flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with agents or program managers on a brokerage basis, National Property and Other underwrites the business internally and sets the premium level. In working with agents or program managers with delegated underwriting authority, the agents produce and underwrite business subject to pricing and underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program. International markets and distributes products principally through brokers in each of the countries in which it operates. International also writes business at Lloyd s, where its products are distributed through Lloyd s wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd s worldwide licenses, Business Insurance has access to international markets across the world. Pricing and Underwriting Business Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for particular industries, together with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, as well as third-party data, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. Business Insurance utilizes both standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues. A portion of business in this segment, particularly in National Accounts and Construction, is written with large deductible insurance policies. Under workers compensation insurance contracts with large deductible features, the Company is obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. The Company is subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, is subject to credit risk until such reimbursement is made. At December 31, 2019 , contractholder payables on unpaid losses within the deductible layer of large deductible policies and the associated receivables were both approximately $4.62 billion. Business Insurance also utilizes retrospectively rated policies for a portion of its business, primarily for workers compensation coverage. Although the retrospectively rated feature of the policy substantially reduces insurance risk for the Company, it introduces additional credit risk to the Company. Premiums receivable from holders of retrospectively rated policies totaled approximately $91 million at December 31, 2019 . Significant collateral, primarily letters of credit and, to a lesser extent, cash collateral, trusts or surety bonds, is generally obtained for large deductible plans and/or retrospectively rated policies that provide for deferred collection of deductible recoveries and/or ultimate premiums. The amount of collateral requested is based upon the creditworthiness of the customer and the nature of the insured risks. Business Insurance continually monitors the credit exposure on individual accounts and the adequacy of collateral. For additional information concerning credit risk in certain of the Company s businesses, see