Item 1 . Business Overview Tractor Supply Company (the Company or we or our or us ) is the largest rural lifestyle retailer in the United States ( U.S. ). The Company is focused on supplying the needs of recreational farmers, ranchers, and all those who enjoy living the rural lifestyle (which we refer to as the Out Here lifestyle), as well as tradesmen and small businesses. We operate retail stores under the names Tractor Supply Company, Del s Feed Farm Supply, and Petsense and operate websites under the names TractorSupply.com and Petsense.com . Our stores are located primarily in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities. The Company has one reportable industry segment which is the retail sale of products that support the rural lifestyle. At December 28, 2019, we operated 2,024 retail stores in 49 states (1,844 Tractor Supply and Del s retail stores and 180 Petsense retail stores). Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from 15,000 to 20,000 square feet of inside selling space, along with additional outside selling space, and our Petsense stores have approximately 5,500 square feet of inside selling space. For Tractor Supply retail locations, we use a standard design for most new built-to-suit locations that includes approximately 15,500 square feet of inside selling space. Our online selling websites are positioned to offer an extended assortment of products beyond those offered in-store and drive traffic into our stores through our buy online and pickup in-store and ship to store programs. Business Strategy We believe our sales and earnings growth is the result of executing our business strategy, which includes the following key components: Market Niche We have identified a specialized market niche: supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers, ranchers, and all those who enjoy living the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses. By focusing our product assortment on these core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general merchandise, home center, and other specialty retailers. We cater to the rural lifestyle and often serve a market by being a trip consolidator for many basic maintenance needs for farm, ranch, and rural customers through convenient shopping options both in-store and online. Customers Our target customers are home, land, pet, and livestock owners who generally have above average income and below average cost of living. We seek to serve a customer base that primarily lives in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities. This customer base includes recreational farmers, ranchers, and all those who enjoy living the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses. Customer Service We are committed to providing our customers reliable product availability and a convenient, customer-centric experience across shopping channels. In our stores, we believe the ability of our motivated, well-trained team members to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps our customers find the right products to satisfy their everyday needs, as well as the specialty items needed to complete their rural lifestyle projects. We also engage with our customers through our e-commerce website ( TractorSupply.com ), which provides the opportunity to allow customers to shop at anytime, anywhere, and in any way they choose, while delivering enhanced product information, research, and decision tools that support product selection and informational needs in specific subject areas. Additionally, we maintain a Customer Solutions Center at our Store Support Center located in Brentwood, Tennessee, to support our in-store and online customers, as well as our store team members. We believe this commitment to customer service promotes strong customer loyalty through personalized experiences and provides convenience that our customers expect, which drives repeat shopping experiences. 1 Index We use a third-party provider to survey and measure our level of customer service. This process allows customers to provide feedback on their shopping experience. Based on the third-party provider s data, we believe our customer satisfaction scores are among the best-in-class. We carefully evaluate the feedback we receive from our customers and implement improvements at both the Company and the individual store level based on that feedback. Store Personnel and Training We seek to hire store team members who live and appreciate the "Out Here" lifestyle, including those with farming and ranching backgrounds, with particular emphasis on general maintenance, equine, and welding. We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated team members and devote considerable resources to training store team members, often in cooperation with our vendors. Our training programs include: A thorough on-boarding process to prepare new team members for their new role; Productive workplace environment training that is intended to educate team members on company policies and procedures covering topics such as harassment, discrimination, and retaliation; New store opening training that prepares our store managers to open new stores to Company standards; A management training program which covers all aspects of our store operations, delivering superior service, and managing the team member experience; Structured training on customer service and selling skills; Online product knowledge training produced in conjunction with key vendors; Leadership development programs that prepare leaders to expand their current contributions; and An annual store manager meeting with vendor product presentations. Store Environment Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies. Stores are strategically arranged to provide an open environment for optimal product placement and visual display. In addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and visual displays to be changed for seasonal products and promotions. Display and product placement information is routinely sent to stores to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores. Our store layouts and visual displays are designed to provide our customers a feeling of familiarity and convenience to enhance the shopping experience. Informative signs are located in key product categories to conveniently assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise location. These signs provide customers with a comparison of product qualities, clear pricing, useful information regarding product benefits, and suggestions for appropriate accessories. Also, our store team members wear highly visible red vests, aprons, or smocks with nametags, and our customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located near the front of the store. Merchandising and Purchasing We offer an extensive assortment of products for all those seeking to enjoy the Out Here lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses. Our product assortment is tailored to meet the needs of our customers in various geographic markets. Our full line of product offerings includes a broad selection of high quality, reputable brand name and exclusive brand products and is supported by a strong in-stock inventory position with approximately 15,500 to 20,000 products per store as well as over 125,000 products online. No single product accounted for more than 10% of our sales during fiscal 2019. Our comprehensive selection of merchandise is comprised of the following major product categories: Equine, livestock, pet, and small animal products, including items necessary for their health, care, growth, and containment; Hardware, truck, towing, and tool products; Seasonal products, including heating, lawn and garden items, power equipment, gifts, and toys; Work/recreational clothing and footwear; and Maintenance products for agricultural and rural use. 2 Index The following table indicates the percentage of net sales represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017: Percent of Net Sales Fiscal Year Product Category: 2019 2018 2017 Livestock and Pet 47 % 47 % 47 % Hardware, Tools and Truck 21 22 22 Seasonal, Gift and Toy Products 20 19 19 Clothing and Footwear 8 8 8 Agriculture 4 4 4 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Our buying team continuously reviews and updates our product assortment to respond to customer needs and to offer new, relevant products. We are focused on providing key products that our customers use on a regular basis for their lifestyle and maintenance needs with emphasis on consumable, usable, and edible ( C.U.E. ) products. Examples of C.U.E. product categories include, but are not limited to, livestock feed and bedding, pet food, lubricants, and various seasonal products, such as heating, pest control, and twine. Our products are sourced through both domestic and international vendors, each of whom adhere to a code of conduct that guides our relationship. Our business is not dependent upon any single vendor or particular group of vendors. We purchase our products from a group of approximately 975 vendors, with no one vendor representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2019. Approximately 375 core vendors accounted for 90% of our merchandise purchases during fiscal 2019. We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products, and we believe that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs for nearly all of our products. We have no material long-term contractual commitments with any of our product vendors. Our buying teams focus on merchandise procurement, vendor line reviews, and testing of new products and programs. We also employ a dedicated inventory management team that focuses exclusively on forecasting and inventory replenishment, a committed merchandise planning team that concentrates on assortment planning, and a specialized pricing team that seeks to optimize market-specific pricing for our products. Through the combined efforts of these teams, we continue to focus on improving our overall inventory productivity and in-stock inventory position. Intellectual Property Our subsidiary, Tractor Supply Co. of Texas, LP ( TSCT ), owns registrations with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ( USPTO ) for various service marks including TSC , Tractor Supply Co. , TSC Tractor Supply Co. , and the trapezium design for retail services. We consider these service marks, and the accompanying goodwill and name recognition, to be valuable assets of our business. TSCT also owns several other service marks for retail services, some of which have been registered with the USPTO and some of which are the subject of applications for registration pending before the USPTO. In addition to selling products that bear nationally-known manufacturer brands, we also sell products manufactured for us under a number of exclusive brands that we consider to be important to our business. These exclusive brands are manufactured for us by a number of vendors and provide an alternative to the national brands, which helps provide value for our customers and positions us as a destination retailer. 3 Index Our exclusive brands represented approximately 31% of our total sales in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 32% of our total sales in fiscal 2017. Our exclusive brands include: 4health (pet foods and supplies) Producer s Pride (livestock and horse feed and supplies) Bit Bridle (apparel and footwear) Red Shed (gifts, collectibles, and outdoor furniture) Blue Mountain (apparel) Redstone (heating products) C.E. Schmidt (apparel and footwear) Retriever (pet foods and supplies) Countyline (livestock, farm and ranch equipment) Ridgecut (apparel) Dumor (livestock and horse feed and supplies) Royal Wing (bird feed and supplies) Groundwork (lawn and garden supplies) Traveller (truck and automotive products) Huskee (outdoor power equipment) Treeline (hunting gear and accessories) JobSmart (tools) TSC Tractor Supply Co (trailers, truck tool boxes, and animal bedding) Paws Claws (pet foods and supplies) Untamed (pet foods) The exclusive brands identified above have been registered as trademarks with the USPTO for certain products and are the subject of applications for registration pending before the USPTO for other products. Our trademark and service mark registrations have various expiration dates; however, provided that we continue to use the marks and renew the registrations in a timely manner, the registrations are potentially perpetual in duration. We believe our intellectual property, which includes the trademarks and service marks identified above, together with certain trade names, domain names, patents, and copyrights, has significant value and is an important component of our merchandising and marketing strategies. Distribution We currently operate a distribution facility network for supplying stores with merchandise and delivering product ordered through TractorSupply.com . In fiscal 2019, our Tractor Supply stores received approximately 74% of merchandise through this network while the remaining merchandise shipped directly from our vendors to our stores or customers. We believe this flow facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of merchandise in order to enhance in-stock inventory positions, minimize freight expense, and improve the inventory turn rate. Our distribution facilities, located in Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New York, Texas, and Washington represent a total distribution capacity of 6.1 million square feet. We also use third-party operated import centers and mixing centers which provide additional distribution capacity. In fiscal 2019, we completed and began shipping operations at our new northeast distribution center in Frankfort, New York. We select the locations of our distribution facilities in an effort to minimize logistical costs and optimize the distance from distribution facilities to our stores. Our distribution centers utilize warehouse and labor management tools that support the planning, control, and processing of inventory. We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use of a transportation management system. We utilize multiple common carriers for store and direct to customer deliveries. We manage our transportation costs through carrier negotiations, monitoring of transportation routes, and scheduling of deliveries. Marketing We utilize an everyday value price philosophy to consistently offer our products at competitive prices complemented by strategically planned promotions throughout the year. To drive store traffic and position ourselves as a destination retailer, we promote a broad selection of merchandise through various digital and social media initiatives, newspaper circulars, customer targeted direct mail, and direct e-mail, as well as limited television, radio, and other limited media channels. In addition, our Neighbor s Club loyalty program enhances our ability to create engagement with our best customers. Vendors frequently support these specific programs by offering temporary cost reductions and honoring coupons. Our vendors also provide assistance with product presentation and fixture design, brochures, support for in-store events, point-of-purchase materials for customer education, and product knowledge for our team members. 4 Index Omni-Channel The customer is our singular focus and our priority is ensuring they can engage with us in the most convenient manner for them whether in our stores, on our website, or via our Customer Solutions Center. Our goal is to be available anytime, anywhere, and in any way our customers choose to engage with our brand. We provide our customers the opportunity to shop in a manner that fits their lifestyle and is most convenient for them. Our focus is on delivering a comprehensive mobile experience while maintaining a straight-forward shopping experience to further offer the convenience our customers need. We offer a buy online and pick up in-store program which provides convenient access for customers to pick up merchandise from our store locations. Additionally, our online experience offers an expansive product assortment including a direct to consumer assortment extending our aisles beyond our store locations as well as convenient and useful content that is relevant to their lifestyle. We provide our customers the ability to have products shipped directly to our retail store locations or to their homes or offices. We use our distribution facility network to support our e-commerce activities. Our digital capabilities have further enhanced our in-store shopping and customer service experience, allowed us to engage with our customers anytime, anywhere, and in any way they choose, and expanded our target markets outside of our current retail store locations. Management and Team Members As of December 28, 2019, we employed approximately 16,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time Tractor Supply team members. We typically employ additional part-time team members throughout the year during high sales volume periods. We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements. Our store operations are organized into regions, each of which is led by a regional vice president. The region is further organized into districts, each of which is led by a district manager. We have two internal advisory boards, one comprised of store managers and the other comprised of district managers. These groups bring a grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generate chain-wide endorsement of proposed best-practice solutions. All of our team members participate in one of our various bonus incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon team and/or Company performance. In addition to bonus incentive programs, we provide our eligible team members the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement savings plan. We also share in the cost of health insurance provided to eligible team members, and team members receive a discount on merchandise purchased from the Company. We encourage a promote-from-within environment when internal resources permit. We also provide internal leadership development programs designed to prepare our high-potential team members for greater responsibility. Our current team of district managers and store managers have an average tenure of approximately nine and six years, respectively. We believe internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, will provide the management structure necessary to support our long-term strategic growth initiatives. Continuous Improvement We are committed to a continuous improvement program to drive change throughout our organization. Using data analytics and team member engagement, we examine business processes and identify opportunities to reduce costs, drive innovation, and improve effectiveness. We have implemented numerous continuous improvement projects, with team members from multiple areas of our business, to evaluate key operations and implement process change. Team members are empowered and expected to challenge current paradigms and improve processes. Management encourages the participation of all team members in the decision-making process, regularly solicits input and suggestions from our team members, and incorporates suggestions into our improvement activities. Management Information and Control Systems We have invested resources in management information and control systems to provide legendary customer service and to deliver the right products in the right place at the right time. This includes use of digital technologies to integrate the customer experience in-store, online, and through our Customer Solutions Center, which offers customers the ability to shop anytime, anywhere, and in any way they choose. Our key platforms include: Point-of-sale system; In-store mobility; E-commerce platform; 5 Index Replenishment and allocation systems; Merchandising presentation and inventory management tools; Warehouse and transportation management systems; Labor management tools for stores and supply chain; Price optimization system; Vendor purchase order control system; Business intelligence and analytics tools; and Customer loyalty system. These systems are integrated through an enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) system. This ERP system tracks merchandise from initial order through ultimate sale and interfaces with our financial systems. We continue to invest in technology to support store, online, and distribution facility expansion and our long-term strategic growth initiatives focused heavily on improving the customer experience across all channels. We also continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize their effectiveness. Such efforts include ongoing hardware and software evaluations, refreshes, and upgrades to support optimal software configurations, and application performance. We plan to continue to invest in information technology and implement efficiency-driving system enhancements. We will continue to evaluate the use of technologies to improve productivity such as artificial intelligence, automation software, quantum computing, and other technologies. We also maintain and continue to strengthen the security of our information systems to help protect and prevent unauthorized access to personal information of our customers, employees, vendors, and other confidential Company data as well as ensuring that we adhere to industry privacy laws and standards. Collectively, these efforts are directed toward improving business processes, maintaining secure, efficient, and stable systems, and enabling the continued growth and success of our business. Petsense Petsense is a small-box pet specialty supply retailer focused on meeting the needs of pet owners, primarily in small and mid-sized communities, and offering a variety of pet products and services. At December 28, 2019, we operated a total of 180 Petsense stores in 26 states, with approximately 500 full-time and 1,000 part-time team members, and an e-commerce website ( Petsense.com ). Petsense owns a registration trademark for its exclusive brand, TrueSource pet food, and the Petsense name is registered with the USPTO. Growth Strategy Tractor Supply Company believes we can grow our business by being the most dependable supplier of relevant products and services for the Out Here lifestyle, creating customer loyalty through personalized experiences, and providing convenience that our customers expect at anytime, anywhere, and in any way they choose. Our long-term growth strategy is to: (1) drive profitable growth through new store openings and by expanding omni-channel capabilities, thus tying together our website product content, social media, digital, and online shopping experience, attracting new customers and driving loyalty, (2) build customer-centric engagement by leveraging analytics to deliver legendary customer service, seasoned advice, and personalized experiences, (3) offer relevant assortments and services across all channels through exclusive and national brands and continue to introduce new products and services through our test and learn strategy, (4) enhance our core and foundational capabilities by investing in infrastructure and process improvements which will support growth, scale, and agility while improving the customer experience, and (5) expand through selective acquisitions, as such opportunities arise, to add complementary businesses and to enhance penetration into new and existing markets to supplement organic growth. Achieving this strategy will require a foundational focus on: (1) organizing, optimizing, and empowering our team members for growth by developing skills, talent, and leadership across the organization, and (2) implementing operational efficiency initiatives, including leverage of technology and automation, to align our cost structure to support new business capabilities for margin improvement and cost reductions. Over the past five years, we have experienced considerable sales growth, resulting in a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 7.9%. We plan to open approximately 80 new Tractor Supply and 10 to 15 new Petsense stores in fiscal 2020, a selling square footage increase of approximately 4.5%. In fiscal 2019, we opened 80 new Tractor Supply stores and 8 new Petsense stores. In fiscal 2018, we opened 80 new Tractor Supply stores and 18 new Petsense stores. This represents a selling square footage increase of approximately 4.3% during fiscal 2019 and 4.9% during fiscal 2018. 6 Index At December 28, 2019, we operated 2,024 retail stores in 49 states (1,844 Tractor Supply and Del s retail stores and 180 Petsense retail stores). Given the size of the communities that we target, we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in many existing and new markets. We have developed a proven method for selecting store sites and have identified over 600 additional markets for new Tractor Supply stores. We also believe that there is opportunity for up to 1,000 Petsense stores. Approximately 55% of our stores are in freestanding buildings and 45% are located in strip shopping centers. We lease approximately 94% of our stores and own the remaining 6%. Competition We operate in a competitive retail industry. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, fulfillment options, price, quality of merchandise, in-stock inventory consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, product knowledge, online competitors, and customer service. We compete with general merchandise retailers, home center retailers, pet retailers, specialty and discount retailers, independently owned retail farm and ranch stores, numerous privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives, as well as internet-based retailers. However, we believe we successfully differentiate ourselves from many of these retailers by focusing on our specialized market niche for customers living the rural lifestyle. See further discussion of competition in 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality and Weather Our business is seasonal. Historically, our sales and profits are the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters due to the sale of seasonal products. We experience our highest inventory and accounts payable balances during our first fiscal quarter for purchases of seasonal products to support the higher sales volume of the spring selling season, and again during our third fiscal quarter to support the higher sales volume of the cold-weather selling season. We believe that our business can be more accurately assessed by focusing on the performance of the halves, not the quarters, due to the fact that different weather patterns from year-to-year can shift the timing of sales and profits between quarters, particularly between the first and second fiscal quarters and the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Historically, weather conditions, including unseasonably warm weather in the fall and winter months and unseasonably cool weather in the spring and summer months, have affected the timing and volume of our sales and results of operations. In addition, extreme weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, hurricanes, tornadoes, extreme rain, and droughts have impacted operating results both negatively and positively, depending on the severity and length of these conditions. Our strategy is to manage product flow and adjust merchandise assortments and depth of inventory to capitalize on seasonal demand trends. Stewardship and Compliance with Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations, enacted or adopted, regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. We are committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. We are also committed to becoming a more environmentally sustainable company. This commitment is demonstrated through our Stewardship Program, which is our environmental sustainability program. Through this program, the Company has implemented a number of initiatives designed to reduce our impact on the environment. These initiatives include the installation of energy management systems, LED lighting, high efficiency heating/air conditioning systems, and recycling programs in our stores, distribution facilities, and Store Support Center. Our Store Support Center and our distribution centers in Casa Grande, Arizona, and Frankfort, New York, are LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver certified for environmentally sustainable design, construction, and operation. We also installed solar arrays at the Store Support Center in Brentwood, Tennessee, and our Tractor Supply store in Hendersonville, Tennessee. In December 2018, we announced a goal to reduce carbon emissions from our facilities by 25% by 2025 from our 2015 baseline as part of the Company's Stewardship Program. Additional information can be found in our annual sustainability report on our website. 7 Index Information about our Executive Officers Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is included in Part I of this Report in lieu of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 7, 2020. The following is a list of the names and ages of all executive officers of the registrant, indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each such person and each person s principal occupations and employment during at least the past