Item 1. Business Overview Tractor Supply Company (the Company or Tractor Supply or we or our or us ) is the largest rural lifestyle retailer in the United States ( U.S. ). The Company is focused on supplying the needs of recreational farmers, ranchers, and all those who enjoy living the rural lifestyle (which we refer to as the Out Here lifestyle). We operate retail stores under the names Tractor Supply Company and Petsense by Tractor Supply. Our stores are located primarily in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities. We also offer an expanded assortment of products through the Tractor Supply mobile application and online at TractorSupply.com and Petsense.com . The Company has one reportable industry segment which is the retail sale of products that support the rural lifestyle. At December 30, 2023, we operated 2,414 retail stores in 49 states (2,216 Tractor Supply retail stores and 198 Petsense by Tractor Supply retail stores). Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from 15,000 to 20,000 square feet of inside selling space, along with additional outside selling space ( Side Lot ), and our Petsense by Tractor Supply stores have approximately 5,500 square feet of inside selling space. Our online selling websites and our mobile application offer an extended assortment of products beyond those offered in-store and drive traffic into our stores through our buy online and pickup in-store and ship to store programs. Our retail store locations and digital capabilities provide the convenience to allow our customers to engage with us anytime, anywhere and in any way they choose. On October 12, 2022, the Company completed its acquisition of Orscheln Farm and Home, LLC ( Orscheln or Orscheln Farm and Home ). The Company acquired 166 Orscheln stores for approximately $393.4 million, exclusive of cash acquired. Consistent with the remedy reached with the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ), the Company divested 85 store locations to two buyers, Bomgaars Supply, Inc. (73 stores) and Buchheit Enterprises, Inc. (12 stores), concurrently with the closing of the acquisition. Net proceeds from the store divestitures were approximately $69.4 million. In addition, the Company sold the Orscheln corporate headquarters and distribution center to Bomgaars Supply, Inc. for $10 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2023. The acquisition was financed with cash-on-hand and borrowings under the 2022 Senior Credit Facility (as defined below). All Orscheln stores have been rebranded to Tractor Supply as of the end of fiscal 2023. Business Strategy for Tractor Supply Company We believe our sales and earnings growth is the result of executing our multi-year strategy, which includes the following key components: Target Market Supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers, ranchers, animal and pet owners, and all those who enjoy living the rural lifestyle remains our primary objective. By focusing our product assortment on these core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general merchandise, home center, and other specialty retailers. We cater to the rural lifestyle and often serve a market by being a trip consolidator for many basic maintenance needs for farm, ranch, and rural customers through convenient shopping options both in-store and online. Customers Our target customers are home, land, pet, animal and livestock owners who generally have above average income and below average cost of living. We seek to serve a customer base that primarily lives in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities. This customer base includes recreational farmers, ranchers, and all those who enjoy living a rural inspired lifestyle. Customer Service We are committed to providing our customers reliable product availability and a convenient, customer-centric experience across shopping channels. In our stores, we believe the ability of our motivated, well-trained team members to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps our customers find the right products to satisfy their everyday needs, as well as the specialty items needed to complete their rural lifestyle projects. We also engage with our customers through our e-commerce websites and mobile application, which provide the opportunity to allow customers to shop anytime, anywhere, and in any way they choose, while delivering enhanced product information, research, and decision tools that support product selection and 1 Table of Con tents informational needs in specific subject areas. Additionally, we maintain a Customer Solutions Center at our Store Support Center located in Brentwood, Tennessee, to support our in-store and online customers, as well as our store team members. We believe this commitment to customer service promotes strong customer loyalty through personalized experiences and provides convenience that our customers expect, which drives repeat shopping experiences. We use a third-party provider to survey and measure our level of customer service. This process allows customers to provide feedback on their shopping experience. Based on the third-party provider s data, we believe our customer satisfaction scores are among the best-in-class. We carefully evaluate the feedback we receive from our customers and implement improvements at both the Company and the individual store level based on that feedback. Store Environment Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies. Stores are strategically arranged to provide an open environment for optimal product placement and visual display. In addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and visual displays to be changed for seasonal products and promotions. Display and product placement information is routinely sent to stores to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores, and our Field Activity Support Teams ( FAST ) are dedicated to support the stores in creating an enhanced in-store experience for our customers through best-in-class merchandising execution. Our store layouts and visual displays are designed to provide our customers a feeling of familiarity and convenience to enhance the shopping experience. Informative signs are located in key product categories to conveniently assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise location. These signs provide customers with a comparison of product qualities, clear pricing, useful information regarding product benefits, and suggestions for appropriate accessories. Also, our store team members wear highly visible red vests or aprons with name tags, and our customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located near the front of the store. Our stores have been equipped with tools such as team member communication devices, wireless internet, and mobile point-of-sale devices that enable our team members to provide an enhanced shopping experience to our customers. In addition, our buy online and pickup in-store and ship to store programs, including curbside pickup, provide convenient access for customers to pick up merchandise from our store locations. We also offer store delivery in all of our Tractor Supply stores to meet our customers' needs. We are in the midst of a multi-year project that began in 2020 to remodel our existing store base, bringing programs to life with new fixtures, layouts and products that truly enhance the customer shopping experience. The site-level space is analyzed category by category and reallocated as needed to align with current merchandising strategies and to drive space productivity. Another space productivity initiative is to transform our Side Lot with an expanded product offering and an enhanced shopping experience. With this investment, the Side Lot space is leveraged to offer a wider product offering in the lawn and garden categories and new categories within the garden center, and offer greater convenience through the expansion of our buy online and pickup in-store and ship to store capabilities for drive-thru pickup. Merchandising and Purchasing We offer an extensive assortment of products for all those seeking to enjoy the Out Here lifestyle. Our product assortment is tailored to meet the needs of our customers in various geographic markets. Our full line of product offerings includes a broad selection of high quality, reputable brand name and exclusive brand products with approximately 17,000 to 25,000 products per store as well as over 300,000 products online. No single product accounted for more than 10% of our sales during fiscal 2023. Our comprehensive selection of merchandise is comprised of the following major product categories: Livestock, Equine Agriculture: livestock and equine feed equipment, poultry, fencing, and sprayers chemicals; Companion Animal: food, treats and equipment for dogs, cats, and other small animals as well as dog wellness; Seasonal Recreation: tractor rider, lawn garden, bird feeding, power equipment, and other recreational products; Truck, Tool, Hardware: truck accessories, trailers, generators, lubricants, batteries, and hardware and tools; and Clothing, Gift, D cor: clothing, footwear, toys, snacks, and decorative merchandise. 2 Table of Con tents The following table indicates the percentage of net sales represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal 2023, 2022, and 2021: Percent of Net Sales Fiscal Year Product Category: 2023 2022 2021 Livestock, Equine Agriculture 27 % 28 % 27 % Companion Animal 25 23 21 Seasonal Recreation 22 22 23 Truck, Tool, Hardware 16 16 18 Clothing, Gift, D cor 10 11 11 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Note: Net sales by major product categories for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Our buying team continuously reviews and updates our product assortment as necessary to respond to customer needs and to offer new, relevant products. We are focused on providing key products that our customers use on a regular basis for their lifestyle and maintenance needs with emphasis on C.U.E. products. Examples of C.U.E. product categories include, but are not limited to, livestock feed and bedding, pet food, bird seed, lubricants, propane, and various seasonal products, such as fertilizer, weed control, mulch, pest control, and twine. Our products are sourced through both domestic and international vendors, each of whom are expected to adhere to a code of conduct that guides our relationship. Our business is not dependent upon any single vendor or particular group of vendors. We purchase our products from a group of approximately 1,000 vendors, with no one vendor representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2023. Approximately 400 core vendors accounted for 90% of our merchandise purchases during fiscal 2023. We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products to meet customer demands despite the global supply chain disruptions and delays. We believe that adequate sources of supply exist, but they may cost more or require us to incur higher transportation costs. Our buying teams focus on merchandise procurement, vendor line reviews, and testing of new products and programs. We also employ a dedicated inventory management team that focuses exclusively on forecasting and inventory replenishment, a committed merchandise planning team that concentrates on assortment planning, and a specialized pricing team that seeks to optimize market-specific pricing for our products. Through the combined efforts of these teams, we continue to focus on improving our overall inventory productivity and in-stock inventory position. Intellectual Property Our subsidiary, Tractor Supply Co. of Texas, LP ( TSCT ), owns registrations with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ( USPTO ) for various service marks including TSC , Tractor Supply Co. , TSC Tractor Supply Co. , and the trapezium design for retail services. We consider these service marks, and the accompanying goodwill and name recognition, to be valuable assets of our business. TSCT also owns several other service marks for retail services, some of which have been registered with the USPTO and some of which are the subject of applications for registration pending before the USPTO. In addition to selling products that bear nationally-known manufacturer brands, we also sell products manufactured for us under a number of exclusive brands that we consider to be important to our business. These exclusive brands are manufactured for us by a number of vendors and provide an alternative to the national brands, which helps provide value for our customers and positions us as a destination retailer. 3 Table of Con tents Our exclusive brands represented approximately 29%, 30%, and 29% of our total sales in fiscal 2023, fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively. Our exclusive brands include: 4health (pet foods and supplies) Paws Claws (pet foods and supplies) American Farmworks (livestock, farm and ranch Producer s Pride (livestock and horse feed and supplies) equipment) Bit Bridle (apparel and footwear) Red Shed (gifts, collectibles, and outdoor furniture) Blue Mountain (apparel) Redstone (heating products) C.E. Schmidt (apparel and footwear) Retriever (pet foods and supplies) Country Lane (grooming preparations, animal Ridgecut (apparel) feed and feed supplements) Countyline (livestock, farm and ranch equipment) Royal Wing (bird feed and supplies) Country Tuff (lubricants, fluids and oil treatments) Strive (pet foods) Dumor (livestock and horse feed and supplies) Traveller (truck and automotive products) Farm Table (pet food and treats) Treeline (hunting gear and accessories) Groundwork (lawn and garden supplies) TSC Tractor Supply Co (trailers, truck tool boxes and animal bedding) Huskee (outdoor power equipment) Untamed (pet foods) JobSmart (tools) The exclusive brands identified above have been registered as trademarks with the USPTO for certain products and some are the subject of additional applications for registration pending before the USPTO for other products. Our trademark and service mark registrations have various expiration dates; however, provided that we continue to use the marks and file appropriate maintenance and renewal documentation with the USPTO in a timely manner, the registrations are potentially perpetual in duration. Our patents (both United States and foreign) have expiration dates ranging from April 2027 to December 2041 and protect various elements, designs or functions of farm and ranch equipment, as well as light systems for trucks and other vehicles. We believe our intellectual property, which includes the trademarks and service marks identified above, together with certain trade names, domain names, patents, and copyrights, has significant value and is an important component of our merchandising and marketing strategies. Distribution We currently operate a distribution facility network for supplying stores with merchandise and delivering product ordered through our websites and mobile application. In fiscal 2023, our Tractor Supply stores received approximately 81% of merchandise through this network while the remaining merchandise shipped directly from our vendors to our stores or customers. We believe this flow facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of merchandise that allows us to be a dependable supplier to our customers for their Out Here lifestyle solutions by enhancing in-stock inventory positions, while minimizing freight expense and improving the inventory turn rate. Our distribution facilities, located in Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New York, Ohio and Texas represent a total distribution center capacity of approximately 6.6 million square feet. We also use third-party operated import centers, mixing centers and pop-up distribution facilities which provide additional distribution capacity. On January 18, 2023, the Company opened its ninth distribution center located in Navarre, Ohio, which expanded the distribution center capacity by approximately 900,000 square feet. In addition, the Company is building a new distribution center in Maumelle, Arkansas. This new facility will expand the Company s distribution center capacity by 1,200,000 square feet and is anticipated to begin operations in the second quarter of 2024. We select the locations of our distribution facilities in an effort to minimize logistics costs and optimize the distance from distribution facilities to our stores. Our distribution centers utilize warehouse and labor management tools that support the planning, control, and processing of inventory. We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use of a transportation management system. We utilize multiple common carriers for store and direct to customer 4 Table of Con tents deliveries. We manage our transportation costs through carrier negotiations, monitoring of transportation routes, and scheduling of deliveries. Marketing Leveraging our value-driving offerings from our Neighbor s Club loyalty program, we utilize an everyday low price philosophy to consistently offer our products at competitive prices complemented by limited and strategically planned promotions throughout the year. To drive store traffic, build brand consideration, and position ourselves as a destination retailer, we promote a broad selection of merchandise and our Life Out Here brand messaging through digital and social media initiatives, targeted digital video (connected TV and streaming programming), e-mail and direct mail. In addition, our rapidly growing Neighbor s Club loyalty program enhances our ability to engage with our customers, recognize and reward our best customers, drive desired purchase behaviors, and create brand advocacy. Vendors frequently support these specific programs by offering temporary cost reductions, additional funding, and honoring coupons. Our vendors also provide assistance with product presentation and fixture design, support for in-store events, point-of-purchase materials for customer education, and product knowledge for our team members. Omni-Channel Ensuring that our customers can engage with us in the most convenient manner for them whether in our stores, on our website, on our mobile application, or via our Customer Solutions Center, is a high priority for us. Our goal is to be available anytime, anywhere, and in any way our customers choose to engage with our brand. We provide our customers the opportunity to shop in a manner that fits their lifestyle and is most convenient for them. Our focus is on delivering a comprehensive, easy shopping experience, offering the conveniences our customers want and expect by driving a personalized experience by leveraging our Neighbor s Club Loyalty program. We offer buy online, pickup in-store, and curbside pickup, which provide convenient access for customers to pick up merchandise from our store locations. Additionally, our online experience offers an expansive product assortment including a direct to consumer assortment. This allows us to extend our aisles beyond our store locations and provides convenient and useful content that is relevant to our customers lifestyle. We provide our customers the ability to have products shipped directly to our retail store locations or delivered to their homes or offices. For select products, we offer same day delivery. We use our distribution facility network as well as our stores to support our e-commerce activities. Our digital capabilities have further enhanced our in-store shopping experience, allowing us to engage with our customers more effectively, and expanded our target markets outside of our current retail store locations. Continuous Improvement We are committed to a continuous improvement program to drive change throughout our organization. Using data analytics and team member engagement, we examine business processes and identify opportunities to reduce costs, drive innovation, and improve effectiveness. We establish annual goals for productivity and cost improvement. Additionally, we have training goals to expand our team s knowledge and understanding of continuous improvement, which is a key pillar in our culture . We have implemented several continuous improvement projects, with team members across our business, to evaluate key operations and implement process changes. Team members are empowered and expected to challenge current paradigms and improve processes. Management encourages the participation of all team members in the decision-making process, regularly solicits input and suggestions from our team members, and incorporates suggestions into our improvement activities. Management Information and Control Systems We have invested resources in management information and control systems to provide legendary customer service and to deliver the right products in the right place at the right time. This investment includes use of digital technologies that support the Out Here lifestyle and integrate the customer experience in-store, online, and through our Customer Solutions Center, which offers customers the ability to shop anytime, anywhere, and in any way they choose. Our key platforms include: Point-of-sale system; In-store mobility; E-commerce platform; Consumer mobile app; Replenishment and allocation systems; Merchandising presentation and inventory management tools; Warehouse and transportation management systems; Labor management tools for stores and supply chain; 5 Table of Con tents Price optimization system; Vendor purchase order control system; Human resource information systems; Business intelligence and analytics tools; and Customer loyalty and campaign management system. These systems are integrated through an enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) system. This ERP system tracks merchandise from initial order through ultimate sale and interfaces with our financial systems. We continue to invest in technology to support store, online, and distribution facility expansion and our long-term strategic growth initiatives focused heavily on improving the customer experience across all channels. We also continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize their effectiveness. Such efforts include ongoing hardware and software evaluations, refreshes, and upgrades to support optimal software configurations, and application performance. We plan to continue to invest in information technology and implement efficiency-driving system enhancements such as computer vision, labor and task management tools, edge computing and artificial intelligence. We will continue to evaluate the use of emerging technologies to improve productivity such as robotics, robotic process automation, quantum computing and other technologies. We also maintain and continue to strengthen the security of our information systems to help protect and prevent unauthorized access to personal information of our customers, team members, vendors, and other confidential Company data. We are endeavoring to adhere to quickly evolving industry privacy laws and standards , as well as governance as it applies to artificial intelligence . Critical areas of focus include cloud, end point protection and privacy. Collectively, these efforts are directed toward improving business processes, maintaining secure, efficient, and stable systems, and enabling the continued growth and success of our business. Petsense by Tractor Supply Petsense by Tractor Supply is a small-box pet specialty supply retailer focused on meeting the needs of pet owners, primarily in small and mid-sized communities, and offering a variety of pet products and services. At December 30, 2023, we operated a total of 198 Petsense by Tractor Supply stores in 23 states, and an e-commerce website ( Petsense.com ). The Petsense name is registered with the USPTO. Human Capital We believe that our team members are the foundation of our business and that their hard work, passion, commitment, and experience drive our success. As a result of our commitment to our team members, we were recognized by the Great Place to Work Institute as a Great Place to Work-Certified company. Additionally, we earned a spot on both the Nashville Business Journal's Best Places to Work and the Tennessean's Top Workplaces in Middle Tennessee lists, as well as national lists including Fortune s Best Workplaces in Retail , Newsweek s America's Greatest Workplaces, and Forbes America's Best Large Employers . Below are further descriptions of our Company and our focus on the development and support of our team members: Management and Team Members As of December 30, 2023, we employed approxima tely 25,000 full-time and 25,000 part-time Tractor Supply and Petsense by Tractor Supply team members and use contractors on an as-needed basis. We typically employ additional part-time team members throughout the year during high sales volume periods. We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements. Eligible team members can participate in one of our various bonus incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon individual, team, and/or Company performance. In addition to bonus incentive programs, we provide our eligible team members the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement savings plan. We offer health insurance for which we share a significant portion of the cost of premiums. We additionally provide our eligible team members with a tuition reimbursement program, paid time off and a six-week parental leave policy for new parents. Our team members also receive a discount on merchandise purchased from the Company. We encourage a promote-from-within environment when internal resources permit. We also provide internal leadership development programs designed to prepare our high-potential team members for greater responsibility. Our current team of district managers and store managers has an average tenure of approximately nine and six years, respectively. We believe internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, provide the management structure necessary to support our long-term strategic growth initiatives. 6 Table of Con tents Store Team Member Learning Development We seek to hire store team members who live and appreciate the Out Here lifestyle, including recreational farmers, ranchers, homeowners, gardeners and pet enthusiasts. We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated team members and devote considerable resources to training store team members, often in cooperation with our vendors. Our learning development programs include: A thorough on-boarding process to prepare new team members for their new role; Productive workplace environment training that is intended to educate team members on Company policies and procedures covering topics such as harassment, discrimination, and retaliation; Diversity, equity, and inclusion training which is intended to advance a diverse and inclusive culture built on one of our core values of respect, in order to foster different perspectives, ideas and innovative thinking; New store opening training that prepares our store managers to open new stores to Company standards; A management training program which covers all aspects of our store operations, including delivering superior service and managing the team member experience; Structured training on customer service and selling skills; Online product knowledge training produced in conjunction with key vendors; Leadership development programs that prepare leaders to expand their current contributions; Periodic all store team member meetings; and An annual store manager meeting with vendor product presentations. Workplace Health and Safety At Tractor Supply, maintaining a healthy, safe environment for our team members and customers is embedded in our mission and values. Team members are empowered to do the right thing and encourage the same of others. We are committed to driving a culture of safety for our team members, customers and communities through role-based training specific to TSC s operations, the use of technology to deliver training, and an attitude of continual improvement. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Tractor Supply is committed to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion ( DE I ). We have built a strong and diverse team by purposefully seeking highly qualified diverse candidates with different backgrounds, experience, perspectives, ideas and skill sets. As we move forward, we are working to implement new DE I initiatives that will result in an even more diverse team across the entire company. We are committed to providing a diverse and inclusive culture supported by our Mission Values where we welcome diverse backgrounds and experiences and respectfully foster different perspectives, ideas and innovative thinking. We are stronger together, and we believe in the authenticity our team members bring to work every day. By focusing on our team members, we know that our customers, communities and suppliers will be well served. Diversity and inclusion play a key role in moving our business forward. Our workforce is approximately 51% male and 49% female. Racial and ethnic minorities comprise approximately 18% of our workforce. Women serve in key leadership roles within the Company, including as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations, Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer and Senior Vice President, General Merchandise. We have taken several steps over the past twelve months to further enhance our diversity, equ