Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 35 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Item 9B. Other Information 128 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 129 Item 11. Executive Compensation 129 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 129 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 129 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 129 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 129 Item 16. Summary 155 Signatures 156 i Forward-Looking Statements The discussions in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenues, projected costs, profitability, expected cost reductions, capital adequacy, expectations regarding demand and acceptance for our technologies, growth opportunities and trends in the market in which we operate, prospects and plans and objectives of management. The words anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, projects, will, would and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems, and offer services related to our products. We are the world s first vertically integrated sustainable energy company, offering end-to-end clean energy products, including generation, storage and consumption. We generally sell our products directly to customers, including through our website and retail locations. We also continue to grow our customer-facing infrastructure through a global network of vehicle service centers, Mobile Service technicians, body shops, Supercharger stations and Destination Chargers to accelerate the widespread adoption of our products. We emphasize performance, attractive styling and the safety of our users and workforce in the design and manufacture of our products, and are continuing to develop full self-driving technology for improved safety. We also strive to lower the cost of ownership for our customers through continuous efforts to reduce manufacturing costs and by offering financial services tailored to our vehicles. Our sustainable energy products, engineering expertise, intense focus to accelerate the world s transition to sustainable energy and achieve the benefits of autonomous driving, and business model differentiate us from other companies. We currently offer or are planning to introduce electric vehicles to address a wide range of consumer and commercial vehicle markets, including Model 3, Model Y, Model S, Model X, Cybertruck, Tesla Semi and a new Tesla Roadster. In order to meet customers range, functionality and performance expectations, we have employed our considerable design and vehicle engineering capabilities to overcome the design, styling and performance issues that have historically limited broad adoption of electric vehicles. Combined with technical advancements in our powertrain system, Autopilot and Full Self-Driving ( FSD ) hardware, and neural net, our electric vehicles boast advantages such as leading range and recharging flexibility superior acceleration, handling and safety characteristics a unique suite of user convenience and infotainment features the ability to have additional features enabled through over-the-air updates and savings in charging, maintenance and other costs of ownership. In furtherance of our mission to accelerate the world s transition to sustainable energy, we have also developed an expertise in solar energy systems. We sell and lease retrofit solar energy systems for residential and commercial customers, and alternatively provide certain customers with access to our solar energy systems through power purchase or subscription-based arrangements. We also offer the Solar Roof, which features attractive and durable glass roof tiles integrated with solar energy generation. Our approach to the solar business emphasizes simplicity, standardization and accessibility to make it easy and cost-effective for customers to adopt clean energy, while reducing our customer acquisition costs. Finally, we have leveraged our technological expertise in batteries, energy management, power electronics, and integrated systems from our vehicle powertrain systems to develop and manufacture energy storage products, including Powerwall, Powerpack and Megapack. These scalable systems may be used in homes, commercial facilities and on the utility grid, and are capable of numerous applications including backup or off-grid power, peak demand reduction, demand response, reducing intermittency of renewable energy generation, facilitation of the use of renewable energy generation over fossil fuel generation, and other grid services and wholesale electric market services. Drawing on our solar business expertise, we can also offer integrated systems combining energy generation and storage. Like our vehicles, our energy storage products can be remotely updated over-the-air with software or firmware improvements. Segment Information We operate as two reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy generation and storage. The automotive segment includes the design, development, manufacturing, sales, and leasing of electric vehicles as well as sales of automotive regulatory credits. Additionally, the automotive segment is also comprised of services and other, which includes non-warranty after-sales vehicle services, sales of used vehicles, retail merchandise, sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers, and vehicle insurance revenue. The energy generation and storage segment includes the design, manufacture, installation, sales, and leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products, services related to such products, and sales of solar energy system incentives. 1 Our Products and Services Automotive Model 3 Model 3 is a four-door mid-size sedan that we designed for manufacturability with a base price for mass-market appeal, which we began delivering in July 2017. We currently manufacture Model 3 at the Fremont Factory as well as at Gigafactory Shanghai, where we are ramping production with an installed annual production capacity for 150,000 Model 3 vehicles. We currently offer Model 3 in rear-wheel drive and dual motor all-wheel drive variants, including a Performance version of the latter. Model Y Model Y is a compact sport utility vehicle ( SUV ) built on the Model 3 platform with the capability for seating for up to seven adults, which we began producing in January 2020 and expect to commence delivering in the first quarter of 2020. We currently manufacture Model Y at the Fremont Factory, and are further ramping production there and making preparations for production next at Gigafactory Shanghai. We currently offer Model Y in dual motor all-wheel drive Long Range and Performance versions. Model S and Model X Model S is a four-door full-size sedan that we began delivering in June 2012. Model S introduced Tesla vehicle mainstays such as a large touchscreen driver interface, Autopilot hardware, over-the-air software updates, and fast charging through our Supercharger network. Model X is a mid-size SUV with seating for up to seven adults, which we began delivering in September 2015. Model X introduced features including unique falcon wing doors for easy access to passenger seating and an all-glass panoramic windshield. Model S and Model X feature the highest performance characteristics and longest ranges that we offer in a sedan and SUV, respectively. These vehicles are equipped with a standard dual motor all-wheel drive powertrain, and are also available in Performance versions with enhanced acceleration and/or top speed and styling. We manufacture Model S and Model X at the Fremont Factory. Future Consumer and Commercial Electric Vehicles In addition, we have unveiled a number of planned electric vehicles to address a broader cross-section of the vehicle market, including specialized consumer electric vehicles in Cybertruck and the new Tesla Roadster and a commercial electric vehicle in Tesla Semi. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Products We began deliveries of the current generations of our Powerwall and Powerpack products in late 2016 and 2017, respectively, and of our Megapack product in late 2019. Powerwall is a 13.5 kilowatt hour ( kWh ) rechargeable lithium-ion battery with integrated inverter, designed to store energy at a home or small commercial facility. Powerpack and Megapack are fully integrated energy storage solutions for commercial, industrial, utility and energy generation customers, comprised of up to 232kWh (AC) battery packs and up to 700 kilovolt-ampere (at 480V) inverters for Powerpack and up to 3 megawatt hour ( MWh ) (AC) battery packs and up to 1.54 megavolt-ampere inverters for Megapack, multiple units of which may be grouped together to form larger installations, capable of reaching gigawatt hours ( GWh ) or greater. Powerpack and Megapack can also be combined with renewable energy generation sources to create microgrids that provide communities with clean, resilient and affordable power. We also develop and advance our software capabilities for the control and optimal dispatch of energy storage systems across a wide range of markets and applications, which can be sent to our systems through over-the-air updates. 2 Solar Energy Offerings The major components of our retrofit solar energy systems include solar panels that convert sunlight into electrical current, inverters that convert the electrical output from the panels to a usable current compatible with the electric grid, racking that attaches the solar panels to the roof or ground, electrical hardware that connects the solar energy system to the electric grid, and our monitoring device. We purchase the majority of these components, and we do so from multiple sources to ensure competitive pricing and adequate supply. We also design and manufacture certain components for our solar energy products. In addition to selling retrofit solar energy systems to customers and certain channel partners, we also make them available through lease and power purchase agreement ( PPA ) arrangements, currently with 20-year terms and typically with renewal options, and a subscription-based sale of solar power, which is currently available in California. In 2019, we commenced direct customer and channel partner sales of the third generation of our Solar Roof, which features aesthetically pleasing and durable glass roofing tiles designed to complement the architecture of homes and commercial buildings while turning sunlight into electricity. We are ramping the volume production of this version of the Solar Roof at Gigafactory New York, and are increasing our installation capabilities by training our personnel and third party partners. Technology Automotive Our core vehicle technology competencies include battery and powertrain engineering and manufacturing, as well as our ability to design vehicles that utilize the unique advantages of an electric powertrain. Our core intellectual property includes our electric powertrain and our work on developing self-driving technologies. Our powertrain consists of our battery pack, power electronics, motor, gearbox, and control software. We offer several powertrain variants for our vehicles that incorporate years of research and development. In addition, we have designed our vehicles to incorporate the latest advances in consumer technologies, such as mobile computing, sensing, displays, and connectivity. Battery and Powertrain We optimize the design of the lithium-ion cells we use and of our battery packs to achieve high energy density at decreasing costs while also maintaining safety, reliability and long life in the rigors of an automotive environment. Our proprietary technology includes systems for high density energy storage, cooling, safety, charge balancing, structural durability, and electronics management. We have also pioneered advanced manufacturing techniques to manufacture large volumes of battery packs with high quality at low cost. Moreover, we maintain extensive testing and R D capabilities for battery cells, packs and systems, and have built an expansive body of knowledge on lithium-ion cell vendors, chemistry types and performance characteristics. We believe that the flexibility that we have built into our designs, combined with our research and real-world performance data, will enable us to continue to evaluate new battery cells and optimize battery pack system performance and cost for our current and future vehicles. The power electronics in our electric powertrain govern the flow of electrical current throughout our vehicles as needed, convert direct current from the battery pack into alternating current to drive our vehicles motors (and vice versa from an external electricity source to charge the battery pack), and provide regenerative braking functionality. The primary technological advantages to our proprietary power electronics designs include the ability to drive large amounts of electrical current in a small physical package with high efficiency and low cost, and to recharge on a wide variety of electricity sources at home, at the office or on the road, including at our Superchargers. We offer dual motor powertrain vehicles, which use two electric motors to maximize traction and performance in an all-wheel drive configuration. Tesla s dual motor powertrain digitally and independently controls torque to the front and rear wheels. The near-instantaneous response of the motors, combined with low centers of gravity, provides drivers with controlled performance and increased traction control. We are also developing vehicle powertrain technology featuring three electric motors for further increased performance. 3 Vehicle Control and Infotainment Software The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs require sophisticated control software. There are numerous processors in our vehicles to control these functions, and we write custom firmware for many of these processors. Software algorithms control traction, vehicle stability, the acceleration and regenerative braking of the vehicle, climate control and thermal management, and are also used extensively to monitor the charge state of the battery pack and to manage all of its safety systems. Drivers use the information and control systems in our vehicles to optimize performance, customize vehicle behavior, manage charging modes and times and control all infotainment functions. We develop almost all of this software, including most of the user interfaces, internally. Self-Driving Development We have expertise in developing technologies, systems and software to achieve self-driving vehicles. We are equipping all new Tesla vehicles with hardware needed for full self-driving in the future, including a new powerful and proprietary on-board computer that we introduced in 2019. This hardware suite enables field data from the on-board camera, radar, ultrasonics, and GPS to continually train and improve our neural network for real-world performance. Currently, we offer in our vehicles certain advanced driver assist systems under our Autopilot and FSD options, including auto-steering, traffic aware cruise control, automated lane changing, automated parking, driver warning systems, and a Smart Summon feature that enables vehicles to be remotely summoned over short distances in parking lots and driveways. These systems relieve our drivers of the most tedious and potentially dangerous aspects of road travel, and the field data feedback loops from the on-board hardware, as well as over-the-air firmware updates, allow us to improve them over time. Although at present the driver is ultimately responsible for controlling the vehicle, our systems provide safety and convenience functionality that allows our customers to rely on them much like the system that airplane pilots use when conditions permit. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Products We are leveraging many of the component-level technologies from our vehicles to advance our energy storage products, including high density energy storage, cooling, safety, charge balancing, structural durability, and electronics management. By taking a modular approach to the design of battery systems, we are able to maximize manufacturing capacity to produce our Powerwall, Powerpack and Megapack products. Additionally, we are making significant strides in the area of bi-directional, grid-tied power electronics that enable us to interconnect our battery systems seamlessly with global electricity grids while providing fast-acting systems for power injection and absorption. Solar Energy Systems We are continually innovating and developing new technologies to facilitate the growth of our solar energy business. For example, we have developed proprietary software to reduce solar energy system design and installation timelines and costs, and the Solar Roof is designed to work seamlessly with Powerwall. Design and Engineering Automotive We have created significant in-house capabilities in the design and test engineering of electric vehicles and their components and systems. We design, engineer and test bodies, chassis, exteriors, interiors, heating and cooling and low voltage electrical systems in-house, and to a lesser extent, in conjunction with our suppliers. Our team has core competencies in computer aided design and crash test simulations, which reduces the product development time of new models. We continue to grow our capabilities, including for on-site crash testing, durability testing and component validation. 4 Additionally, our team has expertise in selecting and working with various materials. For example, given the impact of mass on range, which is very important for passenger vehicles, Model S and Model X are built with lightweight aluminum bodies and chassis which incorporate a variety of materials and production methods that help optimize vehicle weight, and Model 3 and Model Y are built with a mix of materials to be lightweight and safe while also increasing cost-effectiveness for these mass-market vehicles. On the other hand, to accommodate the durability required of work vehicles, we plan to use a thick cold-rolled stainless steel alloy and ultra-strong glass for Cybertruck while employing our expertise in battery engineering to maintain excellent range. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Products We have an in-house engineering team that both designs our energy storage products themselves, and works with our residential, commercial and utility customers to design bespoke systems incorporating our products. Our team s expertise in electrical, mechanical, civil and software engineering enables us to create integrated energy storage solutions that meet the various and particular needs of our customers. Solar Energy Systems We also have an in-house team that designs a customized solar energy system or Solar Roof for each of our customers, including an integrated energy storage system when requested by the customer. We have developed software that simplifies and expedites the design process and optimizes the design to maximize the energy production of each system. This team completes a structural analysis of each building and produces a full set of structural design and electrical blueprints that contain the specifications for all system components. Additionally, this team specifies complementary mounting and grounding hardware where required. Sales and Marketing Historically, we have been able to generate significant media coverage of our company and our products, and we believe we will continue to do so. Such media coverage and word of mouth are the current primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively low marketing costs. Automotive Direct Sales We market and sell our vehicles directly to customers using means that we believe will maximize our reach, improve the overall customer experience and maximize capital efficiency. Currently, our sales channels include our website and an international network of company-owned stores. In some states, we have also opened galleries to educate and inform customers about our products, but such locations do not actually transact in the sale of vehicles. We believe this infrastructure enables us to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, educate consumers about electric vehicles and charging, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand, and obtain rapid customer feedback. We reevaluate our sales strategy both globally and at a location-by-location level from time to time to optimize our current sales channels. Sales of vehicles in the automobile industry also tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to volatility from time to time. Used Vehicle Sales Our used vehicle business supports new vehicle sales by integrating the sale of a new Tesla vehicle with a customer s trade-in needs for their existing Tesla and non-Tesla vehicles. The Tesla and non-Tesla vehicles we acquire through trade-ins are subsequently remarketed, either directly by us or through third-parties. We also receive used Tesla vehicles to resell through lease returns and other sources. 5 Public Charging We continue to build out our global Supercharger network for our customers convenience, including to enable long-distance travel and urban ownership, which is a part of our strategy to remove a barrier to the broader adoption of electric vehicles caused by the perception of limited range. Each Tesla Supercharger is an industrial grade, high-speed charger designed to recharge a Tesla vehicle significantly more quickly than other charging options, and we continue to evolve our technology to allow for even faster charging times at lower cost to us. Where possible, we are co-locating Superchargers with our solar and energy storage systems to further reduce costs and promote renewable power. Supercharger stations typically are strategically placed along well-traveled routes and in dense city centers to allow Tesla vehicle owners the ability to enjoy quick, reliable and ubiquitous charging with convenient, minimal stops. Use of the Supercharger network is either free under certain sales programs or requires a competitive fee. We also work with a wide variety of hospitality, retail, and public destinations, as well as businesses with commuting employees, to offer additional charging options for our customers. These Destination Charging and workplace locations deploy Tesla Wall Connectors to provide charging to Tesla vehicle owners who patronize or are employed at their businesses. We also work with single-family homeowners and multi-family residential entities to deploy home charging solutions in our communities. Energy Generation and Storage We market and sell our solar and energy storage products to individuals, commercial and industrial customers and utilities through a variety of channels. In the U.S., we offer residential solar and energy storage products directly through our website, stores and galleries, as well as through our network of channel partners. Outside of the U.S., we use our international sales organization and a network of channel partners to market and sell these products for the residential market. We also sell Powerwall directly to utilities. In the case of products sold to such utilities or channel partners, such partners typically sell and install the product in customer homes. We sell Powerpack and Megapack systems to commercial and utility customers through our international sales organization, which consists of experienced energy industry professionals in all of our target markets, as well as through our channel partner network. In certain jurisdictions, we also sell installed solar energy systems (with or without energy storage) to commercial customers through cash, lease and PPA transactions. Service and Warranty Automotive Service We provide service for our electric vehicles at our company-owned service locations and through an expanding fleet of Tesla Mobile Service technicians who provide services that do not require a vehicle lift remotely at customers homes or other locations. Performing vehicle service ourselves provides us with the capability to identify problems, find solutions, and incorporate improvements faster, and optimize logistics and inventory for service parts better, than traditional automobile manufacturers. Our vehicles are also designed with the capability to wirelessly upload data to us via an on-board system with cellular connectivity, allowing us to diagnose and remedy many problems before ever looking at the vehicle. Vehicle Limited Warranty and Extended Service Plans We provide a manufacturer s warranty on all new and used Tesla vehicles. Each new vehicle has a four year or 50,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty, subject to separate limited warranties for the supplemental restraint system, battery and drive unit, and body rust perforation. For the battery and drive unit on our current new Model S and Model X vehicles, we offer an eight year, 150,000 mile limited warranty, with minimum 70% retention of battery capacity over the warranty period. For the battery and drive unit on our current new Model 3 and Model Y vehicles, we offer an eight year or 100,000 mile limited warranty for our Standard or Standard Range Plus battery and an eight year or 120,000 mile limited warranty for our Long Range or Performance battery, with minimum 70% retention of battery capacity over the warranty period. 6 In addition to the New Vehicle Limited Warranty, we currently offer for Model S and Model X Extended Service plans for new vehicle s in specified regions . The Extended Service plans cover the repair or replacement of vehicle parts for up to an additional four years or up to an additional 50,000 miles after the expiration of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Systems We generally provide a 10-year no defect and energy retention warranty with every current Powerwall and a 15-year no defect and energy retention warranty with every current Powerpack or Megapack system. Pursuant to these energy retention warranties, we guarantee that the energy capacity of the applicable product will be at least a specified percentage (within a range up to 80%) of its nameplate capacity during specified time periods, depending on the product, battery pack size and/or region of installation, and subject to specified use restrictions or kWh throughputs caps. In addition, we offer certain extended warranties, which customers are able to purchase from us at the time they purchase an energy storage system, including a 20 year extended protection plan for Powerwall and a selection of 10 or 20 year performance guarantees for Powerpack and Megapack. In circumstances where we install a Powerwall or Powerpack system, we also provide certain warranties on our installation workmanship. All of the warranties for our energy storage systems are subject to customary limitations and exclusions. Solar Energy Systems For retrofit solar energy systems, we provide a workmanship warranty for up to 20 years from installation and a separate warranty against roof leaks. We also pass-through the inverter and module manufacturer warranties (typically 10 years and 25 years respectively). When we lease a retrofit solar energy system, we compensate the customer if their system produces less energy than guaranteed over a specified period. For the Solar Roof, we provide a warranty against defects for 25 years, a 25 year weatherization warranty and a power output warranty. For all systems (retrofit and Solar Roof) we also provide service and repair (either under warranty or for a fee) during the entire term of the customer relationship. Financial Services Automotive Purchase Financing and Leases We offer leasing and/or loan financing arrangements for our vehicles in certain jurisdictions in North America, Euro