Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11. Executive Compensation 86 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 86 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 87 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 87 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 87 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 94 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Tyson Foods, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company, we, us, our, Tyson Foods or Tyson ) (NYSE: TSN) is one of the world s largest food companies and a recognized leader in protein. Founded in 1935 by John W. Tyson and grown under four generations of family leadership, the Company has a broad portfolio of products and brands including Tyson , Jimmy Dean , Hillshire Farm , Ball Park , Wright , Aidells , ibp and State Fair . Tyson Foods innovates continually to make protein more sustainable, tailor food for everywhere it s available and raise the world s expectations for how much good food can do. Headquartered in Springdale, Arkansas, the Company had approximately 142,000 employees ( team members ) on October 1, 2022. Through our Core Values, Tyson Foods is a company of people engaged in the production of food, seeking to pursue trust and integrity, and committed to creating value for our shareholders, our customers, our team members and our communities. We strive to be honorable and operate with integrity, be faith-friendly and inclusive, serve as stewards of the resources entrusted to us and provide a safe work environment. Some of the key factors influencing our business are customer demand for our products; the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace; accessibility of international markets; market prices for our products; the cost and availability of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and feed ingredients; availability of team members to operate our production facilities; and operating efficiencies of our facilities. We operate a fully vertically-integrated chicken production process with the majority of our production certified as no antibiotic ever (sometimes referred to as NAE ). Our integrated operations consist of breeding stock, contract farmers, feed production, processing, further-processing, marketing and transportation of chicken and related specialty products, including animal and pet food ingredients. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cobb-Vantress, we are one of the leading poultry breeding stock suppliers in the world. Investing in breeding stock research and development allows us to breed into our flocks the characteristics found to be most desirable. We also process live fed cattle and hogs and fabricate dressed beef and pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts, case-ready beef and pork and fully-cooked meats. In addition, we derive value from specialty products such as hides and variety meats sold to further processors and others. We produce a wide range of fresh, value-added, frozen and refrigerated food products. Our products are marketed and sold primarily by our sales staff to grocery retailers, grocery wholesalers, meat distributors, warehouse club stores, military commissaries, industrial food processing companies, chain restaurants or their distributors, live markets, international export companies and domestic distributors who serve restaurants, foodservice operations such as plant and school cafeterias, convenience stores, hospitals and other vendors. Additionally, sales to the military and a portion of sales to international markets are made through independent brokers and trading companies. As part of our commitment to innovation and growth, we have a subsidiary focused on investing in companies developing breakthrough technologies, business models and products to sustainably feed a growing world population. Tyson New Ventures, LLC is used to broaden our exposure to innovative, new forms of protein and ways of sustainably producing food to complement the Company s continuing investments in innovation in our core Beef, Pork, Chicken and Prepared Foods businesses. FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF SEGMENTS We operate in four reportable segments: Beef, Pork, Chicken and Prepared Foods. We measure segment profit as operating income (loss). International/Other primarily includes our foreign operations in Australia, China, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, South Korea and Thailand, third-party merger and integration costs and corporate overhead related to Tyson New Ventures, LLC. The contribution of each segment to net sales and operating income (loss), and the identifiable assets attributable to each segment, are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17: Segment Reporting. DESCRIPTION OF SEGMENTS Beef Beef includes our operations related to processing live fed cattle and fabricating dressed beef carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts and case-ready products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes sales from specialty products such as hides and variety meats, as well as logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. Pork Pork includes our operations related to processing live market hogs and fabricating pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal cuts and case-ready products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes our live swine group, related specialty product processing activities and logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. 2 Chicken Chicken includes our domestic operations related to raising and processing live chickens into, and purchasing raw materials for fresh, frozen and value-added chicken products, as well as sales from specialty products. Our value-added chicken products primarily include breaded chicken strips, nuggets, patties and other ready-to-fix or fully cooked chicken parts. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, convenience stores, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes logistics operations to move products through our domestic supply chain and the global operations of our chicken breeding stock subsidiary. Prepared Foods Prepared Foods includes our operations related to manufacturing and marketing frozen and refrigerated food products and logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. This segment includes brands such as Jimmy Dean , Hillshire Farm , Ball Park , Wright , State Fair , as well as artisanal brands Aidells and Gallo Salame . Products primarily include ready-to-eat sandwiches, sandwich components such as flame-grilled hamburgers and Philly steaks, pepperoni, bacon, breakfast sausage, turkey, lunchmeat, hot dogs, flour and corn tortilla products, appetizers, snacks, prepared meals, ethnic foods, side dishes, meat dishes, breadsticks and processed meats. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, convenience stores, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY Beef The primary raw materials used in our beef operations are live cattle. We do not have facilities of our own to raise cattle but employ cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit independent feed yards and public auctions to buy live cattle on the open spot market. These buyers are trained to select high quality animals, and we continually measure their performance. We also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers to secure a supply of livestock for our facilities. Although we generally expect adequate supply of live cattle in the regions we operate, there may be periods of imbalance in supply and demand. Pork The primary raw materials used in our pork operations are live hogs. The majority of our live hog supply is obtained through various procurement relationships with independent producers. We employ hog buyers who make purchase agreements of various time durations as well as purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are processed. These buyers are trained to select high quality animals, and we continually measure their performance. We believe the supply of live hogs is adequate for our present needs. Additionally, we raise a small number of weanling swine to sell to independent finishers and supply a minimal amount of market hogs and live swine for our own processing needs. Although we generally expect adequate supply of live hogs in the regions we operate, there may be periods of imbalance in supply and demand. Chicken The primary raw materials used in our domestic chicken operations are corn and soybean meal used as feed and live chickens raised primarily by independent contract farmers. Our vertically-integrated chicken process begins with the grandparent breeder flocks and ends with broilers for processing. Breeder flocks (i.e., grandparents) are raised to maturity in grandparent growing and laying farms where fertile eggs are produced. Fertile eggs are incubated at the grandparent hatchery and produce pullets (i.e., parents). Pullets are raised to 20 weeks of age, sent to breeder houses, and the resulting eggs are sent to our hatcheries. Once chicks have hatched, they are sent to broiler farms. There, contract farmers care for and raise the chicks according to our standards, with advice from our technical service personnel, until the broilers reach the desired processing weight. Adult chickens are transported to processing facilities where they are harvested and converted into finished products, which are then sent to distribution centers and delivered to customers. We operate feed mills to produce scientifically-formulated feeds. In fiscal 2022, corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients were major production costs, representing roughly 62% of our cost of growing a live chicken domestically. In addition to feed ingredients to grow the chickens, we use cooking ingredients, packaging materials and cryogenic agents. We believe our sources of supply for these materials are adequate for our present needs, and we do not anticipate any difficulty in acquiring these materials in the future. While we produce nearly all our inventory of breeder chickens and live broilers, we also purchase ice-packed or deboned chicken to meet production and sales requirements. Prepared Foods The primary raw materials used in our prepared foods operations are commodity-based raw materials, including beef, pork, chicken, turkey, flour, vegetables, cheese, eggs, seasonings and other cooking ingredients. Some of these raw materials are provided by our other segments, while others may be purchased from numerous suppliers and manufacturers. We believe the sources of supply of raw materials are adequate for our present needs. 3 SEASONAL DEMAND Demand for beef, chicken and certain prepared foods products, such as hot dogs and smoked sausage, generally increases during the spring and summer months and generally decreases during the winter months. Pork and certain other prepared foods products, such as prepared meals, meat dishes, appetizers and breakfast sausage, generally experience increased demand during the winter months, primarily due to the holiday season, while demand generally decreases during the spring and summer months. CUSTOMERS Walmart Inc. accounted for 17.7 % of our fiscal 2022 consolidated sales. Sales to Walmart Inc. were included in all of our segments. Any extended discontinuance of sales to this customer could, if not replaced, have a material impact on our operations. No other single customer or customer group represented more than 10% of fiscal 2022 consolidated sales. COMPETITION Our food products compete with those of other food producers and processors and certain prepared food manufacturers. Additionally, our food products compete in markets around the world. We seek to achieve a leading market position for our products via our principal marketing and competitive strategy, which includes: identifying target markets for value-added products; concentrating production, sales and marketing efforts to appeal to and enhance demand from those markets; and utilizing our national distribution systems and customer support services. Past efforts indicate customer demand can be increased and sustained through application of our marketing strategy, as supported by our distribution systems. The principal competitive elements are price, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of products, customer service and credit terms. FOREIGN OPERATIONS We sold products in approximately 140 countries and regions in fiscal 2022. Major sales markets include Australia, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Japan, Mexico, Malaysia, the Middle East, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. We have the following foreign operations: Cobb-Vantress, a chicken breeding stock subsidiary, has business interests in Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, India, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, the Philippines, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Tyson Asia-Pacific consists of vertically-integrated chicken production operations in Thailand, multi-protein further-processing operations in Malaysia, a beef production operation in Australia, and joint venture interests in two non-consolidated poultry businesses in Malaysia. Tyson China-Korea, with locations in China and South Korea, consists of vertically-integrated chicken production operations, multi-protein further-processing operations, and a joint venture interest in a non-consolidated chicken processing business. Tyson China also sells beef, pork, and chicken products imported from Tyson production facilities in the United States and other global operations. Tyson Europe sells chicken products throughout the United Kingdom and Europe produced from our other global operations and co-packer arrangements and has a chicken further processing operation in the Netherlands. Vibra Agroindustrial S.A., a joint venture in Brazil in which we have a minority interest, is a vertically-integrated chicken processing business. Holding Agro Industrial S.A., a joint venture in Argentina and Uruguay in which we have a minority interest, is a vertically-integrated chicken processing business. Godrej Tyson Foods, a joint venture in India in which we have a minority interest, is primarily a chicken processing business. Tyson Mexico Trading Company, a Mexican subsidiary, sells chicken and prepared foods products primarily from our U.S. operations and co-packer arrangements. We continue to evaluate growth opportunities in foreign locations. Additional information regarding export sales and long-lived assets located in foreign locations is set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17: Segment Reporting. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We conduct continuous research and development activities to improve product development, to automate manual processes in our processing facilities and grow-out operations, and to improve chicken breeding stock. With regards to our domestic food products we have two primary research and development locations, our Discovery Center in Springdale, Arkansas, and an Innovation Center located in Downers Grove, Illinois. The centers include more than 80,000 square feet of United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) pilot plant space, two consumer sensory and focus group areas, two packaging labs and 25 research kitchens. The centers enable us to bring new market-leading retail and foodservice products to the customer quickly and efficiently. Additionally, we have a Manufacturing Automation Center in Springdale, Arkansas, designed to grow the development of new manufacturing solutions and to enhance team member training on new technology. Further, we have research and development capabilities located in several international locations where we operate. 4 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND FOOD SAFETY Environmental Regulation Our facilities for processing beef, pork, chicken, turkey and prepared foods, milling feed and housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which include provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment and generally provide for protection of the environment. We believe we are in substantial compliance with such applicable laws and regulations and are not aware of any violations of such laws and regulations likely to result in material penalties or material increases in compliance costs. The cost of compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and except as described below, is not anticipated to have a material adverse effect in the future. Food Safety We work to ensure our products meet high standards of food safety and quality. In addition to our own internal Food Safety and Quality Assurance oversight and review, our beef, pork, chicken, and prepared foods products are subject to inspection, primarily by the USDA and the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ). We also participate in the USDA s Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points ( HACCP ) program or FDA s Hazard Analysis and Risk-Based Prevention Controls ( HARPC ) program as applicable and are subject to the Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures and the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. Additionally, our foreign operations are subject to various other food safety and quality assurance oversight and review. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Congress, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, some states and non-U.S. governments continue to consider various options to control greenhouse gas emissions. It is unclear at this time what options, if any, will be finalized, and whether such options would have a direct impact on the Company. Although we have not incurred significant costs or capital expenditures, due to continuing uncertainty surrounding this issue, it is premature to speculate on the specific nature of impacts that imposition of greenhouse gas emission controls would have on us and whether such impacts would have a material adverse effect. Tyson closely monitors developments in this area, and voluntarily sets goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) criteria, including our ambition to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. We continue to evaluate the plans and associated costs of achieving our greenhouse gas emission reduction goals. Sustainability We have aligned our business priorities with our sustainability strategy by reimagining our people and community impact, driving product responsibility from farm to table and working toward sustaining natural resources and achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions. We are reimagining our people and community impact by enabling workers to succeed while supporting the growth of our communities. We aim to drive product responsibility from farm to table by delivering value to consumers with high-quality, sustainable, nutritious protein through leading portfolio of products. Additionally, we are working toward sustaining natural resources and achieving net zero by driving practices in our own operations and supply chains to more sustainably produce protein for a growing population within planetary boundaries. In fiscal 2022, we announced our partnership with the USDA through a Partnerships for Climate-Smart Commodities grant to support the adoption of sustainable agriculture practices. With the help of the USDA grant, we plan to execute a five-year program that implements trainings, incentives and verifications to improve farmer and rancher livelihoods, increase carbon sequestration and work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our supply chain and beyond. Approximately 75% of the USDA grant funding for the project will go directly to farmers and ranchers, providing incentive payments and technical assistance to those adopting climate-smart practices, with the remaining 25% supporting program measurement, monitoring, reporting and validating. We have also partnered with World Resources Institute to assess water risk and develop a water stewardship strategy, completed construction of Tyson Foods Center for Sustainable Broiler Research, and announced our global forest protection standard following deforestation risk assessment. Additionally, we established sustainability governance and oversight through the Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors. This Committee advises the Board on matters relating to corporate responsibility and sustainability, including environmental, social and governance matters affecting the Company. It also oversees the Company s key programs and oversees and reviews, at least annually, the Company s integration of sustainability principles into our business strategy and decision-making. 5 HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Employees and Labor Relations As of October 1, 2022, we employed approximately 142,000 team members globally. Approximately 124,000 team members were employed in the United States, of whom approximately 118,000 were employed at non-corporate sites such as production facilities, warehouses, truck shops, hatcheries and feed mills. Approximately 18,000 team members were employed in other countries, primarily in Thailand and China. For fiscal 2022, our domestic workforce experienced a 1% decrease in retention rate from fiscal 2021 primarily driven by macro trends associated with a challenging labor environment. Approximately 35,000 team members in the United States were subject to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions, with approximately 2% of those team members at locations either under negotiation for contract renewal or included under agreements expiring in fiscal 2023. The remaining agreements expire over the next several years. Approximately 7,000 team members in other countries were subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe our overall relations with our workforce in both unionized and non-union settings are healthy. Health, Safety, and Wellbeing We maintain a safety culture grounded on the premise of eliminating workplace incidents, risks and identified hazards. To keep our team members safe, we focus on ensuring that all team members receive appropriate training and equipment. For example, every production facility team member completes at least 13 hours of compliance, safety and food safety training per year, and new hourly employees receive 120 hours of classroom and on-the-job orientation. We created and implemented processes to help identify and eliminate safety events by reducing their frequency and severity. We also review and monitor our safety performance closely. Our goal is to reduce Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) recordable incidents year over year. During fiscal 2022, our recordable incident rate declined 5% compared to fiscal 2021. As an expansion of our wellbeing culture and efforts to boost the overall health and wellness of our workforce, we continue to pilot health clinics near our production facilities, giving team members and their families easier access to high-quality healthcare. In response to the COVID-19 global pandemic ("COVID-19 pandemic", "COVID-19", "pandemic") and its related variants, we implemented and continue to implement various health, safety, and sanitation measures in all of our facilities. In addition to our Chief Medical Officer, we have approximately 600 occupational health nurses and administrative support staff to assist in our ongoing efforts to protect frontline team members during the COVID-19 pandemic while also enhancing our culture of health, safety and wellbeing. We continue to educate our U.S. team members about COVID-19 vaccines and boosters, provide our U.S. team members, their families and members of their household access to COVID-19 vaccines, boosters and case assessment of team members affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE I) We believe that diversity, equity, and inclusion ( DE I ) is our strength. Our Company is diverse and consists of team members with a variety of experiences, backgrounds, beliefs, and lifestyles. Our workforce consists of approximately 40% women and over 60% minority groups. We strive to continue cultivating a culture and vision that supports DE I in every aspect of our business, from recruiting to individual development and team member engagement, with the objective of promoting and retaining talent. We also believe that having engaged team members with a sense of belonging is paramount to our continued success. The Company has eight employee-led business resource groups that support our team members and assist with efforts to build a culture of inclusion to ensure that everyone feels respected and valued. These groups are also strategically engaged to support DE I initiatives as they are developed and implemented at the enterprise level. Some of our functional teams have also engaged formal DE I councils to inform special projects and initiatives and many production facilities routinely host local diversity committees. Talent and Development Our talent strategy and philosophy Grow With Us is focused on attracting the best talent, recognizing and rewarding performance, while continually developing, engaging and retaining our team members. We focus on the team member experience, removing barriers to engagement, further modernizing the human resources process, focusing on frontline team member retention and continually improving equity and effectiveness of all talent practices. Consistent with this focus, we conducted our third OneTyson engagement survey, that included corporate and frontline team members for the purpose of evaluating our team member experience, internal performance and how we compared to other companies in multiple areas. In addition, through our Upward Academy Onsite Program, we offer English as a second language, high-school equivalency, citizenship, financial literacy and digital literacy training to all team members. As of October 1, 2022, the onsite program was operating at 36 Company locations. To expand access to Upward Academy to all team members, we have also launched Upward Academy online, a frontline career development program. This program helps team members further hone professional skills and creates opportunities for our team members to advance to higher-paying, more senior-level positions within the Company through college degrees, job skills training and workforce certifications at no cost. We have a goal to be the most sought after company within our markets and peer groups. We strive to grow and develop the different capabilities and skills that we need for the future, while maintaining a robust pipeline of talent throughout the organization. 6 MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Our principal marketing objective is to be the preferred provider of beef, pork, chicken and prepared foods products for our customers and consumers. We build the Tyson , Jimmy Dean , Hillshire Farm , Ball Park , Wright , Aidells , ibp and State Fair brands while supporting strong regional and emerging brands primarily through distinctive brand and product advertising, promotion, and public relations efforts focused toward key consumer targets with specific needs. We identify growth and business opportunities through consumer and customer insights derived via leading research and analytic capabilities. We utilize our national distribution system and customer support services to achieve the leading market position for our products and brands. We have the ability to produce and ship fresh, frozen and refrigerated products worldwide. Domestically, our distribution system extends to a broad network of food distributors and is supported by our owned or leased cold storage warehouses, public cold storage 