Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 1C. Cybersecurity Disclosure 17 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 87 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 87 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 88 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 88 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Tyson Foods, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company, we, us, our, Tyson Foods or Tyson ) (NYSE: TSN) is a world-class food company and recognized leader in protein. Founded in 1935 by John W. Tyson, it has grown under four generations of family leadership. The Company is unified by this purpose: Tyson Foods. We Feed the World Like Family and has a broad portfolio of iconic products and brands including Tyson , Jimmy Dean , Hillshire Farm , Ball Park , Wright , State Fair , Aidells and ibp . Tyson Foods is dedicated to bringing high-quality food to every table in the world, safely, sustainably, and affordably, now and for future generations. Headquartered in Springdale, Arkansas, the Company had approximately 138,000 employees ( team members ) on September 28, 2024. Through its Core Values, Tyson Foods strives to operate with integrity, create value for its shareholders, customers, communities and team members, be faith-friendly and inclusive, provide a safe work environment and serve as a steward of the animals, land and environment entrusted to it. Some of the key factors influencing our business are customer demand for our products; the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace; accessibility of international markets; market prices for our products; the cost and availability of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and feed ingredients; availability of team members to operate our production facilities; and operating efficiencies of our facilities. We operate a fully vertically-integrated chicken production process. Our integrated operations consist of breeding stock, contract farmers, feed production, processing, further-processing, marketing and transportation of chicken and related specialty products, including animal and pet food ingredients. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cobb-Vantress, we are one of the leading poultry breeding stock suppliers in the world. Investing in breeding stock research and development allows us to breed into our flocks the characteristics found to be most desirable. We also process live fed cattle and hogs and fabricate dressed beef and pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts, case-ready beef and pork and fully-cooked meats. In addition, we derive value from specialty products such as hides and variety meats sold to further processors and others. We produce a wide range of fresh, value-added, frozen and refrigerated food products. Our products are marketed and sold primarily by our sales staff to grocery retailers, grocery wholesalers, meat distributors, warehouse club stores, military commissaries, industrial food processing companies, chain restaurants or their distributors, live markets, international export companies and domestic distributors who serve restaurants, foodservice operations such as plant and school cafeterias, convenience stores, hospitals and other vendors. Additionally, sales to the military and a portion of sales to international markets are made through independent brokers and trading companies. As part of our commitment to innovation and growth, we have a subsidiary focused on investing in companies developing breakthrough technologies, business models and products that have the potential to transform the food industry. Tyson New Ventures, LLC is used to broaden our exposure to innovative, new forms of protein and ways of improving animal welfare, water management, and packaging and land stewardship initiatives to complement the Company s continuing investments in innovation in our core Beef, Pork, Chicken and Prepared Foods businesses. FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF SEGMENTS We operate in four reportable segments: Beef, Pork, Chicken and Prepared Foods. We measure segment profit as operating income (loss). International/Other primarily includes our foreign operations in Australia, China, Malaysia, Mexico, South Korea, Thailand and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, third-party merger and integration costs and corporate overhead related to Tyson New Ventures, LLC. The contribution of each segment to net sales and operating income (loss), and the identifiable assets attributable to each segment, are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17: Segment Reporting. DESCRIPTION OF SEGMENTS Beef Beef includes our operations related to processing live fed cattle and fabricating dressed beef carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts and case-ready products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes sales from specialty products such as hides, rendered products and variety meats, as well as logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. 3 Pork Pork includes our operations related to processing live market hogs and fabricating pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal cuts and case-ready products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes our live swine group, related specialty product processing activities and logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. Chicken Chicken includes our domestic operations related to raising and processing live chickens into, and purchasing raw materials for fresh, frozen and value-added chicken products, as well as sales from specialty products. Our value-added chicken products primarily include breaded chicken strips, nuggets, patties and other ready-to-fix or fully cooked chicken parts. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, convenience stores, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes logistics operations to move products through our domestic supply chain and the global operations of our chicken breeding stock subsidiary. Prepared Foods Prepared Foods includes our operations related to manufacturing and marketing frozen and refrigerated food products and logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. This segment includes brands such as Jimmy Dean , Hillshire Farm , Ball Park , Wright , State Fair , as well as artisanal brands Aidells and Gallo Salame . Products primarily include ready-to-eat sandwiches, sandwich components such as flame-grilled hamburgers and Philly steaks, pepperoni, bacon, breakfast sausage, turkey, lunchmeat, hot dogs, flour and corn tortilla products, appetizers, snacks, prepared meals, ethnic foods, side dishes, meat dishes, breadsticks and processed meats. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, convenience stores, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY Beef The primary raw materials used in our beef operations are live cattle. We do not have facilities of our own to raise cattle but employ cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit independent feed yards and public auctions to buy live cattle on the open spot market. These buyers are trained to select high quality animals, and we continually measure their performance. We also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers to secure a supply of livestock for our facilities. Although we generally expect adequate supply of live cattle in the regions we operate, there may be periods of imbalance in supply and demand. Pork The primary raw materials used in our pork operations are live hogs. The majority of our live hog supply is obtained through various procurement relationships with independent producers. We employ hog buyers who make purchase agreements of various time durations as well as purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are processed. These buyers are trained to select high quality animals, and we continually measure their performance. Additionally, we raise a small number of weanling swine to sell to independent finishers and to supply a minimal amount of market hogs and live swine for our own processing needs. Although we generally expect adequate supply of live hogs in the regions we operate, there may be periods of imbalance in supply and demand. Chicken The primary raw materials used in our domestic chicken operations are corn and soybean meal used as feed and live chickens raised primarily by independent contract farmers. Our vertically-integrated chicken process begins with breeding our pedigree and great grandparent stock out to produce the grandparent breeder flocks and ends with broilers for processing. Breeder flocks (i.e., grandparents) are raised to maturity in grandparent growing and laying farms where fertile eggs are produced. Fertile eggs are incubated at the grandparent hatchery and produce pullets (i.e., parents). Pullets are raised to 20 weeks of age, sent to breeder houses, and the resulting eggs are sent to our hatcheries. Once chicks have hatched, they are sent to broiler farms. There, contract farmers care for and raise the chicks according to our standards, with advice from our technical service personnel, until the broilers reach the desired processing weight. Adult chickens are transported to processing facilities where they are harvested and converted into finished products, which are then sent to distribution centers and delivered to customers. We operate feed mills to produce scientifically-formulated feeds. In fiscal 2024, corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients were major production costs, representing roughly 56% of our cost of growing a live chicken domestically. In addition to feed ingredients to grow the chickens, we use cooking ingredients, packaging materials and cryogenic agents. We believe our sources of supply for these materials are adequate for our present needs, and we do not anticipate any difficulty in acquiring these materials in the future. While we produce nearly all our inventory of breeder chickens and live broilers, we also purchase ice-packed or deboned chicken to meet production and sales requirements. 4 Prepared Foods The primary raw materials used in our prepared foods operations are commodity-based raw materials, including beef, pork, chicken, turkey, flour, vegetables, cheese, eggs, seasonings and other cooking ingredients. Some of these raw materials are provided by our other segments, while others may be purchased from numerous suppliers and manufacturers. We believe the sources of supply of raw materials are adequate for our present needs. SEASONAL DEMAND Demand for beef, chicken, pork and certain prepared foods products, such as hot dogs and smoked sausage, generally increases during the spring and summer months and other key holiday periods and is generally softer during the winter months. Other prepared foods products, such as prepared meals, meat dishes, appetizers, bacon, and breakfast sausage, generally experience increased demand during the winter months, and also key holiday seasons, while demand generally is softer during the spring and summer months. CUSTOMERS Walmart Inc. accounted for approximately 18.4 % of our fiscal 2024 consolidated sales. Sales to Walmart Inc. were included in all of our segments. Any extended discontinuance of sales to this customer could, if not replaced, have a material impact on our operations. No other single customer or customer group represented more than 10% of fiscal 2024 consolidated sales. COMPETITION Our food products compete with those of other food producers and processors and certain prepared food manufacturers. Additionally, our food products compete in markets around the world. We seek to achieve a leading market position for our products via our principal marketing and competitive strategy, which includes: identifying target markets for value-added products; concentrating production, sales and marketing efforts to appeal to and enhance demand from those markets; and utilizing our national distribution systems and customer support services. Past efforts indicate customer demand can be increased and sustained through application of our marketing strategy, consumer insights, strong analytic analysis to optimize efforts and supported by our distribution systems. The principal competitive elements are advertising, consumer and trade promotions, price, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of products, customer service and credit terms. FOREIGN OPERATIONS We sold products in approximately 140 countries and regions in fiscal 2024. Major sales markets include Australia, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Japan, Mexico, Malaysia, the Middle East, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. We have the following foreign operations: Cobb-Vantress, a chicken breeding stock subsidiary, has business interests in Argentina, Brazil, China, the Dominican Republic, India, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, the Philippines, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Tyson Asia-Pacific consists of vertically-integrated chicken production operations in Thailand, multi-protein further-processing operations in Malaysia, a beef production operation in Australia, a producer and distributor of value-added and cooked chicken and beef products in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and joint venture interests in two non-consolidated poultry businesses in Malaysia and one in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Tyson China-Korea, with locations in China and South Korea, consists of vertically-integrated chicken production operations, multi-protein further-processing operations, and a joint venture interest in a non-consolidated chicken processing business. Tyson China also sells beef, pork, and chicken products imported from Tyson production facilities in the United States and other global operations. Tyson Europe sells chicken products throughout the United Kingdom and Europe produced from our other global operations and co-packer arrangements. Vibra Agroindustrial S.A., a joint venture in Brazil in which we have a minority interest, is a vertically-integrated chicken processing business. Holding Agro Industrial S.A., a joint venture in Argentina and Uruguay in which we have a minority interest, is a vertically-integrated chicken processing business. Tyson Mexico Trading Company, a Mexican subsidiary, sells chicken and prepared foods products primarily from our U.S. operations and co-packer arrangements. We continue to evaluate growth opportunities in foreign locations. Additional information regarding export sales and long-lived assets located in foreign locations is set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17: Segment Reporting. 5 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We conduct continuous research and development activities to improve product development, to automate manual processes in our processing facilities and grow-out operations, and to improve chicken breeding stock. Our Discovery Center in Springdale, Arkansas, includes more than 40,000 square feet of United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) and United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) pilot plant space, consumer sensory and focus group areas, packaging labs and 19 research kitchens. The center enables us to bring new market-leading retail and foodservice products to the customer quickly and efficiently. Additionally, we have a Manufacturing Automation Center in Springdale, Arkansas, designed to grow the development of new manufacturing solutions and to enhance team member training on new technology. Further, we have research and development capabilities located in several international locations where we operate. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND FOOD SAFETY Environmental Regulation Our facilities for processing beef, pork, chicken, turkey and prepared foods, milling feed and housing live chickens and swine are subject to many international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including provisions relating to all environmental media - air, land and water, and generally provide for environmental protection. We believe we are in substantial compliance with such applicable laws and regulations and are not aware of any violations of such laws and regulations likely to result in material penalties or material increases in compliance costs. The cost of compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and except as described below, is not anticipated to have a material adverse effect in the future. Food Safety We work to ensure our products meet high standards of food safety and quality. In addition to our own internal Food Safety and Quality Assurance oversight and review, our beef, pork, chicken, and prepared foods products are subject to inspection, primarily by the USDA and the FDA. We also participate in the USDA s Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points ( HACCP ) program or FDA s Hazard Analysis and Risk-Based Prevention Controls ( HARPC ) program as applicable and are subject to the Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures and the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. Additionally, our foreign operations are subject to various other food safety and quality assurance oversight and review. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Various federal, state, regulatory agencies, and non-U.S. governments continue to consider and adopt programs to regulate, report, and control greenhouse gas emissions. Although we have not incurred significant costs or capital expenditures specific to greenhouse gas emission compliance, these requirements are continually evolving and increasing. As the exact impact of new or additional greenhouse gas emission controls and requirements remains in flux, it cannot be determined whether such impacts would have a material adverse effect. Tyson closely monitors developments in this area and strives to mitigate risks related to greenhouse gas emissions through environmental compliance and climate-related initiatives. For example, we collect and monitor greenhouse gas emissions data, which can be used to inform greenhouse gas emission reduction and removal interventions in our operations and supply chain. We continue to evaluate our climate-related goals and initiatives, including corresponding costs, evolving legal landscapes, stakeholder expectations, and customer and consumer understanding of climate action. Sustainability Through our Formula to Feed the Future, we aim to bring together a diverse set of expertise to reimagine our people and community impact, drive product responsibility from farm to table, and work toward sustaining natural resources. We are reimagining our people and community impact by enabling workers to succeed while supporting the growth of our communities. We aim to drive product responsibility from farm to table by delivering value to consumers with high-quality, nutritious protein through our leading portfolio of products. We are working toward sustaining natural resources by driving practices in our own operations and supply chains to build a robust food system that supports current and future generations. Additionally, we established sustainability governance and oversight through the Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors. This Committee advises the Board on matters relating to corporate responsibility and sustainability, including environmental, social and governance matters affecting the Company. It also oversees and reviews, at least annually, the Company s integration of sustainability principles into our business strategy and decision-making. 6 HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Employees and Labor Relations As of September 28, 2024, we employed approximately 138,000 team members globally. Approximately 120,000 team members were employed in the United States, of whom approximately 114,000 were employed at non-corporate sites such as production facilities, warehouses, truck shops, hatcheries and feed mills. Approximately 18,000 team members were employed in other countries, primarily in Thailand and China. For fiscal 2024, our domestic workforce experienced a relatively flat retention rate from fiscal 2023. Approximately 30,000 team members in the United States were subject to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions, with approximately 20% of those team members at locations either under negotiation for contract renewal or included under agreements expiring in fiscal 2025. The remaining agreements expire over the next several years. Approximately 6,000 team members in other countries were subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe our overall relations with our workforce in both unionized and non-union settings are healthy. Health, Safety and Wellbeing We maintain a safety culture grounded on the premise of eliminating workplace incidents, risks and identified hazards. In an effort to ensure our team members are highly engaged and prepared for success at Tyson Foods, we emphasize comprehensive training programs. Newly hired team members participate in an orientation program that spans 14-16 hours. Team members within our production facilities also receive an average of 80 hours on-the-job training. Additionally, all team members receive comprehensive annual compliance training, covering essential topics such as team member safety, food safety, and other vital areas. We created and implemented processes to help identify and eliminate safety events by reducing their frequency and severity. We also review and monitor our safety performance closely. Our goal is to reduce Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) recordable incidents year over year. During fiscal 2024, our recordable incident rate declined 1% compared to fiscal 2023. As an expansion of our wellbeing culture and efforts to boost the overall health and wellness of our workforce, we continue to operate health clinics near our production facilities, giving team members and their families easier access to high-quality healthcare. Team Member Engagement, Inclusion, and Belonging We firmly believe innovation thrives when teams come together, bringing a multitude of perspectives to propel progress and growth. Our workforce consists of approximately 39% women and approximately 70% minority groups. We believe that our diverse experiences make us strong, and we strive to create an inclusive workforce in which every team member contributes to our collective success. At Tyson Foods, our commitment to our team is rooted in our desire to create working environments that enable team members to succeed while supporting the growth of our communities. We maintain policies, practices and strong governance that are designed to enable team member success across our organization. Our Team Member Promise underscores our commitment to providing a work environment free from all forms of discrimination and harassment. All new team members receive training on this policy during onboarding, and all team members are required to take this training annually. We also maintain an Equal Opportunity Employer statement that details our commitment to equal opportunity in all aspects of employment. The Company has eight employee-led business resource groups that support our team members. Talent and Development Our talent strategy and philosophy is focused on attracting the best talent, recognizing and rewarding performance, while continually developing, engaging and retaining our team members. We focus on the team member experience, removing barriers to engagement, further modernizing the human resources process, focusing on frontline team member retention and continually improving equity and effectiveness of all talent practices. Consistent with this focus, we conducted our fifth OneTyson engagement survey, that included corporate and frontline team members for the purpose of evaluating our team member experience, internal performance and how we compared to other companies in multiple areas. In addition, through our Upward Academy Onsite Program, we offer English as a second language, high-school equivalency, citizenship, financial literacy and digital literacy training to all team members . As of September 28, 2024, the onsite program was operating at 57 Company locations. All team members can also access Upward Academy online, a frontline career development program. This program helps team members further hone professional skills and creates opportunities for our team members to advance to higher-paying, more senior-level positions within the Company through college degrees, job skills training and workforce certifications at no cost. We strive to grow and develop the different capabilities and skills that we need for the future, while maintaining a robust pipeline of talent throughout the organization. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Our principal marketing objective is to be the preferred provider of beef, pork, chicken and prepared foods products for our customers and consumers. We build the Tyson , Jimmy Dean , Hillshire Farm , Ball Park , Wright , State Fair , Aidells and ibp brands while supporting strong regional and emerging brands primarily through distinctive brand and product advertising, promotion and public relations efforts focused toward key consumer targets with specific needs. We identify growth and business opportunities through consumer and customer insights derived via leading research and analytic capabilities. We utilize our national distribution system and customer support services to achieve the leading market position for our products and brands. 7 We have the ability to produce and ship fresh, frozen and refrigerated products worldwide. Domestically, our distribution system extends to a broad network of food distributors and is supported by our owned or leased cold storage warehouses, public cold storage facilities and our transportation system. Our distribution centers accumulate fresh and frozen products so we can fill and consolidate partial-truckload orders into full truckloads, thereby decreasing shipping costs while increasing customer service. In addition, we provide our customers a wide selection of products that do not require large volume orders. Our distribution system enables us to supply large or small quantities of products to meet customer requirements anywhere in the continental United States. Internationally, we utilize both rail and truck refrigerated transportation to domestic ports, where consolidations take place to transport to foreign destinations. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We have filed a number of patent applications relating to our processes and products that either have been granted or are in the process of review. Because we do a significant amount of brand name and product line advertising to promote our products, we consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our marketing efforts, and we regularly register and apply for the registration of a number of trademarks. We also have developed non-public proprietary information regarding our production processes and other product-related matters. We utilize internal procedures and safeguards to protect the confidentiality of such information and, where appropriate, seek patent and/or other protection for the technology we utilize. INDUSTRY PRACTICES Our agreements with customers are generally short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practices and fluctuations in supply, demand and price for such products. In certain instances where we are selling further processed products to large customers, we may enter into written agreements whereby we will act as the exclusive or preferred supplier to the customer, with pricing terms that are either fixed or variable. AVAILABILITY OF SEC FILINGS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOCU