Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 47 Item 8. Financial Statements 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B. Other Information 49 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 49 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 49 Item 11. Executive Compensation 49 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 49 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 49 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 49 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 50 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 62 Signatures 63 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate, forecast, outlook, intend, strategy, plan, potential, predict, target, may, might, could, should, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar terminology generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as projections of revenue, margins, expenses, tax provisions, earnings, cash flows, benefit obligations, share or debt repurchases or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to our products and services; any statements regarding future economic conditions or our performance including our future performance statements related to the continued impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) global pandemic; any statements regarding our sustainability commitments; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. You are advised to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in materials we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties - many of which are beyond our control - as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. Factors that might affect our forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic, political and business conditions in the markets in which we operate including recessions, economic downturns, price instability, slow economic growth and social and political instability; impacts of global health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and other epidemics, pandemics, or other contagious outbreaks on our business operations, financial results and financial position and on the world economy; commodity and raw material shortages, supply chain risks and price increases; national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts, including the Russia-Ukraine conflict and other geopolitical hostilities; trade protection measures such as import or export restrictions and requirements, the imposition of tariffs and quotas or revocation or material modification of trade agreements; competitive factors in the markets in which we compete; the development, commercialization and acceptance of new and enhanced products and services; attracting and retaining talent; work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and similar issues; other capital market conditions, including availability of funding sources, interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; currency exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls and currency devaluations; the outcome of any litigation, governmental investigations, claims or proceedings; risks and uncertainties associated with the asbestos-related bankruptcy for our deconsolidated subsidiaries Aldrich Pump LLC and Murray Boiler LLC; the impact of potential information technology system failures, vulnerabilities, data security breaches or other cybersecurity issues; evolving data privacy and protection laws; intellectual property infringement claims and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights; changes in laws and regulations; climate change, changes in weather patterns, natural disasters and seasonal fluctuations; 2 Table of Contents national, regional and international regulations and policies associated with climate change and the environment; the outcome of any tax audits or settlements; the strategic acquisition or divestiture of businesses, product lines and joint ventures; impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or our long-lived assets; and changes in tax laws and requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, new and/or revised tax law interpretations and any legislation that may limit or eliminate potential tax benefits resulting from our incorporation in a non-U.S. jurisdiction, such as Ireland). Some of the significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described more fully in Part I,