Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 75 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 75 Item 9B. Other Information 75 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 76 Item 11. Executive Compensation 76 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 76 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 76 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 76 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 77 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 79 Signatures 80 2 SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance and may include statements concerning, among other things, our business strategy (including anticipated trends and developments in, and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate), financial results, operating results, revenues, operating expenses, and capital expenditures, sales and marketing initiatives and competition. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, might, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, suggests, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance they reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from expectations or results projected or implied by forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors and in other filings we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which are inherently subject to change and involve risks and uncertainties. Unless required by federal securities laws, we assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated, to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the statements are made. Given these uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Investors should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents that we reference in this report and have filed with the SEC completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. 3 PART I Item 1. Business Overview The Trade Desk, Inc. (the Company, we, our, or The Trade Desk ) is a technology company that empowers buyers of advertising. Through our self-service, cloud-based platform, ad buyers can create, manage, and optimize more expressive data-driven digital advertising campaigns across ad formats and channels, including display, video, audio, in-app, native and social, on a multitude of devices, such as computers, mobile devices, and connected TV ( CTV ). Our platform s integrations with major inventory, publisher, and data partners provides ad buyers reach and decisioning capabilities, and our enterprise application programming interfaces ( APIs ) enable our clients to develop on top of the platform. We commercially launched our platform in 2011, targeting display advertising. Since launching, we added support for several additional advertising formats, and in 2019, approximately 79% of gross spend on our platform came from mobile, video (which includes CTV), audio, native and social channels. Our clients are primarily the advertising agencies and other service providers for advertisers, with whom we enter into ongoing master services agreements ( MSAs ). We generate revenue by charging our clients a platform fee based on a percentage of a client s total spend on advertising. We also generate revenue from providing data and other value-added services and platform features. The Trade Desk is a Delaware corporation established in 2009, headquartered in Ventura, California. Our Industry We believe that several trends in the advertising industry, happening in parallel, are driving a shift to programmatic advertising the selling and buying of advertising inventory electronically. Some of the key industry trends are: Media is Becoming Digital. Media is increasingly becoming digital as a result of advances in technology and changes in consumer behavior. This shift has enabled unprecedented options for advertisers to target and measure their advertising campaigns across nearly every media channel and device. The digital advertising market is a significant and growing part of the total advertising market. We believe that the market is evolving and that advertisers will shift more spend to digital media. Since media is becoming increasingly digital, decisions based on consumer and behavioral data are more prevalent. Fragmentation of Audience. As digital media grows, audience fragmentation is accelerating. A growing long tail of mobile applications (apps), media players, websites and content presents a challenge for advertisers trying to reach a large audience. Audience fragmentation has substantially impacted TV content distribution, perhaps more than any other channel, which we believe is changing how TV advertising inventory is monetized. Mirroring the fragmentation occurring in content, the number of devices used by individual consumers has increased. Both of these fragmentation trends are opportunities for technology companies that can consolidate and simplify media buying options for advertisers and their agencies. Convergence of TV and the Internet. While still in its early days, we are witnessing a generational shift from linear TV to CTV with the convergence of the internet and television programming. New technologies allow more video content to be delivered over the Internet more seamlessly, accelerating consumer demand to watch what they want, when they want and where they want. The anticipated worldwide rollout of 5G, the fifth generational standard for wireless networks, will bring significantly faster data transfer speeds with less latency, and a better user experience, to consumers of mobile video. We believe these technologies will continue to feed consumer demand for CTV (including mobile video) and bring about new opportunities for content owners and advertisers to connect with consumers. Increased Use of Data. Advances in software and hardware and the growing use of the Internet have made it possible to collect and rapidly process massive amounts of user data. Data vendors are able to collect user information across a wide range of Internet properties and connected devices, aggregate it and combine it with other data sources. This data is then made non-identifiable and available within seconds based on specific parameters and attributes. Advertisers can integrate this targeting data with their own or an agency s proprietary data relating to client attributes, the advertisers own store locations and other related characteristics. Through the use of these types of data sources, together with real-time feedback on consumer reactions to the ads, programmatic advertising increases the value of impressions for advertisers and inventory owners, and viewers receive more relevant ads. Automation of Ad Buying. The growing complexity of digital advertising has increased the need for automation. Technology that enables fast, accurate and cost-effective decision-making through the application of computer algorithms that use extensive data sets has become critical for the success of digital advertising campaigns. Using programmatic inventory buying tools, advertisers are able to automate their campaigns, providing them with better price discovery, on an impression-by-impression basis. As a result, advertisers are able to bid on and purchase the advertising inventory they value the most, pay less for advertising inventory they do not value as much, and abstain from buying advertising inventory that does not fit their campaign parameters. 4 Digital Advertising Eco-System The digital advertising eco-system is divided into buyers, sellers and marketplaces, which can be further segmented on the basis of whether participants provide services or technology. We believe that participants on the buy-side or sell-side should be advocates for their buyers or sellers, while those in the market business should act as a referee or have market-driven incentives to protect or enhance the integrity of the marketplace. We believe that there are inherent conflicts of interest when market participants serve both buyers and sellers. What We Do We empower ad buyers, by providing a self service omnichannel software platform that enables our clients to purchase and manage data driven digital advertising campaigns. Our platform allows clients to manage integrated advertising campaigns across various advertising channels and formats, including display, video, audio, native and social, on a multitude of devices, including computers, mobile devices, and CTV. We Are Exclusively Focused on the Buy-Side. We focus on buyers since they control the advertising budgets. Also, the supply of digital advertising inventory exceeds demand, and accordingly, we believe it is a buyer s market. We also believe that by aligning our business only with buyers, we are able to avoid inherent conflicts of interest that exist when serving both the buy-side and sell-side. This focus allows us to build trust with clients, many of whom leverage their proprietary data on our platform. That trust and ability to use their own data on our platform, without worrying about it being used by other participants, enables our clients and their advertisers to achieve better results. This trust provides us the benefit of long-term and stable relationships with our clients. We Are an Enabler, Not a Disruptor. With our platform, we enable advertising agencies and other service providers. Advertisers can benefit from a comprehensive solution that combines our platform with the services provided by advertising agencies. We Are Data-Driven. Our platform was founded on the principle that data-driven decisions will be the future of advertising. We built a data management platform first, before building our ad buying technology. While data from disparate third-party data providers can improve campaign performance, our clients success often relies largely on our ability to ingest proprietary data directly from brands and their agencies to enable intelligent decisioning that optimizes advertising campaigns. Given our independent, buy-side focused approach, and our strict protocol of carefully earmarking all client first-party data we ingest onto our data management platform, our clients trust us with their most granular and expressive data. Our technology platform enables the effective use of this granular data, which allows our clients to run precisely targeted advertising campaigns that maximize their return on advertising investments. Additionally, we are able to better optimize campaigns by using the data streams that we capture across different devices, so that data from one channel can be used to inform another. The breadth of data that we collect from a multitude of data sources across channels gives our clients a holistic view of their target audiences, enabling more effective targeting across different channels. We Do Not Arbitrage Advertising Inventory. To further align our interests with those of our clients, we do not buy advertising inventory in order to resell it to our clients for a profit. Instead, we provide our clients with a platform that allows them to manage their omnichannel advertising campaigns, on a self-serve basis with robust reporting. With our platform, our clients control their campaign spend and are able to access and choose from many inventory sources. We Have Ongoing Relationships with Clients. We derive substantially all of our revenue from ongoing MSAs with our clients rather than episodic insertion orders. We believe that this approach helps us strengthen our relationships with our clients and grow their use of our platform over the long term, providing us with a highly scalable business model. We Are a Clear Box, Not a Black Box. Our platform is transparent and shows our clients their costs of advertising inventory, data, our platform fee and detailed performance metrics on their advertising campaigns. Our clients directly access and execute campaigns on our platform, control all facets of inventory purchasing decisions, and receive detailed, real-time reporting on all their advertising campaigns. By providing transparent information on our platform, our clients are able to continually compare results and target their budgets to the most effective advertising inventory, data providers and channels. We Are an Open Platform. Clients can customize and build their own features on top of our platform. Clients may use our APIs to, for example, design their own user interface, bulk manage advertising campaigns, and link other systems including ad servers or reporting tools. Using our APIs or by working with our engineering team, clients invest their own resources to build their own proprietary tools in areas including reporting, campaign strategy, custom algorithms or proprietary data use cases. Our open platform approach enables our advertising agency and service provider clients to provide differentiated offerings to their clients, which we believe leads to long-term relationships and increased use of our platform. 5 Our Platform At the core of our platform is our bid-factor based architecture, which we believe has advantages over line-item based architectures that other buy-side systems use. Our bid-factor based system allows users to define desirable factors and the value associated with those factors. Based on these factors, our platform can compute in real-time the value of impressions and bid only for optimal impressions. Because of the granularity of the bid factors, users of our platform can rapidly create billions of different bid permutations with only a few clicks. This expressiveness enables better targeting, pricing and campaign results. Our platform is useful and user-friendly based on the following: Easy to Use, Open and Customizable. Our platform provides multiple, easy-to-use automation tools that help our users focus on managing the key factors affecting their campaigns. Our platform also enables clients to integrate custom features and interfaces for their own use through our APIs. Expressiveness. Our platform allows clients to easily define and manage advertising campaigns with multiple targeting parameters that may result in quadrillions of permutations, which we refer to as expressiveness. We believe that expressiveness provides clients with the ability to target audiences with an extremely high level of precision and thus obtain higher returns on their advertising spend. Integrated, Omnichannel and Cross-device. Our platform provides integrated access to a wide range of omnichannel inventory and data sources, as well as third-party services such as ad servers, ad verification services and survey vendors. Our platform s integration of these sources and services enables our clients to deploy their budgets through a wide variety of channels, media screens and formats, targeted in their desired manner, through a single platform. Some of the key features of our platform are: Auto-Optimization. We provide auto-optimization features which allow buyers to automate their campaigns and support them with computer generated modeling and decision making. In addition, by giving clients full reporting, budgeting, and bidding transparency, clients can take control of targeting variables when desired, and apply algorithmic automation when appropriate. Advanced Reporting and Analytics Tools. We provide a comprehensive view of consumers interactions with the ads purchased through our platform with robust reporting of performance insights across multiple variables, such as audience characteristics, ad format, site category, website, device, creative type, and geography. Better reporting results in better learning, often leading to better campaign optimization and outcomes. Data Management. Our platform enables clients to license a broad selection of data from third-party vendors in a seamless and easy manner, allowing them to further optimize their campaigns with the most relevant data. Koa Artificial Intelligence. A predictive engine that helps platform users make data-driven decisions without sacrificing control or transparency. Koa makes recommendations for campaign optimizations based on its sophisticated analysis of rich data sets. Advertisers can then choose which optimizations make the most sense for their campaigns. Media Planner. An omnichannel solution designed for digital media professionals to generate, analyze, and launch data-driven, programmatic media plans. This tool analyzes the actions of existing core audiences with the data we see across the open internet to deliver a fully transparent, performance-focused, and ready-to-activate campaign. Private Marketplace Support. For clients who wish to transact directly with individual publishers, we offer a comprehensive user interface for discovering and transacting via a wide variety of private contracts. Additionally, we offer a solution for advertisers to access publisher inventory via a direct tag in a publisher s ad server where there is no other programmatic access to such publisher s inventory. Our platform enables a media planner or buyer at an advertising agency to: purchase digital media programmatically on various media exchanges and sell-side platforms acquire and use third-party data to optimize and measure digital advertising campaigns integrate and deploy their proprietary first-party data with our platform in order to optimize campaign efficacy monitor and manage ongoing digital advertising campaigns on a real-time basis link digital campaigns to offline sales results or other business objectives access other services such as our data management platform and publisher management platform marketplace and use our user interface and APIs to build their own proprietary technology on top of our platform. 6 Our Technology The core elements of our technology are: Scalable Architecture. Our platform infrastructure is hosted in data centers in eight countries around the world. On average, our real-time bidding technology evaluates more than 790 billion ad opportunities per day, reaching over 819 million devices per day on a global basis. Our core bidding architecture is easily adaptable to a variety of inventory formats, allowing our platform to communicate with many different inventory sources. Predictive Models. We use the massive data captured by our platform to build predictive models around user characteristics, such as demographic, purchase intent or interest data. Data from our platform is continually fed back into these models, which enables them to improve over time as the use of our platform increases. Performance Optimization. During campaign execution, our optimization engine continually scores a variety of attributes of each impression, such as website, industry vertical or geography, for their likelihood to achieve campaign performance goals. Our bidding engine then shifts bids and budgets in real-time to deliver optimal performance. Additionally, our platform enables clients to set multiple, simultaneous optimization goals for their advertising. Real-time Analytics. Our platform continuously collects data regarding inventory availability. Real-time campaign delivery and spend totals are used to manage campaign budgets and goal caps, as well as campaign reporting. This data is fed back into our optimization engine to improve campaign performance, and into machine-learning models for user demographic predictive modeling. Our Growth Strategy The key elements of our long-term growth strategy include: Increase Our Share of Existing Clients Digital Advertising Spend. Many advertisers are moving a greater percentage of their advertising budgets to programmatic channels. We believe that this shift will provide us with the opportunity to capture a larger share of the overall advertising spend by our existing clients. Additionally, we plan to promote additional services and data to our clients, helping us grow our business. Grow Our Client Base. We have extensive relationships with many advertising agencies and other service providers, and believe that, given the decentralized nature of the advertising industry, we have the opportunity to expand our relationships within these agencies and with additional agencies and service providers. We expect to continue making investments in growing our sales and client service team to support this strategy. Expand Our Omnichannel Capabilities. We believe offering clients capabilities across all media channels and devices enables advertisers to manage omnichannel campaigns and use data from each channel to inform decisions in other channels. We believe these capabilities will continue to further strengthen our relationships with our clients. We intend to continue to invest in innovation across all channels, including the integration of new inventory sources within CTV, digital radio, social, native, and digital out of home. Extend Our Reach in CTV. Television is the largest category of advertising spend, and we believe that the future of television is in streaming media and video on demand through subscription services and connected devices. We plan to invest significant resources in technology, sales and support staff related to our CTV growth initiatives. Continue to Innovate in Technology and Data. We intend to continue to innovate in technology to improve our platform and enhance its features and functionalities. We view data as one of our key competitive advantages. We will continue to invest resources in growing our data offerings, both from third-party providers as well as our proprietary data. Expand Our International Presence. Many of our clients serve advertisers on a global basis and we intend to expand our presence outside of the United States, or U.S., to serve the needs of those advertisers in additional geographies. As we expand relationships with our existing clients, we are investing in select regions in Europe and Asia. In particular, we believe that China and Indonesia may represent substantial growth opportunities, and we are investing in developing our business in those markets. Our Clients Our clients consist of purchasers of programmatic advertising inventory and data. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 820 clients, consisting primarily of advertising agencies or groups within advertising agencies that have independent relationships with us, manage budgets independently of one-another, are based in different jurisdictions, and are served by unique Trade Desk teams. Many of these agencies are owned by holding companies, where decision-making is decentralized such that purchasing decisions are made, and relationships with advertisers are located, at the agency, local branch or division level. Our client count includes only those parties which have signed MSAs with us and have spent more than $20,000 on our platform. 7 If all of our individual client contractual relationships were aggregated at the holding company level, two clients would have each represented more than 10% of our gross billings in 201 9 , two client s would have each represented more than 10% of our gross billings in 201 8 and three clients would have each represented more than 10% of our gross billings in 2017 . Our contractual and billing arrangement with Omnicom Group Inc. is at the holding company level and accounted for 10 % of our gross billings in 201 9 , 1 0 % in 201 8 and 1 1 % in 201 7 . For Publicis Groupe and WPP plc, we enter into separate contracts and billing relationships with various of its individual agencies and account for them as separate clients. We do not have any contractual relationship with Publicis Groupe or the holding company WPP plc. Publicis Media Inc. (formerly VivaKi, Inc. ) , which is affiliated with Publicis Groupe, accounted for 13 % of our gross billings in 201 9 , 2 0 % in 201 8 and 22 % in 201 7 . Mindshare, which is affiliated with WPP plc, accounted for 10 % of our gross billings in 2017 . Our clients typically enter into MSAs with us that give users constant access to our platform. The MSAs do not contain any material commitments on behalf of clients to use our platform to purchase ad inventory, data or other features. These MSAs typically have one-year terms that renew automatically for additional one-year periods, unless earlier terminated. The MSAs are typically terminable at any time upon 60 days notice by either party. Our clients are loyal, as reflected by our client retention rate of over 95% in 2019, 2018 and 2017. In addition, our clients typically grow their use of our platform over time. Our Advertising and Data Inventory Suppliers For suppliers of programmatic advertising inventory and data, we believe that we are an important business partner, as we represent one of the largest sources of buy-side demand within the digital advertising industry. We obtain digital advertising inventory from over 95 ad exchanges, supply-side platforms, publishers and ad networks, providing us with access to a breadth of programmatic advertising inventory across computers, mobile devices and CTV. On average each day, our platform provides our clients with access to over 790 billion ad impressions per day, reaching over 819 million devices per day on a global basis. For third-party data vendors, we believe that we represent an important distribution channel. As of December 31, 2019, we have integrated our platform with over 194 third-party data vendors whose products we make available for purchase through our platform. Sales and Marketing Given our self-serve business model, we focus on supporting, advising and training our clients to use our platform independently as soon as they are ready to transact. Once a new client has access to our platform, they work closely with our client service teams, which onboard the new client and provide continuous support throughout the early campaigns. Typically, once a client has gained some initial experience, it will move to a fully self-serve model and request support as needed. To help train our clients, suppliers and other digital media participants, we have created an e-learning program called The Trading Academy. We believe that this initiative is an important component in our strategy of enabling rapid onboarding to our platform. Our marketing efforts are focused on increasing awareness for our brand, executing thought-leadership initiatives, supporting our sales team and generating new leads. We seek to accomplish these objectives by presenting at industry conferences, hosting client conferences, publishing white papers and research, public relations activities, social media presence and advertising campaigns. Technology and Development Rapid innovation is a core driver of our business success and our corporate culture. We prioritize and align our product roadmap with our clients needs, and we aim to refresh our platform weekly. Our development teams are intentionally lean and nimble in nature, providing for transparency and accountability. We expect technology and development expense to increase as we continue to invest in the development of our platform to support additional features and functions, increase the number of advertising and data inventory suppliers and ramp up the volume of advertising spending on our platform. We also intend to invest in technology to further automate our business processes. 8 Seasonality In the advertising industry, companies commonly experience seasonal fluctuations in revenue. For example, many advertisers allocate the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year in order to coincide with increased holiday purchasing. Historically, the fourth quarter of the year reflects our highest level of advertising activity and the first quarter reflects the lowest level of such activity. We expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the advertising industry as a whole. Our Competition Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with other demand-side platform providers, s