Item 1 . Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 42 Item 9B. Other Information 42 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 43 Item 11. Executive Compensation 43 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 43 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 43 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 43 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 44 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 48 Index to Financial Statements 49 Signatures 90 CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements contained herein, which are not historical facts, including statements relating to our proposed acquisition of Zynga Inc. ("Zynga"), are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws and may be identified by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "potential," "predicts," "projects," "seeks," "should," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc.'s ("Take-Two," the "Company," "we," "us," or similar pronouns) future business and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to them, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may vary materially from these forward-looking statements based on a variety of risks and uncertainties including the uncertainty of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto; the effect that measures taken to mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic have on our operations, including our ability to timely deliver our titles and other products, and on the operations of our counterparties, including retailers, including digital storefronts and platform partners, and distributors; the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on consumer demand and the discretionary spending patterns of our customers as the situation with the pandemic continues to evolve; the impact of reductions in interest rates by the Federal Reserve and other central banks, including on our short-term investment portfolio; the impact of potential inflation; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement for the Zynga acquisition; the inability to obtain our or Zynga's respective stockholder approval or the failure to satisfy other conditions to completion of the proposed acquisition, on a timely basis or at all; risks that the proposed acquisition disrupts each company s current plans and operations; the diversion of the attention of the respective management teams of Take-Two and Zynga from their respective ongoing business operations; the ability of either Take-Two, Zynga or the combined company to retain key personnel; the ability to realize the benefits of the proposed acquisition, including Net Bookings opportunities and cost synergies; the ability to successfully integrate Zynga s business with Take-Two s business or to integrate the businesses within the anticipated timeframe; the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against Take-Two, Zynga or others related to the proposed acquisition; the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the proposed acquisition; other risks included herein; as well as, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under the heading " Risk Factors " included in Part I, Item 1A herein. All forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business Recent Developments Pending Acquisition. On January 9, 2022, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Zynga Inc. ("Zynga"), a leading developer of mobile games. Under the terms and subject to the conditions of the merger agreement, Zynga stockholders will receive $3.50 in cash and a number of shares of our common stock equal to the exchange ratio for each share of Zynga common stock outstanding at the closing. The transaction is valued at $9.86 per share of Zynga common stock based on the market closing as of January 7, 2022, implying an enterprise value of $12.7 billion. The transaction includes a collar mechanism on the equity consideration, so that if the volume weighted average price ("VWAP") of Take-Two common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market for the consecutive period beginning at 9:30 a.m. New York time on the twenty-third trading day immediately preceding the closing date of the transaction and concluding at 4:00 p.m. New York time on the third trading day preceding such closing date is in a range from $156.50 to $181.88, the exchange ratio would be adjusted to deliver total consideration of $9.86 per Zynga share. If the VWAP of our common stock for the period noted in the prior sentence exceeds the higher end of that range the exchange ratio would be 0.0350 per share, and, if the VWAP is below the lower end of that range, the exchange ratio would be 0.0406 per share. The transaction, which is currently anticipated to close on Monday, May 23, 2022, is subject to approval by Take-Two and Zynga stockholders and the satisfaction of the other customary closing conditions. In connection with the transaction, on April 14, 2022, we completed our offering and sale of $2.7 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes, consisting of $1.0 billion principal amount of our 3.300% Senior Notes due 2024 (the 2024 Notes ), $600 million principal amount of our 3.550% Senior Notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes ), $600 million principal amount of our 3.700% Senior Notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes ) and $500 million principal amount of our 4.000% Senior Notes due 2032 (the 2032 Notes and, together with the 2024 Notes, the 2025 Notes and the 2027 Notes, the Notes ).The Notes were issued under an indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the Trustee ). The Notes are the Company s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our other existing and future unsubordinated obligations. The 2024 Notes mature on March 28, 2024 and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.300%. The 2025 1 Notes mature on April 14, 2025 and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.550%. The 2027 Notes mature on April 14, 2027 and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.700%. The 2032 Notes mature on April 14, 2032 and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.000%. We will pay interest on the 2024 Notes semiannually on March 28 and September 28 of each year, commencing September 28, 2022. We will pay interest on each of the 2025 Notes, 2027 Notes and 2032 Notes semi-annually on April 14 and October 14 of each year, commencing October 14, 2022. General We are a leading developer, publisher and marketer of interactive entertainment for consumers around the globe. We develop and publish products principally through Rockstar Games, 2K, Private Division, and T2 Mobile Games. Our products are currently designed for console gaming systems, including, but not limited to, the Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. ("Sony") PlayStation 4 ("PS4") and PlayStation5 ("PS5"), Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") Xbox One ("Xbox One") and Xbox Series X|S ("Xbox Series X|S"), and Nintendo's Switch TM ("Switch"), as well as personal computers ("PC"), and mobile, including, smartphones and tablets ("Mobile"). We deliver our products through physical retail, digital download, online platforms, and cloud streaming services. Our website address is www.take2games.com. We make all of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") available free of charge on our website under the caption "Financial Information SEC Filings." Included in these filings are our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, which are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website is www.sec.gov . Strategy Overview. We endeavor to be the most creative, innovative, and efficient company in our industry. Our core strategy is to capitalize on the popularity of video games by developing and publishing high-quality interactive entertainment experiences across a range of genres. We focus on building compelling entertainment franchises by publishing a select number of titles for which we can create sequels and incremental revenue opportunities through virtual currency, add-on content, and in-game purchases. Most of our intellectual property is internally owned and developed, which we believe best positions us financially and competitively. We have established a portfolio of proprietary software content for the major hardware platforms in a wide range of genres, including action, adventure, family/casual, role-playing, shooter, sports and strategy, which we distribute worldwide. We believe that our commitment to creativity and innovation is a distinguishing strength, enabling us to differentiate our products in the marketplace by combining advanced technology with compelling storylines and characters that provide unique gameplay experiences for consumers. We have created, acquired, or licensed a group of highly recognizable brands to match the broad consumer demographics that we serve, ranging from adults to children and game enthusiasts to casual gamers. Another cornerstone of our strategy is to support the success of our products in the marketplace through innovative marketing programs and global distribution on platforms and through channels that are relevant to our target audience. Support World-Class Creative Teams. Creativity and innovation remain two of the core tenets of our organization and are the lifeblood of our ongoing success. We have 6,042 employees working in game development in studios around the world, including some of the most well-known names in the business. The creative teams at Rockstar Games and 2K are renowned for their consistent ability to deliver games that set new benchmarks for excellence. In addition, Private Division is dedicated to bringing titles from top independent developers to market, and T2 Mobile Games further enhances our development capabilities with a track record of producing multiple hits in the free-to-play mobile sector. Whether expanding our portfolio of franchises, launching new intellectual property, or providing innovative ways for audiences to remain captivated and engaged, we prioritize producing the highest quality entertainment experiences. We support our teams by focusing on talent acquisition and retention, and our label structure enables us to target distinct market segments and opportunities. Focus on Core Strength of Producing High Quality Titles. We focus on publishing a number of high-quality titles based on internally owned and developed intellectual properties. We and our subsidiaries currently own the intellectual property rights to 30 proprietary brands. In addition, we selectively develop titles based on licensed properties, including sports leagues, and also publish externally developed titles. We use a product investment review process to evaluate potential titles for investment, to review existing titles in development, and to assess titles after release by measuring their performance in the market and the return on our investment. We apply this process to all of our products, whether internally or externally developed. Our product investment review process 2 includes reviews of each project at various stages of development by our executive management team and the senior management of our publishing labels and also includes coordination between our sales and marketing personnel before the launch of titles. This disciplined approach to product investment is expected to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of our titles. We develop our products using a combination of our internal development teams and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select external developers based on their track record and expertise in developing products in the same category or genre. One developer will generally produce the same game for multiple platforms and will also produce sequels to the original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which is designed to maintain our quality standards for our products. Leverage Emerging Technologies, Platforms, and Distribution Channels, Including Digitally-Delivered Content. Interactive entertainment played online and on Mobile, presents opportunities to enhance our growth and profitability. In addition, the interactive entertainment software industry is delivering a growing amount of content for traditional platforms through digital download. We provide a variety of digitally-delivered products and offerings, which typically have a higher gross margin than physically-delivered products. Virtually all of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct digital download (from websites we own or third-party websites). We also publish an expanding variety of titles for Mobile, which are delivered to consumers through digital download. We will continue to invest in emerging opportunities in mobile and online gameplay, particularly for our wholly-owned franchises, as well as downloadable content and microtransactions that enable gamers to pay to download additional content to enhance their game playing experience. We aim to drive ongoing engagement and incremental revenue from recurrent consumer spending on our titles through virtual currency, add-on content, and in-game purchases. Expand International Business. The global market for interactive entertainment continues to grow, and we seek to increase our presence internationally, particularly in Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. We are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in Asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in China and South Korea. We are a direct publisher in Japan and South Korea. While we retain title to all intellectual property, in some regions, local publishers, under license agreements, are responsible for localization of software content, distribution, and marketing of the products in their respective local markets. We intend to continue to build on our licensing relationships and also continue to expand on distribution strategies to grow our international business. Our Businesses Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by third parties. Operating margins are dependent in part upon our ability to release new, commercially successful software products and to manage effectively their development and marketing costs. We have internal development studios located in Australia, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Hungary, India, Serbia, South Korea, Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and the United States (U.S.). As of March 31, 2022, we had a research and development staff of 6,042 employees with the technical capabilities to develop software titles for all major consoles, PCs, and mobile platforms in multiple languages and territories. Agreements with third-party developers generally give us exclusive publishing and marketing rights and require us to make development payments, pay royalties based on product sales, and satisfy other conditions. Development payments for software titles are typically recoupable against royalties otherwise due to developers based on software sales. Our agreements with third-party developers generally provide us with the right to monitor development efforts and to cease making development payments if specified development milestones are not satisfied. We also regularly monitor the level of development payments in light of the expected sales for the related titles. We continue to engage in evolving business models such as online gaming, virtual currency, add-on content, and in-game purchases, and we expect to continue to generate incremental revenue from these opportunities. Rockstar Games. Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally developed. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of the Grand Theft Auto , Max Payne , Midnight Club , Red Dead Redemption , and other popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action/adventure product category and to create groundbreaking entertainment. We believe that Rockstar Games has established a uniquely original, popular cultural phenomenon with its Grand Theft Auto series, which is the interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand and has sold-in over 375 million units worldwide. The latest installment, Grand Theft Auto V , has sold-in over 160 million units worldwide and includes access to Grand Theft Auto Online . Red Dead Redemption 2 , which has been a critical and commercial success that set numerous entertainment industry records, has sold-in more than 40 million units worldwide to date. Rockstar Games confirmed that active development for the next entry in the Grand Theft Auto franchise is well underway with more details to be shared over time. Rockstar Games is also well known for developing brands in other 3 genres, including the LA Noire , Bully, and Manhunt games. Rockstar Games continues to expand on our established series by developing sequels, offering downloadable episodes, and additional content. Rockstar Game's titles are published across all key platforms, including Mobile. 2K. Our 2K label has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across all key platforms and across a range of genres including shooter, action, role-playing, strategy, sports and family/casual entertainment. We expect 2K to continue to develop new, successful franchises in the future. 2K's internally owned and developed franchises include the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit selling BioShock , Mafia , Sid Meier's Civilization , and XCOM series. 2K also publishes externally developed franchises such as Borderlands . 2K's realistic sports simulation titles include our flagship NBA 2K series, which continues to be the top-ranked NBA basketball video game, the WWE 2K professional wrestling series, and PGA TOUR 2K . 2K has announced a multi-year partnership with the National Football League encompassing multiple future video games that will be non-simulation football game experiences. 2K also publishes mobile titles, such as WWE SuperCard . Private Division. Our Private Division label is dedicated to bringing titles from the industry's leading creative talent to market and is the publisher and owner of Kerbal Space Program and OlliOlli World . Kerbal Space Program 2 is planned for release in fiscal year 2023. Private Division also released The Outer Worlds and Ancestors: The Humankind Odyssey . T2 Mobile Games T2 Mobile Games includes Socialpoint, Playdots, and Nordeus, which publish popular free-to-play mobile games that deliver high quality, deeply engaging entertainment experiences and generates revenue from in-game sales and in-game advertising. T2 Mobile Games' titles include Dragon City , Monster Legends , Two Dots , and Top Eleven . On June 1, 2021, we acquired Nordeus Limited ("Nordeus"), for consideration having an acquisition date fair value of $289.8 million, consisting of $132.9 million in cash and the issuance of 0.5 million shares of our common stock, and a contingent earn-out consideration arrangement that requires us to pay up to an aggregate of $153.0 million in cash if Nordeus achieves certain performance measures over the 12- and 24- month periods following the closing (see Note 22 - Acquisitions of our Consolidated Financial Statements). Founded in 2010, Nordeus is a mobile games company based in Belgrade, Serbia, best known for Top Eleven, which has over 240 million registered users. We are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in Asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and South Korea. 2K has secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online version of our NBA simulation game in China, Taiwan, South Korea and Southeast Asia. NBA 2K Online , our free-to-play NBA simulation game that is based on the console edition of NBA 2K , which was co-developed by 2K and Tencent, is the top online PC sports game in China with over 56 million registered users. We have released two iterations of NBA 2K Online and continue to enhance the title with new features. We have expanded our relationship with the NBA through the NBA 2K League . This groundbreaking competitive gaming league is jointly owned by us and the NBA and consists of teams operated by actual NBA franchises. The NBA 2K League follows a professional sports league format: head-to-head competition throughout a regular season, followed by a bracketed playoff system and a finals match-up. The NBA 2K League is currently in its fifth season. Intellectual Property Our business is highly dependent on the creation, acquisition, licensing, and protection of intellectual property. The intellectual property rights we have created or acquired for our internally-owned portfolio of brands include BioShock , Bully , Carnival Games , Dragon City , Grand Theft Auto , Kerbal Space Program , L.A. Noire , Mafia , Manhunt , Max Payne , Midnight Club , Monster Legends , OlliOlli World , Red Dead , Sid Meier's Civilization , Top Eleven , Two Dots , and XCOM . We believe that content ownership facilitates our internal product development efforts and maximizes profit potential. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying, and distribution. We also enter into content license agreements, such as those with sports leagues, players associations, music labels and musicians. These licenses are typically limited to use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, we license and include console manufacturer technology in our products on a non-exclusive basis, which allows our games to be played on their respective hardware systems. Manufacturing Platform manufacturers, such as Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo, either manufacture or control the selection of approved manufacturers of software products sold for use on their respective hardware platforms. We place a purchase order for the manufacture of our products with Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft's approved replicator and then send software code to the manufacturer, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. Games are generally shipped within two to three weeks of receipt of our purchase order and all materials. 4 Our software titles typically carry a 90-day limited warranty. Arrangements with Platform Manufacturers We have entered into license agreements with Sony and Microsoft to develop and publish software in Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and certain Latin American, Middle Eastern, and African countries. We are not required to obtain any licenses from hardware manufacturers to develop titles for the PC. Sony. Effective March 23, 2017, we entered into a PlayStation Global Developer and Publisher Agreement with Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. and certain of its affiliates, pursuant to which Sony granted us the right and license to develop, publish, have manufactured, market, advertise, distribute and sell PlayStation compatible products for all PlayStation systems. The agreement requires us to submit products to Sony for approval and for us to make royalty payments to Sony based on the number of units manufactured or revenue from digitally downloaded content. In addition, products for PlayStation systems are required to be manufactured by Sony-approved manufacturers. On September 30, 2020, we entered into a PlayStation 5 Amendment, with an effective date of May 1, 2020 (the PS5 Amendment ), to our existing PlayStation Global Developer and Publisher Agreement. The PS5 Amendment amends the existing agreement to include the PlayStation 5 interactive entertainment system in the definition of systems in the agreement and to extend all of the terms and conditions of the existing agreement to our PlayStation 5 products and services. The term of the agreement, as amended, expires on March 31, 2023, with automatic one-year renewal terms thereafter (unless one party gives the other notice of termination). Sony may terminate the agreement for any or no reason upon 30 days notice. The agreement may also be terminated by Sony immediately in the event of a breach by us or our bankruptcy or insolvency. Upon expiration or termination of the agreement, we have certain rights to sell off existing inventories. Microsoft. Under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, Microsoft granted us the right and license to develop, publish, have manufactured, market, advertise, distribute and sell Xbox compatible products. The agreements require us to submit products to Microsoft for approval and to make royalty payments to Microsoft based on the number of units manufactured or revenue from digitally downloaded content. In addition, products for the Xbox consoles are required to be manufactured by Microsoft-approved manufacturers. Effective as of November 17, 2005, we entered into an Xbox 360 Publisher License Agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox 360 console (the Xbox 360 Agreement ). Effective as of July 1, 2020, we entered into an Xbox Console Publisher License Agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox Series X|S and Xbox One consoles (the Xbox Next Gen Agreement and together with Xbox 360 Agreement, the Xbox Agreements ). The term of Xbox 360 Agreement expires on March 31, 2023, and the term of the Xbox Next Gen Agreement expires on March 31, 2023, each with automatic one-year renewal terms thereafter (unless one party gives the other advance notice of non-renewal). These Xbox Agreements may be terminated by Microsoft immediately in the event of a breach by us, and the Xbox Next Gen Agreement may also be terminated by Microsoft immediately in the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency. Upon expiration or termination of each of the Xbox Agreements, we have certain rights to sell off existing inventories. Sales We sell software titles both physically and digitally through direct relationships with large retail customers, including digital storefronts and platform partners, and third-party distributors. Our top customers include, among others, Sony, Microsoft, Steam, GameStop, Epic, Apple, and Google. We sell our products globally and have sales operations in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We are dependent on a limited number of customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, accounted for 79.0% of our net revenue, with Sony and Microsoft each accounting for more than 10.0% of our net revenue during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. We also distribute our titles, add-on content, and in-game purchases through direct digital download to consoles and PCs, including smartphones and tablets. We view digital distribution as an important growth opportunity for our industry and Company; however, we expect that packaged goods and traditional retailers will continue to be a significant channel for the sale of our console products for the foreseeable future. Marketing Our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize consumer interest in our titles, promote brand name recognition of our franchises, assist retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers in connection with their own promotional efforts. 5 We marke