Item 1 . Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 1C. Cyber s ecurity 33 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 37 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 50 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 50 Item 9B. Other Information 51 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 51 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 52 Item 11. Executive Compensation 52 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 52 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 52 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 52 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 53 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 57 Index to Financial Statements 58 Signatures 107 CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements contained herein, which are not historical facts, including statements relating to Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc.'s ("Take-Two," the "Company," "we," "us," or similar pronouns) outlook, are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws and may be identified by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "potential," "predicts," "projects," "seeks," "should," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for our future business and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to them, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may vary materially from these forward-looking statements based on a variety of risks and uncertainties including risks relating to our combination with Zynga Inc. (the "Zynga Acquisition"); the risks of conducting business internationally, including as a result of unforeseen geopolitical events; the impact of changes in interest rates by the Federal Reserve and other central banks, including on our short-term investment portfolio; the impact of inflation; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates; our dependence on key management and product development personnel; our dependence on our NBA 2K and Grand Theft Auto products and our ability to develop other hit titles; our ability to leverage opportunities on PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S; factors affecting our mobile business, such as player acquisition costs; the timely release and significant market acceptance of our games; the ability to maintain acceptable pricing levels on our games; and other risks included herein; as well as, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under the heading " Risk Factors " included in Part I, Item 1A herein. All forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. All figures are in millions, except per share amounts, employee figures, or as otherwise noted. PART I Item 1. Business General We are a leading developer, publisher, and marketer of interactive entertainment for consumers around the globe. We develop, operate, and publish products principally through Rockstar Games, 2K, Private Division, and Zynga. Our products are currently designed for console gaming systems, including, but not limited to, the Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. ("Sony") PlayStation 4 ("PS4") and PlayStation5 ("PS5"), Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") Xbox One ("Xbox One") and Xbox Series X|S ("Xbox Series X|S"), and Nintendo's Switch TM ("Switch"), as well as personal computers ("PC"), and mobile, including, smartphones and tablets. We deliver our products through physical retail, digital download, online platforms, and cloud streaming services. Our website address is www.take2games.com. We make all of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") available free of charge on our website under the caption "Financial Information SEC Filings." Included in these filings are our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, which are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website is www.sec.gov . Strategy Overview. Our strategy is to be the most creative, innovative, and efficient company in the evolving interactive entertainment industry. With our diverse portfolio that spans all key platforms and numerous genres, we strive to create the highest quality, most engaging interactive entertainment franchises and captivate our global audience. Most of our intellectual property is internally owned and developed, which we believe best positions us financially and competitively. We have established a portfolio of proprietary software content for the major hardware and mobile platforms in a wide range of genres, including action, adventure, family/casual, hyper-casual, role-playing, shooter, social casino, sports, and strategy, which we distribute worldwide. We believe that our player-first mentality and commitment to creativity and innovation are distinguishing strengths, enabling us to differentiate our products in the marketplace by combining advanced technology with compelling storylines and characters that provide unique gameplay experiences for consumers. We have created, acquired, or licensed a group of highly recognizable brands to match the broad consumer demographics that we serve, ranging from adults to children and game enthusiasts to casual gamers. Another cornerstone of our strategy is to support the success of our products in the 1 marketplace through innovative marketing programs and global distribution on platforms and through channels that are relevant to our target audience. Support World-Class Creative Teams. Creativity and innovation remain two of the core tenets of our organization and are the lifeblood of our ongoing success. We have 9,639 employees working in game development in studios around the world, including some of the most well-known names in the business. The creative teams at Rockstar Games, 2K, Private Division, and Zynga are renowned for their consistent ability to deliver games that set new benchmarks for excellence. In addition, Private Division is dedicated to bringing titles from top independent developers to market. Our teams balance the art and science of game making by combining creative innovation with a player-centric, data driven approach to delight players. We support our teams by focusing on talent acquisition and retention, and we seek to foster an environment where people build long-term careers and do their best work. Focus on Core Strength of Producing High-Quality Titles. We focus on publishing high-quality titles based on internally owned and developed intellectual properties. We currently own the intellectual property rights to 48 proprietary brands. In addition, we selectively develop titles based on licensed properties, including sports leagues, and also publish externally developed titles. We take steps to optimize efficiency and effectiveness in our operations while also maintaining high standards of quality and customer satisfaction. Our objective is to achieve greater operating expense leverage as we grow our scale with the release of our eagerly-anticipated pipeline. We use a product investment review process to evaluate potential titles for investment, to review existing titles in development, and to assess titles after release by measuring their performance in the market and the return on our investment. We apply this process to all of our products, whether internally or externally developed. Our product investment review process includes reviews of each project at various stages of development by our executive management team and the senior management of our publishing labels and also includes coordination between our sales and marketing personnel before the launch of titles. This disciplined approach to product investment is expected to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of our titles. We develop our products using a combination of our internal development teams and external development resources acting under contract with us. We select external developers based on their track record and expertise in developing products in the same category or genre. One developer will generally produce the same game for multiple platforms and will also produce sequels to the original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which is designed to maintain our quality standards for our products. Leverage Emerging Technologies, Platforms, and Distribution Channels, Including Digitally-Delivered Content. Interactive entertainment, played online and on mobile, presents significant opportunities to enhance our growth and profitability. In addition, the interactive entertainment software industry is delivering the majority of content for traditional platforms through digital download. Virtually all of our products are available through direct digital download (from websites we own or third-party websites). We will continue to invest in emerging opportunities in mobile and online gameplay, particularly for our wholly-owned franchises, as well as downloadable content and microtransactions that enable gamers to pay to download additional content to enhance their game playing experience. We aim to drive ongoing engagement and incremental revenue from recurrent consumer spending on our titles through virtual currency, add-on content, and in-game purchases. Expand International Business. The global market for interactive entertainment continues to grow, and we seek to increase our presence internationally, particularly in Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. We are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in Asia, where our strategy is to build on our licensing relationships and also broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in China. 2K has secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online version of our NBA simulation game in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau. Our first such title, NBA 2K Online , a free-to-play NBA simulation game based on the console edition of NBA 2K , which was co-developed by 2K and Tencent, is the top online PC sports game in China with over 60 million registered users. We have released two iterations of NBA 2K Online and continue to enhance the title with new features. We are also a direct publisher in Japan and South Korea. While we retain title to all intellectual property, in some regions, local publishers, under license agreements, are responsible for localization of software content, distribution, and marketing of the products in their respective local markets. Our Businesses We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of our interactive entertainment content, which includes the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by third parties, the sale of in-game virtual items and advertising, and live services on console, PC, and mobile. Operating margins are dependent in part upon our ability to release new, commercially successful software products and to manage effectively their development and marketing costs. We have 2 internal development studios located in Australia, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Hungary, India, Serbia, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and the United States (U.S.). As of March 31, 2024, we had a research and development staff of 9,639 employees with the technical capabilities to develop software titles for all major consoles, PCs, and mobile platforms in multiple languages and territories. Agreements with third-party developers generally give us exclusive publishing and marketing rights and require us to make development payments, pay royalties based on product sales, and satisfy other conditions. Development payments for software titles are typically recoupable against royalties otherwise due to developers based on software sales. Our agreements with third-party developers generally provide us with the right to monitor development efforts and to cease making development payments if specified development milestones are not satisfied. We also regularly monitor the level of development payments in light of the expected sales for the related titles. We engage in evolving business models such as online gaming, virtual currency, add-on content, and in-game purchases, and we expect to continue to generate incremental revenue from these opportunities. We also generate revenue from advertising within our software products. Rockstar Games. Rockstar Games' strategy is to develop a limited number of titles that are known for their quality and longevity in the market for which they can create sequels and incremental revenue opportunities through virtual currency, add-on content, and in-game purchases. Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally developed. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of the Grand Theft Auto , LA Noire , Max Payne , Midnight Club , Red Dead Redemption , and other popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action/adventure product category and to create groundbreaking entertainment. We believe that Rockstar Games has established a uniquely original, popular, cultural phenomenon with its Grand Theft Auto series, which is the interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand and has sold-in over 420 million units worldwide. Our most recent installment, Grand Theft Auto V , which was released in 2013, has sold-in over 195 million units worldwide and includes access to Grand Theft Auto Online . Rockstar Games continues to invest in the franchise and plans to release Grand Theft Auto VI in the Fall of calendar 2025. The label released its first trailer for the title in December 2023 and will share more details over time. Red Dead Redemption 2 , which has been a critical and commercial success that set numerous entertainment industry records, has sold-in more than 60 million units worldwide to date. Rockstar Games continues to expand on its established series by developing sequels, offering downloadable episodes, and providing additional content. Rockstar Games' titles are published across all key platforms, including mobile. 2K. Our 2K label has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across all key platforms and across a range of genres including shooter, action, role-playing, strategy, sports, and family/casual entertainment. In recent years, 2K has expanded its offerings to include several new franchises that are expected to enhance and diversify its slate of games and provide opportunities for sequels and additional content. We expect 2K to continue to develop new, successful franchises in the future. 2K's internally owned and developed franchises include the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit selling BioShock , Mafia , Sid Meier's Civilization , and XCOM franchises. 2K also has long-held publishing rights for Borderlands and Tiny Tina's Wonderlands from Gearbox. As set forth under "Recent Developments," below, on March 27, 2024, we entered into an agreement to purchase Gearbox, which is expected to close in first quarter of Fiscal 2025 and will bring these intellectual properties in-house. 2K's realistic sports simulation titles include our flagship NBA 2K series, which continues to be the top-ranked NBA basketball video game, the WWE 2K professional wrestling series, PGA TOUR 2K , and TopSpin 2K . 2K also publishes mobile titles, including WWE SuperCard . We have expanded our relationship with the NBA through the NBA 2K League , a competitive eSports league jointly owned by us and the NBA. Private Division. Our Private Division label is dedicated to bringing titles from the industry's leading creative talent to market and is the publisher, developer, and owner of Kerbal Space Program and OlliOlli World . Zynga. Our Zynga label publishes popular free-to-play mobile games that deliver high quality, deeply engaging entertainment experiences and generates revenue from in-game sales and in-game advertising. Zynga's strategy is to have numerous games in concept development and to determine which titles are best suited for soft launch and worldwide launch based on the achievement of various milestones and KPI thresholds. Zynga's diverse portfolio of popular game franchises has been downloaded more than six billion times, including CSR Racing , Dragon City , Empires Puzzles , FarmVille , Golf Rival , Harry Potter: Puzzles Spells , Match Factory! , Merge Dragons! , Merge Magic! , Monster Legends , Toon Blast , Top Eleven , Top Troops , Toy Blast , Two Dots , Words With Friends , Zynga Poker , and a high volume of hyper-casual mobile titles, including Fill the Fridge!, Parking Jam 3D , Power Slap , Pull the Pin, Twisted Tangle, and Tangled Snakes . 3 Recent Developments Pending Acquisition. On March 27, 2024, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement to purchase 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of The Gearbox Entertainment Company, Inc. ("Gearbox"), from Embracer Group AB. The purchase price is $460.0, consisting of newly issued shares of Take-Two common stock, valued based on the volume weighted average closing price per share of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market for the five consecutive trading days ending on (and including) the trading day immediately preceding the closing date, subject to adjustments as defined in the Share Purchase Agreement. The transaction, which is currently anticipated to close during the first quarter in fiscal 2025, is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions for both parties. Intellectual Property Our business is highly dependent on the creation, acquisition, licensing, and protection of intellectual property. We believe that content ownership facilitates our internal product development efforts and maximizes profit potential. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying, and distribution. We also enter into content license agreements, such as those with sports leagues, players associations, copyrighted fictional characters and entertainment brands, car manufacturers, music labels, and musicians. These licenses are typically limited to the use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, we license and include console manufacturer technology in our products on a non-exclusive basis, which allows our games to be played on their respective hardware systems. Manufacturing Platform manufacturers, such as Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo, either manufacture or control the selection of approved manufacturers of physical copies of software products sold for use on their respective hardware platforms. We place a purchase order for the manufacture of our products with Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft's approved replicator and then send software code to the manufacturer, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. Games are generally shipped within two to three weeks of receipt of our purchase order and all materials. Our software titles typically carry a 90-day limited warranty. Arrangements with Platform Manufacturers We have entered into license agreements with Sony and Microsoft to develop and publish software in Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and certain Latin American, Middle Eastern, and African countries. We are not required to obtain any licenses from hardware manufacturers to develop titles for the PC. Sony. Effective March 23, 2017, we entered into a PlayStation Global Developer and Publisher Agreement with Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. and certain of its affiliates, pursuant to which Sony granted us the right and license to develop, publish, have manufactured, market, advertise, distribute and sell PlayStation compatible products for all PlayStation systems. The agreement requires us to submit products to Sony for approval and for us to make royalty payments to Sony based on the number of units manufactured or revenue from digitally downloaded content. In addition, products for PlayStation systems are required to be manufactured by Sony-approved manufacturers. On September 30, 2020, we entered into a PlayStation 5 Amendment, with an effective date of May 1, 2020 (the PS5 Amendment ), to our existing PlayStation Global Developer and Publisher Agreement. The PS5 Amendment amends the existing agreement to include the PlayStation 5 interactive entertainment system in the definition of systems in the agreement and to extend all of the terms and conditions of the existing agreement to our PlayStation 5 products and services. The term of the agreement, as amended, expires on March 31, 2025, with automatic one-year renewal terms thereafter (unless one party gives the other notice of termination). Sony may terminate the agreement for any or no reason upon 30 days notice. The agreement may also be terminated by Sony immediately in the event of a breach by us or our bankruptcy or insolvency. Upon expiration or termination of the agreement, we have certain rights to sell off existing inventories. Microsoft. Under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, Microsoft granted us the right and license to develop, publish, have manufactured, market, advertise, distribute and sell Xbox compatible products. The agreements require us to submit products to Microsoft for approval and to make royalty payments to Microsoft based on the number of units manufactured or revenue from digitally downloaded content. In addition, products for the Xbox consoles are required to be manufactured by Microsoft-approved manufacturers. 4 Effective as of November 17, 2005, we entered into an Xbox 360 Publisher License Agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox 360 console (the Xbox 360 Agreement ). Effective as of July 1, 2020, we entered into an Xbox Console Publisher License Agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox Series X|S and Xbox One consoles (the Xbox Next Gen Agreement and together with Xbox 360 Agreement, the Xbox Agreements ). The terms of both Xbox Agreements expire on March 31, 2025, each with automatic one-year renewal terms thereafter (unless one party gives the other advance notice of non-renewal). These Xbox Agreements may be terminated by Microsoft immediately in the event of a breach by us, and the Xbox Next Gen Agreement may also be terminated by Microsoft immediately in the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency. Upon expiration or termination of each of the Xbox Agreements, we have certain rights to sell off existing inventories. Sales We sell software titles both digitally and physically through direct relationships with digital storefronts and platform partners, large retail customers, and third-party distributors. We sell our products globally and have sales operations in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We are dependent on a limited number of customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2024, accounted for 79.8% of our net revenue, with Sony, Apple, Google, and Microsoft each accounting for more than 10.0% of our net revenue. We distribute our titles, add-on content, and in-game purchases through direct digital download to consoles, PCs, and mobile devices. We view digital distribution as the principal channel for our industry and Company; however, we expect that packaged goods and traditional retailers will continue to be an important channel for the sale of our console products for the foreseeable future, particularly in connection with the release of certain titles for consoles or certain regions where digital distribution is not as well established. We also sell advertising within a number of our games. Our advertising offerings provide creative ways for marketers and advertisers to reach and engage with our players and are generally essential for our free-to-play titles. Our advertising offerings include banner and interstitial advertisements, engagement advertisements and offers in which players can participate in watch-to-earn engagements or other offer engagements, branded virtual items, and sponsorships that integrate relevant advertising and messaging within game play. Marketing Our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to acquire new users, maximize consumer interest in our titles, promote brand name recognition of our franchises, assist retailers and to properly position, package and merchandise our titles. Marketing is particularly important for our mobile titles to build a large community of players. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers in connection with their own promotional efforts. We market titles by: Implementing public relations campaigns, using social, digital, online, television, outdoor, and print marketing, including certain performance marketing programs. We aim to label and market our products in accordance with the applicable principles and guidelines of the Entertainment Software Rating Board, ("ESRB"), an independent self-regulatory body that assigns ratings and enforces advertising guidelines for the interactive software industry. Stimulating continued sales by reducing the wholesale prices of our products to retailers, digital storefronts, and platform providers at various times during the life of a product. Price protection may occur at any time in a product's life cycle but typically occurs three to nine months after a product's initial launch. In certain international markets, we also provide volume rebates to stimulate continued product sales. Employing various other marketing methods designed to promote consumer awareness, including social media, in-store promotions and point-of-purchase displays, direct mail, cooperative advertising, attendance at trade shows as well as product sampling through demonstration software distributed via the Internet or the digital online services. We have been able to build a large community of players, particularly for mobile titles, through players discovering of our games in platform storefronts, the viral and social features built into the network effects of our games, as well as the cross-promotion of our games to our existing audience. However, we also acquire our players through paid advertising channels. We advertise our mobile games primarily within other mobile applications and on social networks, often through in-app and other advertising partners such as Facebook and Google. As of March 31, 2024, we had a sales and marketing staff of 1,353 people. 5 Competition In our business, we compete with: Other interactive entertainment companies, including those offering mobile games, that range in size and cost structure from very small with limited resources to very large with greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources than ours. Examples of our competitors include Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts Inc., Embracer Group AB, Playrix, Playtika, Roblox, Scopely, Tencent, and Ubisoft Entertainment S.A. We also expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing games and applications. Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo for the sale of interactive entertainment software. Each of these competitors is a large developer and marketer of software for their own platforms and has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns. Other software, hardware, entertainment, and media for limited retail shelf space and promotional resources. The competition for shelf space, whether physical or virtual, and promotional support is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced entertainment software titles and hardware. Other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online applications, and other forms of entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. Competition in the interactive entertainment in