Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 16 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6 . [Reserved] 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69 Item 9 B . Other Information 71 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 71 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 71 Item 11. Executive Compensation 71 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 71 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 71 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 71 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 72 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 75 Signatures 76 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. References to Textron Inc., the Company, we, our and us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated, refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We conduct our business through six operating segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Textron eAviation, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our captive finance business. Our segments include numerous separately incorporated subsidiaries. Total revenues for 2023 were $13.7 billion and are presented below by segment and customer type. The following description of our business and operating segments should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Textron Aviation Segment Textron Aviation is a leader in general aviation. Textron Aviation manufactures, sells and services Cessna and Beechcraft aircraft, and services the Hawker brand of business jets. The segment has two principal product lines: aircraft and aftermarket parts and services. Aircraft includes sales of business jets, turboprop aircraft, military trainer and defense aircraft and piston engine aircraft. Aftermarket parts and services includes commercial parts sales and maintenance, inspection and repair services. Textron Aviation's business jets include the Cessna Citation M2 Gen2, Citation CJ3 Gen2, Citation CJ4 Gen2, Citation XLS Gen2, Citation Latitude and the Citation Longitude. Textron Aviation s turboprop aircraft include the Beechcraft King Air 260, King Air 360ER and King Air 360, and the Cessna Caravan, Grand Caravan EX and SkyCourier. In addition, Textron Aviation s military trainer and defense aircraft include the Beechcraft T-6 trainer, which has been used to train pilots from more than 40 countries, and the AT-6 light attack military aircraft, which has achieved military type certification from the U.S. Air Force. Textron Aviation also offers piston engine aircraft including the Beechcraft Baron G58 and Bonanza G36, and the Cessna Skyhawk, Skylane, Turbo Skylane, and Turbo Stationair HD. Textron Aviation markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives. With a product lineup ranging from introductory training aircraft through super mid-size business jets, Textron Aviation s diverse customer base includes fractional aircraft businesses, charter and fleet operators, corporate aviation, individual buyers, training schools, airlines, and special mission, military and government operators. In support of its family of aircraft, Textron Aviation operates a global network of more than 20 service centers, two of which are co-located with Bell. In addition, more than 300 authorized independent service centers are located throughout the world. Textron Aviation-owned service centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Textron Aviation also provides its customers with around-the-clock parts support and offers a mobile support program with over 80 mobile service units. Textron Aviation is developing the Citation Ascend, a high-performance midsize business jet, which is expected to enter into service in 2025. The Beechcraft Denali, a high-performance single engine turboprop aircraft also under development, achieved its first flight in November 2021 and is in the certification process with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The Denali will be powered by an engine expected to be up to 20% more efficient than similarly sized engines. 3 Table of Contents Bell Segment Bell is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and provides parts and support services to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the United States. Bell s major U.S. Government programs are for the production and support of V-22 tiltrotor aircraft, primarily for the U.S. Department of Defense; the development of the V-280 Valor, a next generation tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Army s Future Long Range Assault Aircraft (FLRAA) program; and production and support of H-1 helicopters for the U.S. Marine Corps. Under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program, Bell offers the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and H-1 helicopter products for sale to other countries. The FLRAA development contract was awarded to Bell in December 2022 as part of the U.S. Army s Future Vertical Lift (FVL) initiative. Bell is developing a tiltrotor aircraft, based on the V-280 Valor, to meet U.S. Army weapon system requirements. The V-280 Valor first flew in December 2017 and has conducted over 200 hours of flight testing. Bell is also developing a new rotorcraft, the Bell 360 Invictus, for the U.S. Army's Future Attack Reconnaissance Aircraft (FARA) Competitive Prototype Program, which is part of the U.S. government's FVL initiative. In March 2020, the U.S. Army selected the 360 Invictus to move to the second phase of the Competitive Prototype Program. Bell continues to progress on its development of the 360 Invictus Prototype under this phase of the cost-share program. On February 8, 2024, as part of plans to rebalance its aviation modernization investments, the U.S. Army announced plans to discontinue development of the FARA at the conclusion of FY24 prototyping activities. Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, private, law enforcement, utility, public safety and emergency medical helicopter operators, and U.S. and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The commercial helicopters currently offered by Bell include the 429, 407GXi, 412EPX and 505 Jet Ranger X. Bell s first super medium commercial helicopter, the 525 Relentless, is currently in the certification process with the FAA. For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for an installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters. Bell operates a global network of eight Company-operated service centers, two of which are co-located with Textron Aviation, and four global parts distribution centers. In addition, approximately 85 independent service centers are located in about 35 countries. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering. Textron Systems Segment The businesses in our Textron Systems segment develop, manufacture and integrate a variety of products and services for U.S. and international military, government and commercial customers to support defense, homeland security, aerospace, infrastructure protection and other customer missions. Product and service offerings of this segment include electronic systems and solutions, advanced marine craft, piston aircraft engines, live military air-to-air and air-to-ship training, weapons and related components, unmanned aircraft systems and both manned and unmanned armored and specialty vehicles. Notable products developed and produced by the Textron Systems segment include the Ship-to-Shore Connector, the U.S. Navy's next generation of Landing Craft Air Cushion vehicles; a family of test and simulation products; Shadow, the U.S. Army's premier tactical unmanned aircraft system; the Aerosonde Small Unmanned Aircraft System, a multi-mission capable unmanned aircraft system for commercial and military operations; and piston aircraft engines under the Lycoming brand. Notable service offerings of the segment include fee-for-service programs, using unmanned aircraft systems, and live military air-to-air and air-to-ship training and support services for U.S. Navy, Marine and Air Force personnel provided by Airborne Tactical Advantage Company. Industrial Segment Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products within the Kautex and Specialized Vehicles product lines. Kautex is a leader in designing and manufacturing plastic fuel systems for automobiles and light trucks, including blow-molded solutions for conventional plastic fuel tanks and pressurized plastic fuel tanks for hybrid vehicle applications. Kautex also develops and manufactures clear-vision systems for automotive safety and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS). Our cleaning systems are comprised of nozzles, reservoirs, inlets and pumps to support onboard cleaning for windscreens, headlamps and ADAS cameras and sensors. In addition, Kautex produces plastic tanks for selective catalytic reduction systems used to 4 Table of Contents reduce emissions from diesel engines, and other fuel system components. Kautex has also developed and begun to offer lightweight, composite Pentatonic battery systems, which include enclosures, underbody protection and thermal management systems, for use in electric vehicles, from hybrid to full battery-powered. Kautex s business model is focused on developing and maintaining long-term customer relationships with leading global original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Kautex, which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany, operates over 30 plants in 13 countries in close proximity to its customers, along with 9 engineering/research and development locations around the world. Our Specialized Vehicles product line includes products sold by the Textron Specialized Vehicles businesses under our E-Z-GO, Arctic Cat, TUG Technologies, Douglas Equipment, Premier, Safeaero, Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman brands. These businesses design, manufacture and sell golf cars; off-road utility vehicles; powersports products; light transportation vehicles; aviation ground support equipment; professional turf-maintenance equipment; and specialized turf-care vehicles. A significant portion of the products sold by these businesses are powered with lithium batteries, greatly reducing the products impact on the environment. The diversified customer base for the Specialized Vehicles product line includes golf courses and resorts, government agencies and municipalities, consumers, outdoor enthusiasts, and commercial and industrial users such as factories, warehouses, airlines, planned communities, hunting preserves, educational and corporate campuses, sporting venues and landscaping professionals. Sales are made through a network of independent distributors and dealers worldwide and the Bass Pro Shops and Cabela's retail outlets, which sell our products under the Tracker Off Road brand, as well as factory direct resources. In addition, we also manufacture products for OEMs for resale to customers under the OEM s branding. Textron eAviation Segment Our Textron eAviation segment includes Pipistrel, a manufacturer of light aircraft, along with other research and development initiatives related to sustainable aviation solutions. Pipistrel offers a family of light aircraft and gliders with both electric and combustion engines. Pipistrel s Velis Electro is the world s first, and currently only, electric aircraft to receive full type certification from the European Union Aviation Safety Agency and from the UK Civil Aviation Authority. Finance Segment Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Finance segment provides financing primarily to purchasers of new and pre-owned Textron Aviation aircraft and Bell helicopters. A substantial number of the originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S. In 2023 and 2022, our Finance group made payments of $160 million and $92 million, respectively, to finance the Manufacturing group's sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties. Backlog Backlog represents amounts allocated to contracts that we expect to recognize as revenue in future periods when we perform under the contracts. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contracts. Our backlog at the end of 2023 and 2022 is summarized below: (In millions) December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 Textron Aviation $ 7,169 $ 6,387 Bell 4,780 4,781 Textron Systems 1,950 2,098 Total backlog $ 13,899 $ 13,266 U.S. Government Contracts and Other Governmental Regulation Our operations, products and services are subject to various government regulations, including regulations related to U.S. government business, international regulation of aviation products and services, and environmental regulations. Contracts with the U.S. Government, including contracts under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program, generated approximately 21% of our consolidated revenues in 2023, primarily in our Bell and Textron Systems segments. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation; define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts; and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of 5 Table of Contents classified and covered defense information and the export of certain products and technical data. New laws, regulations or procurement requirements, or changes to current ones, can significantly increase our costs, reducing our profitability. Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted and services rendered, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government may not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and may be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; (c) the U.S. Government may not be liable for assets we own and utilize to provide services under the fee-for-service contracts; and (d) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. See Aerospace and Defense Industry section in