Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 70 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 74 Signatures 75 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. References to Textron Inc., the Company, we, our and us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated, refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We conduct our business through five operating segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our captive finance business. Our segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Total revenues by segment and customer type for 2021 are presented below. The following description of our business and operating segments should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Textron Aviation Segment Textron Aviation is a leader in general aviation. Textron Aviation manufactures, sells and services Beechcraft and Cessna aircraft, and services the Hawker brand of business jets. The segment has two principal product lines: aircraft and aftermarket parts and services. Aircraft includes sales of business jets, turboprop aircraft, military trainer and defense aircraft and piston engine aircraft. Aftermarket parts and services includes commercial parts sales, and maintenance, inspection and repair services. Textron Aviation markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives. The family of jets currently offered by Textron Aviation includes the Citation M2 Gen2, Citation CJ3+, Citation CJ4 Gen2, Citation XLS Gen2, Citation Latitude and the Citation Longitude. Textron Aviation s turboprop aircraft include the Beechcraft King Air 260, King Air 360ER and King Air 360, and the Cessna Caravan and Grand Caravan EX. In addition, Textron Aviation s military trainer and defense aircraft include the T-6 trainer, which has been used to train pilots from more than 20 countries, and the AT-6 light attack military aircraft. Textron Aviation also offers piston engine aircraft including the Beechcraft Baron and Bonanza, and the Cessna Skyhawk, Skylane, and the Turbo Stationair HD. In support of its family of aircraft, Textron Aviation operates a global network of 21 service centers, two of which are co-located with Bell, along with more than 300 authorized independent service centers located throughout the world. Textron Aviation-owned service centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Textron Aviation also provides its customers with around-the-clock parts support and offers a mobile support program with approximately 70 mobile service units. In addition, Able Aerospace Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Textron Aviation, provides component and maintenance, repair and overhaul services in support of commercial and military fixed- and rotor-wing aircraft. Product Development Programs Textron Aviation is developing the Cessna SkyCourier, a twin-engine, high-wing, large-utility turboprop aircraft, which achieved its first flight in May 2020. The aircraft is continuing to progress through the certification process having accomplished over 2,100 hours of flight test activity. The Denali, a high-performance single engine turboprop aircraft currently under development, achieved its first flight in November 2021. 3 Table of Contents Bell Segment Bell is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and provides parts and support services to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the United States. Bell s primary U.S. Government programs are for the production and support of the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft primarily for the U.S. Department of Defense, and also offers this aircraft to other countries under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. The H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model, the UH-1Y, and an advanced attack model, the AH-1Z, which have 84% parts commonality between them. While the U.S. Marine Corps is the primary customer for H-1 helicopters, we also sell these helicopters under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, private, law enforcement, utility and emergency medical helicopter operators, and the U.S. and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The commercial helicopters currently offered by Bell include the 429, 407GXi, 412EPX, 412EPI, 412EP, 505 Jet Ranger X and Huey II. For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for an installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of six Company-operated service centers, four global parts distribution centers and nearly 100 independent service centers located in approximately 35 countries. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering. Product Development Programs In October 2019, Bell announced a new rotorcraft, the Bell 360 Invictus, which it is developing as its entrant for the U.S. Army's Future Attack Reconnaissance Aircraft (FARA) Competitive Prototype Program, part of the U.S. government's Future Vertical Lift (FVL) initiative. The FARA program was initiated by the U.S. Army to develop a successor to the retired Bell OH-58D Kiowa Warrior helicopter. In March 2020, the U.S. Army selected the 360 Invictus to move to the second phase of the Competitive Prototype Program. During 2021, Bell continued to progress on its development of the 360 Invictus Prototype. Bell is continuing development of the V-280 Valor, a next generation vertical lift aircraft that is in competition for the Future Long Range Assault Aircraft (FLRAA) program, which is part of the U.S. Army s FVL initiative. The V-280 achieved its first flight in December 2017, conducted over 200 hours of flight testing, and has demonstrated all key performance objectives established by the U.S. Army, including flying at 300 knots airspeed. In March 2020, the U.S. Army awarded Bell a Competitive Demonstration and Risk Reduction contract for the next stage of the FLRAA program; the scope and period of performance for this contract was extended in March 2021. The U.S. Army is expected to award the contract for the FLRAA program in 2022. Bell s first super medium commercial helicopter, the 525 Relentless, is currently in the certification process with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Textron Systems Segment The businesses in our Textron Systems segment develop and integrate a variety of products and services for U.S. and international military, government and commercial customers to support defense, homeland security, aerospace, infrastructure protection and other customer missions. Product and service offerings of this segment include unmanned aircraft systems, electronic systems and solutions, advanced marine craft, piston aircraft engines, live military air-to-air and air-to-ship training, weapons and related components, and armored and specialty vehicles. Notable products developed and produced by the Textron Systems segment include the Shadow, the U.S. Army's premier tactical unmanned aircraft system; the Aerosonde Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems, a multi-mission capable unmanned aircraft system for commercial and military operations; the U.S. Navy's next generation Landing Craft Air Cushion, developed as part of the Ship-to-Shore Connector program; and piston aircraft engines under the Lycoming brand. Notable service offerings of the segment include fee-for-service programs using unmanned aircraft systems and live military air-to-air and air-to-ship training and support services for U.S. Navy, Marine and Air Force personnel provided by Airborne Tactical Advantage Company (ATAC). 4 Table of Contents Industrial Segment Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products within the Fuel Systems and Functional Components and Specialized Vehicles product lines. Our Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line is produced by our Kautex business unit which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Kautex is a leader in designing and manufacturing plastic fuel systems for automobiles and light trucks, including blow-molded solutions for conventional plastic fuel tanks and pressurized plastic fuel tanks for hybrid vehicle applications. Kautex also develops and manufactures clear-vision systems for automotive safety and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS). Our cleaning systems are comprised of nozzles, reservoirs, inlets and pumps to support onboard cleaning for windscreens, headlamps and ADAS cameras and sensors. In addition, Kautex produces plastic tanks for selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines and other fuel system components. Kautex has also developed and begun to market the Pentatonic battery system, a customizable, lightweight battery housing with thermal management capabilities, comprised of either thermoplastic composite or composite metal hybrid, for use in electric vehicles, from hybrid to full battery-powered. Kautex s business model is focused on developing and maintaining long-term customer relationships with leading global OEMs. Kautex operates over 30 plants in 14 countries in close proximity to our customers, along with 10 engineering/research and development locations around the world. Our Specialized Vehicles product line includes products sold by the Textron Specialized Vehicles businesses under our E-Z-GO, Arctic Cat, TUG Technologies, Douglas Equipment, Premier, Safeaero, Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman brands. These businesses design, manufacture and sell golf cars, off-road utility vehicles, recreational side-by-side and all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, light transportation vehicles, aviation ground support equipment and professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. A significant portion of the products sold by these businesses are powered with lithium batteries, greatly reducing the products impact on the environment. Their diversified customer base for the Specialized Vehicles product line includes golf courses and resorts, government agencies and municipalities, consumers, outdoor enthusiasts, and commercial and industrial users such as factories, warehouses, airlines, planned communities, hunting preserves, educational and corporate campuses, sporting venues, municipalities and landscaping professionals. Sales are made through a network of independent distributors and dealers worldwide and the Bass Pro Shops and Cabela s retail outlets, which sell our products under the Tracker Off-Road brand, as well as factory direct resources. Finance Segment Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Finance segment provides financing primarily to purchasers of new and pre-owned Textron Aviation aircraft and Bell helicopters. A substantial number of the originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S. In 2021 and 2020, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $100 million and $195 million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. Our Finance segment s largest business risk is the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See Finance Segment section in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information about the Finance segment s credit performance. Backlog Backlog represents amounts allocated to contracts that we expect to recognize as revenue in future periods when we perform under the contracts. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contracts. Our backlog at the end of 2021 and 2020 is summarized below: (In millions) January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021 Bell $ 3,871 $ 5,342 Textron Aviation 4,120 1,603 Textron Systems 2,144 2,556 Total backlog $ 10,135 $ 9,501 5 Table of Contents U.S. Government Contracts and Other Governmental Regulation Our operations, products and services are subject to various government regulations, including regulations related to U.S. government business, international regulation of aviation products and services, and environmental regulations. Contracts with the U.S. Government, including contracts under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program, generated approximately 26% of our consolidated revenues in 2021, primarily in our Bell and Textron Systems segments. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation; define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts; and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified and covered defense information and the export of certain products and technical data. New laws, regulations or procurement requirements, or changes to current ones, can significantly increase our costs, reducing our profitability. Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted and services rendered, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government may not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and may be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; (c) the U.S. Government may not be liable for assets we own and utilize to provide services under the fee-for-service contracts; and (d) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. See Aerospace and Defense Industry section in