Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 41 Item 9B. Other Information 41 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 42 Item 11. Executive Compensation 42 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 42 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 42 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 43 Signatures 45 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Tyler Technologies, Inc. ( Tyler ) is a major provider of integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector. We partner with clients to make government more accessible to the public, more responsive to the needs of citizens and more efficient in its operations. We have a broad line of software solutions and services to address the information technology ( IT ) needs of major areas of operations for cities, counties, schools and other government entities. We offer our clients on-premises software solutions and for clients who prefer not to physically acquire the software and hardware, most of our software applications can be delivered as software as a service ( SaaS ). We provide professional IT services to our clients, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and, at times, product modifications. In addition, we are the nation s largest provider of outsourced property appraisal services for taxing jurisdictions. We also provide continuing client support services to ensure product performance and reliability, which provides us with long-term client relationships and a significant base of recurring maintenance revenue. We provide electronic document filing ( e-filing ) solutions, which simplify the filing and management of court documents. In addition, we provide digital government services and payment solutions. MARKET OVERVIEW The state and local government market is one of the largest and most decentralized IT markets in the country, consisting of all 50 states, approximately 3,000 counties, 36,000 cities and towns and 12,900 school districts. This market is also comprised of approximately 38,000 special districts and other agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information management requirements. Traditionally, local government bodies and agencies performed state-mandated duties, including property assessment, record keeping, road maintenance, law enforcement, administration of election and judicial functions, and the provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and urgent issues are confronting local governments, each of which demands a service response. These areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and finance, public safety, health and human services, planning, regulatory and maintenance and records and document management. Transfers of responsibility from the federal and state governments to county and municipal governments and agencies in these and other areas also place additional service and financial requirements on these local government units. In addition, constituents of local governments are increasingly demanding improved service and better access to information from public entities. As a result, local governments recognize the increasing value of information management systems and services to, among other things, improve revenue collection, provide increased access to information, and streamline delivery of services to their constituents. Local government bodies are now recognizing that e-government is an additional responsibility for community development. From integrated tax systems to integrated civil and criminal justice information systems, many counties and cities have benefited significantly from the implementation of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies or government offices to share data and provide a more comprehensive approach to information management. Many city and county governmental agencies also have unique individual information management requirements, which must be tailored to the specific functions of each particular office. Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the staff necessary to support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to establish long-term relationships with reliable providers of high quality IT products and services such as Tyler. Although local governments often face budgetary constraints in their operations, their primary revenue sources are usually property taxes, and to a lesser extent, utility billings and other fees, which historically tend to be relatively stable. In addition, the acquisition of new technology typically enables local governments to operate more efficiently, more securely, and often provides a measurable return on investment that justifies the purchase of software and related services. Gartner, Inc., a leading information technology research and advisory company, estimates that state and local government application and vertical specific software spending will grow from $23.6 billion in 2022 to $32.3 billion in 2025. The professional services and support segments of the market are expected to expand from $32.0 billion in 2022 to $38.4 billion in 2025. Application and vertical specific software sales in the primary and secondary education segments of the market is expected to expand from $4.9 billion in 2022 to $6.0 billion in 2025 while professional services and support are expected to grow from $5.1 billion in 2022 to $6.3 billion in 2025. For the national and international government markets, application and vertical specific software sales is expected to expand from $38.5 billion in 2022 to $53.8 billion in 2025 while professional services and support are expected to grow from $63.1 billion in 2022 to $74.4 billion in 2025. 3 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that addresses the information technology needs of cities, counties, states, schools, federal agencies, and other government entities. We design, develop, market and support a broad range of software solutions to serve mission-critical back-office functions of the public sector. Many of our software applications include Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public access to a variety of information or that allow the public to transact business with governments online. Our software solutions and services are generally grouped in nine major areas: Financial Management and Education Courts and Justice Public Safety Property Appraisal and Tax Planning, Regulatory and Maintenance Land and Vital Records Management Data and Insights Platform Technologies NIC Digital Government Services Each of our core software systems consists of several fully integrated applications. For clients who acquire software for use on premises, we generally license our systems under standard perpetual license agreements that provide the client with a fully paid, nonexclusive, nontransferable right to use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financial management and education and property appraisal and tax, we offer multiple solutions designed to meet the needs of different sized governments. We also offer SaaS arrangements for clients who do not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or to make up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies. For these clients, the software and client data are hosted at our data centers or at third-party locations, and clients typically sign multi-year contracts for these subscription-based services. A description of our suites of products and services follows: Financial Management and Education Our financial management and education solutions are enterprise resource planning systems for the public sector, which integrate information across all facets of a client organization. Our financial management solutions include modular fund accounting systems that can be tailored to meet the needs of virtually any government agency or not-for-profit entity. Our financial management systems include modules for general ledger, budget preparation, fixed assets, requisitions, purchase orders, bid management, accounts payable, contract management, accounts receivable, investment management, inventory control, project and grant accounting, work orders, job costing, GASB reporting, payroll and human resources. All of our financial management systems are intended to conform to government auditing and financial reporting requirements and generally accepted accounting principles. We sell utility billing systems that support the billing and collection of metered and non-metered services, along with multiple billing cycles. Our Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow clients to access information online such as average consumption and transaction history. In addition, our systems can accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks. We also offer specialized products that automate numerous city and county functions, including municipal courts, parking tickets, equipment and project costing, animal licenses, business licenses, permits and inspections, code enforcement, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance billing, fleet maintenance, and cemetery records management. In addition to providing financial management systems to K-12 schools, we sell student information systems for K-12 schools, which manage such activities as scheduling, grades and attendance. We also offer student transportation solutions to manage school bus routing optimization, fleet management, field trips and other related functions. Tyler s financial management and education solutions include Web components that enhance governments service capabilities by facilitating online access to information for both employees and citizens and enabling online transactions. Courts and Justice We offer a complete, fully integrated suite of judicial solutions designed to handle complex, multi-jurisdictional county or statewide implementations as well as single county systems. Our solutions help eliminate duplicate data entry, promote more effective business procedures, and improve efficiency across the entire justice process. 4 Our unified court case management system is designed to automate the tracking and management of information involved in all case types, including criminal, traffic, civil, family, probate and juvenile courts. It also tracks the status of cases, processes fines and fees and generates the specialized judgment and sentencing documents, notices and forms required in the court process. Documents received by the court can be scanned into the electronic case file and easily retrieved for viewing. Documents generated by the court can be electronically signed and automatically attached to the electronic case file. Additional modules automate the management of court calendars, coordinate judges' schedules and generate court dockets. Our targeted courtroom technologies allow courts to rapidly review calendars, cases and view documents in the courtroom. Courts may also take advantage of our related jury management system. We also offer a solution for online dispute resolution that automates the flow and resolution of common and historically time-consuming disputes including debt, landlord, tenant, small claims, child custody and other case types. Our court and law enforcement systems allow the public to access, via the Internet, a variety of information, including non-confidential criminal and civil court records, jail booking and release information, bond and bondsmen information, and court calendars and dockets. In addition, our systems allow cities and counties to accept payments for traffic and parking tickets over the Internet, with a seamless and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial systems. Our prosecutor system enables state attorney offices to track and manage criminal cases, including detailed victim information and private case notes. Investigative reports and charging instrument documents can be generated and stored for later viewing. Prosecutors can schedule and record the outcome of grand jury hearings. When integrated with the court system, prosecutors can view the electronic case file and related documents, as well as manage witness lists and subpoenas needed for court hearings. Our supervision system allows pre-trial and probation offices to manage offender caseloads. Supervision officers can track contact schedules, risk/needs assessments and reassessments, detailed drug test results, employment histories, compliance with conditions and payments of fees and restitution. Documents and forms, like pre-sentence investigations or revocation orders, can be generated and stored for easy viewing. When integrated with the jail and court systems, supervision officers obtain easy access and quick notification of offenders that have court hearings scheduled, are arrested locally, and have new warrants issued. We also offer a court case management solution that automates and tracks all aspects of municipal courts and offices. It is a fully integrated, graphical application that provides effective case management, document processing and cash/bond management. This system complies with all state reporting and conviction reports and includes electronic reporting and also integrates with certain of our financial management solutions and public safety solutions. Also our product solutions provide a suite of financial and communications applications ranging from deposit technologies for commissary, ordering, and warehouse technology to a host of informational, electronic communications, security, accounting, and financial trust management components for correctional facilities. Public Safety Our public safety software is a fully unified and comprehensive solution for law enforcement, fire and EMS, including 911 / computer aided dispatch ( CAD ), records management, mobile computing, corrections management, Web-based information sharing and decision support. The modules are fully integrated, utilizing a common database and providing full functionality between modules, reducing data entry. The software provides fast, efficient dispatching, and quick access to records, reports and actionable information from an agency s database. Our 911 / CAD solutions provide real-time, critical response dispatch functions in either single- or multi-jurisdictional environments. When integrated with our records management software, a vital link exists between dispatch and the most comprehensive records database available. Within seconds, the dispatch operator and the officer in the field can access critical information, such as prior incidents and outstanding warrants, increasing officer knowledge and safety. The solutions offer strong geographic information systems integration to help dispatchers quickly locate and send the best response during an emergency. Our 911 / CAD solutions dramatically improve performance, response time and unit safety. Our records management solutions for law enforcement and fire track statistical, operational, investigative and management data for inquiry and reporting. The systems create an efficient case processing workflow and help solve crimes with an accessible database that maintains central files on people, places, property, vehicles and criminal activity. Our public safety records management solutions enable easy access to information and simplify reporting. Our mobile computing solutions for law enforcement and fire provide instant access to local, state, regional and federal databases via mobile devices. Officers and firefighters can experience the benefits of obtaining critical, real-time information in the field, while saving time by preparing reports directly in their vehicles. 5 Our jail management systems document and manage information that meets the requirements of a modern jail facility. This includes the booking and housing of persons in custody, supervising defendants on a pre-trial release, maintaining offenders sentenced to local incarceration and billing other agencies for housing inmates. Searching, reporting and tracking features are integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date access to current arrest and incarceration data, including digital mug shots. Our systems also provide warrant checks for visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, automation of statistics, and state and federal reporting. Our civil processing solutions manage civil process needs from document receipt through service, payment process and final closeout. We also have a mobile electronic citation solution through which law enforcement officers can easily enter citation information in a mobile device, which is automatically uploaded into the court or public safety records management systems, rather than hand-writing citations that must be re-entered into the systems. Property Appraisal and Tax We provide systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry and protest tracking, appraisal and tax roll generation, tax statement processing, and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are image and video-enabled to facilitate the storage of and access to the many property-related documents and for the online storage of digital photographs of properties for use in defending values in protest situations. Other related tax applications are available for agencies that bill and collect taxes, including cities, counties, school tax offices, and special taxing and collection agencies. These systems support billing, collections, lock box operations, mortgage company electronic payments, and various reporting requirements. Planning, Regulatory and Maintenance Our planning, regulatory and maintenance software solutions are designed for public sector agencies such as community development, planning, building, code enforcement, tax and revenues, public works, transportation, land control, environmental, fire safety, storm water management, regulatory controls and engineering. These solutions help public sector agencies better manage their day-to-day business functions while streamlining and automating the many aspects of their land management, permitting and planning systems. Our mobile solutions extend automation to the field and Web access brings online services to citizens 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Land and Vital Records Managemen t We also offer a number of specialized software applications designed to help local governments enhance and automate operations involving records and document management. These systems record, scan and index information for the many documents maintained by local governments, such as deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements and vital records (birth, death and marriage certificates). These applications include fully integrated imaging systems with batch and scan processing capabilities and fully integrated receipting and cashiering systems, as well as Web-enabled public access. Our content management solutions allow state and local governments and school districts to capture, deliver, manage and archive electronic information. These solutions streamline the flow of digital information throughout the organization to increase efficiency by transforming paper forms and documents into electronic images that drive key business processes. Data and Insights Our data and insights solutions make existing government data discoverable, usable, and actionable for government workers and the people they serve. The data and insights solution includes a data-as-a-service platform and cloud applications for open data and citizen engagement, exclusively for city, county, state, and federal government organizations. Our data and insights solutions allow government to analyze, visualize, and securely share data across multiple departments and programs. These solutions deliver data-driven innovation and cost-savings by bringing together disparate systems and leveraging the cloud to dramatically enhance the effectiveness of government programs, to improve quality of life for residents, to positively impact local economies, and to achieve excellence in government operations. Platform Technologies We offer a low-code application development platform solution for case management and business process management. Whether based on premises or in the cloud, its Data-First approach allows the application to be implemented immediately and configured continuously, enabling clients to get to work quickly while keeping costs low. Our low code application platform allows government agencies the ability to track, collaborate, and report on the data that drives activities forward. 6 NIC Digital Government Services On April 21, 2021, we acquired NIC, Inc. ( NIC ). NIC delivers user-friendly digital services that make it easier and more efficient for citizens and businesses to interact with government providing valuable conveniences like applying for unemployment insurance, submitting business filings, renewing licenses, accessing information and making secure payments without visiting a government office. NIC digital government services designs, builds, and operates digital government services on an enterprise-wide basis on behalf of state and local governments desiring to provide access to government information and to complete secure government-based transactions through multiple digital channels. These digital government services consist of websites and applications NIC has built that allow consumers, such as businesses and citizens, to access government information, complete transactions and make electronic payments. NIC also provides payment processing services, software development and digital government services, other than those services provided under state enterprise contracts, to federal agencies as well as state and local governments. We derive our revenues from five primary sources: Software licenses and royalties Subscription-based services Software services Maintenance and support Appraisal services Software Licenses and Royalties Many of our software arrangements involve off-the-shelf software. We recognize the revenue allocable to off-the-shelf software licenses and specified upgrades at a point in time when control of the software license transfers to the customer, unless the software is not considered distinct. We consider "off-the-shelf" software to be distinct when it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying code, it can be used by the customer for the customer s purpose upon installation, and remaining services such as training are not considered highly interdependent or interrelated to the product's functionality. For arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or where software services are otherwise not considered distinct, we recognize revenue over time by measuring progress-to-completion. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. These arrangements are often implemented over an extended period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts recognized in revenue are calculated using the progress-to-completion measurement after giving effect to any changes in our cost estimates. Changes to total estimated contract costs, if any, are recorded in the period they are determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent. Software license fees are billed in accordance with the contract terms. Typically, a majority of the fee is due when access to the software license is made available to the customer and the remainder of the fee due over a passage of time stipulated by the contract. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. We recognize royalty revenue when the sale occurs under the terms of our third-party royalty arrangements. Currently, our third-party royalties are recognized on an estimated basis and adjusted if needed, when we receive notice of amounts we are entitled to receive. We typically receive notice of royalty revenues we are entitled to and billed on a quarterly basis in the quarter immediately following the royalty reporting period and adjustments have not been significant. Subscription-Based Services Subscription-based revenue is primarily derived from our SaaS arrangements, which generally utilize the Tyler private cloud, as well as our transaction-based offerings such as e-filing solutions, online dispute resolution solutions, and online payment services. We are able to provide the majority of our software products through our SaaS model. The clients who choose this model typically do not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or make up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies. The contract terms for these arrangements range from one to 10 years but are typically contracted for initial periods of three to five years. The majority of our SaaS or hosting arrangements include additional professional services as well as maintenance and support services. In certain arrangements, the client may also acquire a license to the software. As part of our subscription-based services, we provide e-filing solutions that simplify the filing and management of court related documents for courts and law offices. Revenues for e-filing are included in subscription-based revenues and are derived from transaction fees and in some cases, fixed fee arrangements. Other transaction-based fees primarily relate to digital government services and online payment services, which are sometimes offered with the assistance of third-party vendors, and online dispute resolution solutions. 7 Software Services We provide a variety of professional services to clients who utilize our software products. Virtually all of our clients contract with us for installation, training, and data conversion services in connection with their implementation of Tyler s software solutions. The complete implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and testing. At the culmination of the implementation process, a data implementation team is generally onsite at the client s facility or available via remote video conferencing to ensure the smooth go-live with the new system. Implementation fees are charged separately to clients on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending on the contract. Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis, we provide extensive training services and programs related to our products and services. Training can be provided in our training centers, onsite at clients locations, at meetings and conferences, or remotely, and can be customized to meet clients requirements. The vast majority of our clients contract with us for training services, both to improve their employees proficiency and productivity and to fully utilize the functionality of our systems. Training services are generally billed on an hourly or daily basis, along with travel and other expenses. Maintenance and Support Following the implementation of our software systems, we provide ongoing software support services to assist our clients in operating the systems and to periodically update the software. Support is provided to clients over the phone or via the Web through help desks staffed by our client support representatives. For more complicated issues, our staff, with the clients' permission, can log on to clients systems remotely. We maintain our clients software largely through releases that contain improvements and incremental additions of features and functionality, along with updates necessary because of legislative or regulatory changes. Virtually all of our software clients contract with us for maintenance and support, which provides us with a significant source of recurring revenue. We generally provide maintenance and support for our on-premises clients under annual, or in some cases, multi-year contracts, with a typical fee based on a percentage of the software product s license fee. These fees can generally be increased on renewal and may also increase as new license fees increase. Maintenance and support fees are generally paid annually in advance. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew unless the client or Tyler gives notice of termination prior to expiration. Similar support is provided to our SaaS clients and is included in their subscription fees, which are classified as subscription-based revenues. Appraisal Services We are the nation s largest provider of property appraisal outsourcing services for local government taxing authorities. These services include: The physical inspecti