Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. [Reserved] 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 40 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 40 Item 9B. Other Information 41 Item 9C. D isclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 41 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 42 Item 11. Executive Compensation 42 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 42 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 42 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 43 Item 16. Form 10 - K Su mmary 45 Signatures 46 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Tyler Technologies, Inc. ( Tyler ) is a leading provider of integrated software and technology management solutions for the public sector. Our solutions empower local, state, and federal government entities to create smarter, safer, and stronger communities. We offer the broadest range of software solutions and services designed for every level of public sector government agency. Our solutions deliver mission-critical technology to support the essential functions of government, including public safety, justice, public health, taxation and budgeting, infrastructure and land use, outdoor recreation, utility and civic services, regulation, K-12 education, and social services. We provide both the back-office systems-of-record that serve the operational needs of specific government agencies, as well as platform technology solutions that are designed to integrate with our back-office solutions and be deployed and connected across many agencies. Examples of transformative platform technologies include our market-leading payments platform, data platform, low-code application development platform, and digital resident experience solutions. We maintain deep, long-term relationships with state and local government agencies, including dedicated state-level offices in the 28 states in which we have enterprise contracts. Our professional information technology ( IT ) services include cloud-based software deployment, data conversion, and training. We also provide continuing client support services to ensure product performance and reliability, providing us with long-term client relationships and a significant base of recurring revenue. MARKET OVERVIEW The federal, state, and local public sector market is one of the largest and most decentralized IT markets in the country, consisting of hundreds of federal agencies, all 50 states, approximately 3,000 counties, 36,000 cities and towns, and 12,600 school districts. This market is also comprised of approximately 40,000 special districts and other agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information management requirements. Today, government agencies play an essential role in all aspects of society, including providing protection and security, delivering public services, ensuring public health, effectively administrating public resources, developing and enforcing regulations, and maintaining engagement with the public. In an increasingly digital world, constituents expect more transparency, frictionless service, and better online experiences from public entities. As a result, government entities recognize the increasing value of information management systems and services to, among other things, improve transactional revenue collection, provide transparency and increased access to information, and streamline the delivery of services to their constituents. Government bodies recognize digital government is not just a modern convenience, but a requirement for good governance. From integrated public safety and justice information systems to systems that integrate tax, finance, infrastructure, and land use processes, many jurisdictions have benefited significantly from the implementation of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies or government offices to share data and provide a more comprehensive approach to information management. Agencies at all levels of government face challenges in attracting and retaining the staff necessary to support their IT operations. As a result, they seek to establish long-term relationships with reliable providers of high-quality IT products and services such as Tyler. Although governments often face budgetary constraints in their operations, their primary revenue sources are usually property, business, and sales tax revenue, as well as transactional fees and service charges, which historically tend to be relatively stable. Government agencies increasingly rely on digital payment solutions to streamline the collection and distribution of government funds. In addition, the acquisition of modern technology typically enables governments to operate more efficiently and securely and often provides a measurable return on investment that justifies the purchase of software and related services. Gartner, Inc., a leading information technology research and advisory company, estimates that: state and local government application and vertical specific software spending are expected to grow from $31.8 billion in 2024 to $46.9 billion in 2027; professional services and support segments of that market are expected to expand from $36.4 billion in 2024 to $46.8 billion in 2027; application and vertical specific software sales in the primary and secondary education segments of the market are expected to expand from $6.2 billion in 2024 to $8.6 billion in 2027 while related professional services and support are expected to grow from $5.7 billion in 2024 to $7.5 billion in 2027. For the national and international government markets, Gartner estimates that application and vertical specific software sales are expected to expand from $48.0 billion in 2024 to $71.9 billion in 2027, while related professional services and support are expected to grow from $71.6 billion in 2024 to $93.5 billion in 2027. 3 Tyler is a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. Tyler management believes we compete based on several key factors, including: The breadth, depth, and quality of our product and service offerings Deep industry expertise with proven implementation success Technological innovation Name recognition, reputation, and references Value and return-on-investment Financial strength and stability PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that addresses the information technology needs of cities, counties, states, schools, federal agencies, and other government entities. We design, develop, market, and support a broad range of software solutions to serve mission-critical back-office functions of the public sector. Many of our back-office software applications integrate with our transformative platform solutions, such as our unified payments platform, data and insights platform, and digital public engagement solutions that allow for real-time public access to a variety of information or that allow the public to transact business with governments online. Each of our core software solutions consists of several fully integrated applications. In some of the product areas, such as financial management and education and property appraisal and tax, we offer multiple solutions designed to meet the needs of different sized governments. A description of our primary suites of products and services follows: Platform Transformative Technology Solutions Our platform and transformative technology solutions create the foundation for government innovation and enhance our clients ability to connect with constituents, conduct business, collect and disburse funds, safeguard systems, and leverage data to its fullest. Many of these solutions are integrated into our products, while others can be leveraged as add-on solutions. Our platform transformative technology solutions include: Cybersecurity: Augments government agencies resources with access to advanced expertise for program design, 24/7 threat detection and response, customized employee training, vulnerability testing, and more. Data Insights: Allows agencies to transform data into insights about financial, operational, and strategic outcomes by making it easier to surface meaningful data for informing government decisions and citizens. Digital Solutions: Provides a seamless cross-department experience so that agencies can deliver a unified citizen experience and achieve better outcomes while helping workers and policymakers share, communicate, and leverage data more effectively. Payments: As the leading platform for public sector payment processes nearly half a billion transactions annually and covers the entire payments life cycle, including billing, presentment, merchant onboarding, collections, reconciliation, and disbursements. Platform Technologies: A low-code application development platform purpose-built for the public sector. Enables government workers to quickly build solutions and applications that suit their needs. Outdoor Recreation: Designed specifically for local, state, and federal outdoor agencies, our solutions encompass campsite reservations, activity registrations, licensing sales and renewals, and real-time data for conservation and park management. 4 Public Administration Solutions Our public administration solutions connect the dots between departments, agencies, municipalities, and states to deliver the core business functions of the public sector. By making it easier to manage the business side of the public sector, agencies can focus on delivering the resources and services required to make their community a place where people want to live. Our public administration solutions include: Civic Services: Business management and community development solutions manage permitting, enforcement, health and safety inspections, compliance, maintenance and work orders, 311 requests, and more. ERP: Integrates core financial applications with human resources, revenue management, tax billing, utilities, asset management, and payment processing. Property Recording: Manages all aspects of the property tax life cycle, including appraisal services, valuation, tax billing and collections, assessment administration, and land and official records. Regulatory: Permitting, licensing and regulatory management help local, state, and federal government agencies and departments of any size simplify every aspect of regulatory compliance. Courts Public Safety Solutions Our integrated courts and public safety solutions are used at the municipal, county, state, and federal levels to help courts, prosecutors, defenders, jails, sheriff s offices, police departments, and probation officers keep their communities safe. Our courts and public safety solutions include: Corrections: Connects courts, public safety, and supervision agencies to ensure safer and more efficient operations for correctional facilities. Courts Justice: Provides case management and shares data with all justice partners by connecting courts, prosecutors, public defenders, and the filing community. Public Safety: Integrated public safety solutions designed to comply with state and federal reporting mandates, provide real-time information and instant data sharing across jurisdictions, and promote intelligence-led responses so that help arrives faster and more prepared. K-12 Education Solutions Our integrated school solutions enable districts to operate as a single system across campuses and functions. By bringing data together and making it accessible as needed to administrators, teachers, students, bus drivers, and parents, we are able to improve everyone s ability to support the educational journey. Our K 12 Education solutions include: School ERP: Manages K-12 schools most essential business functions by integrating financial, budgeting, and procurement data. Our suite of human resource management tools helps schools efficiently manage payroll and employee information and hire and retain qualified teachers, staff, and substitutes. Student Transportation: Manages every aspect of the student transportation operation with integrated software and telematic hardware solutions to help ensure operational efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Health Human Services Solutions Our integrated solutions enable health and human service agencies to leverage data and optimize operations to better maintain the well-being of communities. Our health human services solutions include: Environmental Health: Streamlines the process of issuing permits, performing health inspections, running reports, and investigating complaints. Disability Benefits: Helps programs and agencies administer benefits and makes it easier to manage the complexity of services like medical cannabis regulation, veterans benefits, vocational rehabilitation, workers compensation, and more. Revenues We derive our revenues from four primary sources: Subscription-based services Maintenance and support Professional services Software licenses and royalties 5 Subscription-Based Services Subscriptions revenue consists of revenues derived from our SaaS arrangements and transactions-based fees. We are able to provide the majority of our software products through our SaaS model. The clients who choose this model typically do not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or make up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies. The contract terms for these arrangements range from one to ten years but are typically contracted for initial periods of three to five years. The majority of our SaaS or hosting arrangements include additional professional services as well as maintenance and support services. In certain arrangements, the client may also acquire a license to the software. Other sources of subscriptions revenue are derived from transaction-based fees primarily related to digital government services, online payment solutions, which are sometimes offered with the assistance of third-party vendors, and online dispute resolution solutions. Maintenance and Support Support is provided to clients over the phone or via the Web through help desks staffed by our client support representatives. For more complicated issues, our staff, with the clients' permission, can log on to clients systems remotely. We maintain our clients software largely through releases that contain improvements and incremental additions of features and functionality, along with updates necessary because of legislative or regulatory changes. Nearly all of our on-premises software clients contract with us for maintenance and support, which provides us with a significant source of recurring revenue. We generally provide maintenance and support for our on-premises clients under annual, or in some cases, multi-year contracts, with a typical fee based on a percentage of the software product s license fee. These fees can generally be increased on renewal and may also increase as new license fees increase. Maintenance and support fees are generally paid annually in advance. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew unless the client or Tyler gives notice of termination prior to expiration. Similar support is provided to our SaaS clients and is included in their subscription fees, which are classified as subscription-based revenue. Professional Services We provide a variety of professional services to clients who utilize our software products. Our clients contract with us for installation, training, and data conversion services in connection with their implementation of Tyler s software solutions, whether through a SaaS arrangement or on-premise software license. The complete implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and testing. At the culmination of the implementation process, a data implementation team is generally onsite at the client s facility or available via remote video conferencing to help ensure the smooth go-live with the new system. Implementation fees are charged separately to clients on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending on the contract. Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis, we provide extensive training services and programs related to our products and services. Training can be provided in our training centers, onsite at clients locations, at meetings and conferences, or remotely, and can be customized to meet clients requirements. The vast majority of our clients contract with us for training services, both to improve their employees proficiency and productivity and to fully utilize the functionality of our systems. Training services are generally billed on an hourly or daily basis, along with travel and other expenses. Software Licenses and Royalties Many of our software arrangements involve off-the-shelf software. We recognize the revenue allocable to off-the-shelf software licenses and specified upgrades at a point in time when control of the software license transfers to the customer, unless the software is not considered distinct. We consider "off-the-shelf" software to be distinct when it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying code, it can be used by the customer for the customer s purpose upon installation, and remaining services such as training are not considered highly interdependent or interrelated to the product's functionality. For arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or where professional services are otherwise not considered distinct, we recognize revenue over time by measuring progress-to-completion using labor hours incurred as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. Software license fees are billed in accordance with the contract terms. Typically, a majority of the fee is due when access to the software license is made available to the customer and the remainder of the fee due over a passage of time stipulated by the contract. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. We recognize royalty revenue when the sale occurs under the terms of our third-party royalty arrangements. Currently, our third-party royalties are recognized on an estimated basis and adjusted if needed, when we receive notice of amounts we are entitled to receive. We typically receive notice of royalty revenue we are entitled to and billed on a quarterly basis in the quarter immediately following the royalty reporting period and adjustments have not been significant. 6 STRATEGY Our objective is to grow our revenues and earnings organically, supplemented by focused strategic acquisitions. The key components of our business strategy are to: Provide high quality, value added products and services to our clients . We compete on the basis of, among other things, delivering to clients our deep domain expertise in government operations through the high value products and services in the market. We believe we have achieved a reputation as a premium product and service provider to the government market. Continue to expand our product and service offerings . While we already have what we believe to be the broadest line of software products for the public sector, we continually strive to upgrade our core software applications and expand our complementary product and service offerings to respond to technological advancements and the changing needs of our clients. We regularly add new products and services to our portfolio through internal product development as well as acquisitions. We believe that the addition of new features and applications enhances the market appeal of our core products. We have also broadened our offerings of consulting and business process reengineering services. Accelerate our move to the cloud . We have offered most of our core products in both an on-premises license model and a cloud-based subscription model for several years and have seen a steady increase in the percentage of new software clients choosing our cloud model in recent years. Beginning in late 2019, we moved our approach to sales from cloud-neutral to cloud-first, with an increasing preference to provide our solutions in the cloud. We are making significant investments in optimizing our products to be deployed efficiently in the public cloud and over a multi-year period are transitioning from hosting clients in Tyler s proprietary data centers to utilizing Amazon Web Services ( AWS ) for cloud hosting. Expand our client base . We seek to establish long-term relationships with new clients primarily through our sales and marketing efforts. While we currently have clients in all 50 states, Canada, the Caribbean, the United Kingdom, Australia, and other international locations, some of our solutions have not fully achieved nationwide geographic penetration. We intend to continue to expand into new geographic markets by adding sales staff and targeting marketing efforts by solutions in those areas. We also intend to continue to expand our customer base to include larger jurisdictions. While our traditional market focus has primarily been on small and mid-sized governments, our increased size and market presence, together with the technological advances and improved scalability of certain of our solutions, are allowing us to achieve increasing success in selling to larger clients. We also expect to expand our presence in international markets by leveraging our leadership position in the United States through the disciplined pursuit of selected opportunities in other countries. Expand our existing client relationships . Our existing customer base offers significant opportunities for additional sales of solutions and services that we currently offer, but that existing clients do not fully utilize. Add-on sales to existing clients typically involve lower sales and marketing expense than sales to new clients. In particular, since the acquisition of NIC, Inc.( NIC ) in April 2021, we have been successfully selling Tyler software products into NIC s client base and in turn providing NIC s payment services to Tyler s client base. We expect those opportunities to continue. Grow recurring revenues . We have a large recurring revenue base from subscription-based services and maintenance and support, which generated revenues of $1.6 billion, or 83% of total revenues, in 2023. We have historically experienced very low customer turnover (approximately 2% annually) and recurring revenues continue to grow as the installed customer base increases. Subscription-based revenues have been our fastest growing revenue category over the past five years, increasing from $296.4 million in 2019 to $1.2 billion in 2023. We monitor Annualized Recurring Revenue ( ARR ), which is calculated based on quarter-to-date end total recurring revenues multiplied by four. ARR was $1.61 billion and $1.50 billion as of December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. ARR increased 8% compared to the prior period primarily due to an increase in subscriptions revenue resulting from an ongoing shift toward SaaS arrangements. Maximize economies of scale and take advantage of financial leverage in our business . We seek to build and maintain a larger client base to create economies of scale, enabling us to provide value-added products and services to our clients while expanding our operating margins. In addition, we believe that we have a marketing and administrative infrastructure in place that can be leveraged to accommodate significant long-term growth without proportionately increasing sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Attract and retain highly qualified employees . We believe that the depth and quality of our management and staff is one of our significant strengths, and that the ability to retain such employees is crucial to our continued growth and success. We believe that our stable management team, financial strength and growth opportunities, as well as our leadership position in the public sector market, enhance our attractiveness as an employer for highly skilled employees. 7 Pursue strategic acquisitions . We selectively pursue strategic acquisitions that provide us with one or more of the following: New products and services to complement our existing offerings Entry into new markets related to the public sector New clients and/or geographic expansion Establish strategic alliances . We have a strategic collaboration agreement with Amazon Web Services ("AWS") for cloud hosting services, which brings together Tyler, the nation's largest software company exclusively focused on the public sector, and AWS, the broadest and deepest cloud platform. Specifically, the agreement with AWS provides the framework for development, training and collaboration in order to support next-generation applications that have the scalability, resiliency, and security AWS offers. AWS is assisting us in accelerating innovation and the development of strategic initiatives. These initiatives will bring the most advanced cloud-native services to Tyler clients, to help improve the flow of information and provide a better experience for state, local, and federal governments. SALES, MARKETING AND CLIENTS We market our products and services primarily through direct sales and marketing personnel located throughout the United States. Other in-house sales staff focus on add-on sales, professional services and support. For certain products we also utilize a partner network for both sales and professional services, primarily in the state and federal markets. Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other government offices or departments within a county or municipality, referrals from other local governments, relationships established between sales representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows, direct mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with us. We are active in numerous national, state, county, and local government associations and participate in annual meetings, trade shows, and educational events. Clients consist primarily of federal, state, county and municipal agencies, school districts and other local government offices. In counties, clients include the auditor, treasurer, tax assessor/collector, county clerk, district clerk, county and district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and county appraiser. At municipal government sites, clients include directors from various departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works, code enforcement, personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court and police. At the state and federal levels, clients include Chief Information Officers and agency heads. Contracts for software products and services are generally implemented over periods of three months to one year, although some complex implementations may span multiple years, with annually renewing maintenance and support update agreements thereafter. COMPETITION We compete with numerous local, regional, and national firms that provide or offer some or many of the same solutions and services that we provide. Many of these competitors are smaller companies that may offer less expensive solutions than ours. Many of these firms operate within a specific geographic area and / or in a narrow product or service niche. We also compete with national firms, some of which have greater financial and technical resources than we do, including Oracle Corporation, Infor, SAP AG, Workday, Inc., CentralSquare Technologies, Thomson Reuters Corporation, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Axon Enterprise, Inc., and Constellation Software, Inc. In addition, we sometimes compete with consulting and systems integration firms, which develop custom systems, primarily for larger governments. We also occasionally compete with central internal information service departments of governments, which requires us to persuade the end-user department to discontinue service by its own personnel and outsource the service to us. We compete on a variety of factors, including price, service, name recognition, reputation, technological capabilities, and the ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate the individual requirements of the client. Our ability to offer an integrated system of applications for several offices or departments is often a competitive advantage. Governmental units often are required to seek competitive proposals through a request for proposal process and some prospective clients use consultants to assist them with the proposal and vendor selection process. SUPPLIERS Substantially all of the computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software, office automation software, and other equipment necessary for the implementation and provision of our software systems and services are presently available from several third-party sources. Hardware is purchased on original equipment manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. We have not experienced any significant supply problems. 8 BACKLOG At December 31, 2023, our revenue backlog was