Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 45 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 45 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 47 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6. [Reserved] 48 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 48 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 68 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 70 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 134 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 134 Item 9B. Other Information 135 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 135 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 135 Item 11. Executive Compensation 135 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 135 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 135 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 135 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 135 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 136 Exhibit Index 137 Signatures 141 1 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipate, believe, contemplate, continue, could, estimate, expect, hope, intend, may, might, objective, ongoing, plan, potential, predict, project, should, target, will, or would or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to successfully defend litigation and government proceedings brought against us, including with respect to our relationship with drivers and couriers, and the potential impact on our business operations and financial performance if we are not successful; our ability to successfully compete in highly competitive markets; our expectations regarding financial performance, including but not limited to revenue, achieving or maintaining profitability, ability to generate or maintain positive Adjusted EBITDA or Free Cash Flow, expenses, and other results of operations; our expectations regarding future operating performance, including but not limited to our expectations regarding future Monthly Active Platform Consumers ( MAPCs ), Trips, Gross Bookings, and Revenue Margin (defined as revenue as a percentage of Gross Bookings); our expectations regarding our competitors use of incentives and promotions, our competitors ability to raise capital, and the effects of such incentives and promotions on our growth and results of operations; our anticipated investments in new products and offerings, and the effect of these investments on our results of operations; our anticipated capital expenditures and our estimates regarding our capital requirements; our ability to close and integrate acquisitions into our operations; anticipated technology trends and developments and our ability to address those trends and developments with our products and offerings; the size of our addressable markets, market share, category positions, and market trends, including our ability to grow our business in the countries we have identified as expansion markets; the safety, affordability, and convenience of our platform and our offerings; our ability to identify, recruit, and retain skilled personnel, including key members of senior management; our ability to effectively manage our growth and maintain and improve our corporate culture; our expected growth in the number of platform users, and our ability to promote our brand and attract and retain platform users; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property rights; our ability to introduce new products and offerings and enhance existing products and offerings; our ability to successfully enter into new geographies, expand our presence in countries in which we are limited by regulatory restrictions, and manage our international expansion; our ability to successfully renew licenses to operate our business in certain jurisdictions; our ability to successfully respond to global economic conditions, including rising inflation and interest rates; the availability of capital to grow our business; volatility in the business or stock price of our minority-owned entities; our ability to meet the requirements of our existing debt and draw on our line of credit; our ability to prevent disturbances, including cybersecurity incidents, to our information technology systems; our ability to comply with existing, modified, or new laws and regulations applying to our business; the impact of contagious disease or outbreaks of viruses, disease or pandemics on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows; and our ability to implement, maintain, and improve our internal control over financial reporting. 2 Actual events or results may differ from those expressed in forward-looking statements. As such, you should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, operating results, prospects, strategy, and financial needs. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe that such information provides a reasonable basis for these statements, such information may be limited or incomplete. Our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on these statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information, actual results, revised expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Uber Technologies, Inc. ( Uber, we, our, or us ) is a technology platform that uses a massive network, leading technology, operational excellence and product expertise to power movement from point A to point B. We develop and operate proprietary technology applications supporting a variety of offerings on our platform ( platform(s) or Platform(s) ). We connect consumers ( Rider(s) ) with independent providers of ride services ( Mobility Driver(s) ) for ridesharing services, and connect Riders and other consumers ( Eater(s) ) with restaurants, grocers and other stores (collectively, Merchants ) with delivery service providers ( Couriers ) for meal preparation, grocery and other delivery services. Riders and Eaters are collectively referred to as end-user(s) or consumer(s). Mobility Drivers and Couriers are collectively referred to as Driver(s). We also connect consumers with public transportation networks. We use this same network, technology, operational excellence and product expertise to connect shippers ( Shipper(s) ) with carriers ( Carrier(s) ) in the freight industry by providing Carriers with the ability to book a shipment, transportation management and other logistics services. Uber is also developing technologies designed to provide new solutions to solve everyday problems. Our technology is available in approximately 70 countries around the world, principally in the United States ( U.S. ) and Canada, Latin America, Europe (excluding Russia), the Middle East, Africa, and Asia (excluding China and Southeast Asia). Our Segments As of December 31, 2023, we had three operating and reportable segments: Mobility, Delivery and Freight. Mobility, Delivery and Freight platform offerings each address large, fragmented markets. Mobility Our Mobility offering connects consumers with a wide range of transportation modalities, such as ridesharing, carsharing, micromobility, rentals, public transit, taxis, and more helping customers go almost anywhere they need. We believe our global leadership position and the vast amount of marketplace data that comes along with it means that we have the best technical and data platform to innovate faster than other companies with similar products. We believe our scale and global availability allows our Mobility segment to offer better consumer experiences to riders in a variety of vehicle types, providing consumers with higher reliability and Drivers with better earnings opportunities. Mobility also includes activity related to our financial partnerships products and advertising. We also participate in certain regions through our minority-owned entities. Delivery Our Delivery offering allows consumers to search for and discover the best of local commerce from restaurants to grocery, alcohol, convenience and other retailers order a meal or other items, and either pick-up at the restaurant or have it delivered. We refer to the grocery, alcohol, convenience, and retail categories collectively as Grocery Retail. After launching our Delivery app, Uber Eats, over eight years ago, we believe our Delivery offering increases consumer engagement with the Uber platform overall, which in turn results in broader reach for our Merchants who can attract Uber Eats consumers from Uber without increasing their own costs. For Drivers, we believe the Delivery offering leverages, and has expanded, our earner base by increasing utilization and earnings across the network. We also believe it also attracts new Drivers to the platform who do not have access to Mobility-qualified vehicles. Over the last several years, our Delivery business has expanded to include Uber Direct, our white-label Delivery-as-a-Service offering to retailers and restaurants around the world, as well as advertising opportunities. Freight We believe that Freight is revolutionizing the logistics industry. Freight powers a managed transportation and logistics network and connects Shippers and Carriers in a digital marketplace to move shipments while leveraging our proprietary technology, brand awareness, and experience revolutionizing industries. Freight provides an on-demand platform to automate and accelerate logistics transactions end-to-end while providing visibility and control of logistics networks. Freight connects Carriers with Shippers shipments available on our platform, and gives Carriers upfront, transparent pricing and the ability to book a shipment with the touch of a button. Freight serves Shippers ranging from small- and medium-sized businesses to global enterprises. By leveraging logistics solutions expertise and value-add solutions, Freight enables Shippers to create and tender shipments, secure capacity on demand with real-time pricing, and track those shipments from pickup to delivery. Freight operations are principally based in North America and Europe. We believe that all of these factors represent significant efficiency improvements over traditional transportation management and freight brokerage providers. Platform Synergies Our Platform The foundation of our platform is our massive network, leading technology, operational excellence, and product expertise. 4 Together, these elements power movement from point A to point B. Massive Network Our massive, efficient, and intelligent network consists of tens of millions of Drivers, consumers, Merchants, Shippers and Carriers, as well as underlying data, technology, and shared infrastructure. Our network becomes smarter with every trip. In more than 10,000 cities around the world (as of December 31, 2023), our network powers movement at the touch of a button for millions, and we hope eventually billions, of people. Leading Technology We have built proprietary marketplace, routing, and payments technologies. Marketplace technologies are the core of our deep technology advantage and include demand prediction, matching and dispatching, and pricing technologies. Our technologies make it extremely efficient to launch new businesses and operationalize existing ones. Operational Excellence Our regional on-the-ground operations teams use their extensive market-specific knowledge to rapidly launch and scale products in cities, support Drivers, consumers, Merchants, Shippers, and Carriers, and build and enhance relationships with cities and regulators. Product Expertise Our products are built with the expertise that allows us to set the standard for powering movement on-demand, provide platform users with a contextual, intuitive interface, continually evolve features and functionality, and deliver safety and trust. We intend to continue to invest in new platform offerings that we believe will further strengthen our platform and existing offerings. We believe that all of these synergies serve the customer experience, enabling us to attract new platform users and to deepen engagement with existing platform users. Both of these dynamics grow our network scale and liquidity, which further increases the value of our platform-to-platform users. For example, Delivery attracts new consumers to our network for the three months ended December 31, 2023, over 60% of first-time Delivery consumers were new to our platform. Additionally, for the three months ended December 31, 2023, consumers who used both Mobility and Delivery generated 10.5 Trips per month on average, compared to 5.0 Trips per month on average for consumers who used a single offering in cities where both Mobility and Delivery were offered. We believe that these trends will improve as we further leverage the power of our platform. With our platform, we are making it even easier for our consumers to unlock convenience. In 2020, we rolled out our Super App view on iOS and Android, which combines our multiple offerings into a single app and is designed to remove friction for our consumers. During November 2021, we launched Uber One in the United States as our single cross-platform membership program that brings together the best of Uber. Uber One members have access to discounts, special pricing, priority service, and exclusive perks across our rides, delivery and grocery offerings. Since then, we have expanded Uber One to approximately 25 countries. Our Eats Pass membership program continues to remain available in select cities as a subscription offering. Our membership programs are designed to make utilizing our suite of products a seamless and rewarding experience for our consumers. We exited 2023 with 19 million members for our Uber One, Eats Pass and Rides Pass membership programs. We are also utilizing our data and scale to offer marketplace-centric advertising to connect merchants and brands with our platform network and unlocking cross-platform advertising formats. During October 2022, we officially launched Uber s advertising division and introduced Uber Journey Ads, an engaging way for brands to connect with consumers throughout the entire ride process. We now offer a model that enables brands to partner with Uber on a variety of advertising options on the Uber and Uber Eats apps, and beyond, while connecting with consumers in brand-safe and captivating ways. We also provide comprehensive reporting and analysis, which helps brands fine-tune their understanding of consumers and create more impactful campaigns as they connect with consumers at relevant points throughout their journeys and transactions. During the fourth quarter of 2023, active advertising merchants exceeded 550,000. We believe that our advertising further strengthens the power of our platform and will continue to do so as we onboard more advertisers. Competitive Environment We compete on a global basis in highly fragmented markets. We face significant competition in each of the mobility and delivery industries globally and in the logistics industry in the United States and Canada from existing, well-established, and low-cost alternatives, and in the future we expect to face competition from new market entrants given the low barriers to entry that characterize these industries. As we and our competitors introduce new products and offerings, and as existing products evolve, we expect to become subject to additional competition. While we work to expand globally and introduce new products and offerings across a range of industries, many of our competitors remain focused on a limited number of products or on a narrow geographic scope, allowing them to develop specialized expertise and employ resources in a more targeted manner than we do. The competition we face in each of our offerings includes: Mobility . Our Mobility offering competes with personal vehicle ownership and usage, which accounts for the majority of passenger miles in the markets that we serve, and traditional transportation services, including taxicab companies and taxi-hailing services, livery and other car services. In addition, public transportation can be a superior substitute to our Mobility offering and in many cases, offers a faster and lower-cost travel option in many cities. We also compete with other 5 ridesharing companies, including certain of our minority-owned entities, for Drivers and Riders, including Lyft, Ola, Didi, and Bolt. Delivery . Our Delivery offering competes with numerous companies in the meal, grocery and other delivery space in various regions for drivers, consumers, and merchants, including Amazon, Deliveroo, Delivery Hero, DoorDash, iFood, Instacart, Just Eat Takeaway, and Rappi. Our Delivery offering also competes with restaurants, including those that offer their own delivery and/or take-away, meal kit delivery services, grocery delivery services, and traditional grocers. Freight . Our Freight offering competes with global and North American freight brokers and managed transportation providers such as C.H. Robinson, Total Quality Logistics, XPO Logistics, Echo Global Logistics, Coyote, Transfix, DHL, and NEXT Trucking. Government Regulation We operate in a particularly complex legal and regulatory environment. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations, including those related to Internet activities, privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, intellectual property, competition, consumer protection, payments, labor and employment, transportation services, transportation network companies, licensing regulations and taxation. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be interpreted, applied, created, or amended, in a manner that could harm our business. Examples of certain laws and regulations we are subject to are described below. For further discussion of risks relating to government regulation, see our risk factors, including the risk factors in the section titled Legal and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our platform, and in particular our Mobility products, are subject to differing, and sometimes conflicting, laws, rules, and regulations in the numerous jurisdictions in which we operate. A large number of proposals are before various national, regional, and local legislative bodies and regulatory entities, both within the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, regarding issues related to our business model. In the United States, many state and local laws, rules, and regulations impose legal restrictions and other requirements on operating our Mobility products, including licensing, insurance, screening, and background check requirements. Outside of the United States, certain jurisdictions have adopted similar laws, rules, and regulations while other jurisdictions have not adopted any laws, rules, and regulations which govern our Mobility business. Further, certain jurisdictions, including Argentina, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Spain, six countries that we have identified as expansion markets, have adopted laws, rules, and regulations banning certain ridesharing products or imposing extensive operational restrictions. This uncertainty and fragmented regulatory environment creates significant complexities for our business and operating model. In addition, our Delivery and Freight products are also subject to laws, regulations and standards that govern the transportation of food, alcohol and other goods. Substantially all states in the United States and numerous municipalities in the United States and around the world have adopted Transportation Network Company ( TNC ) regulations. These regulations generally focus on companies that operate websites or mobile apps that connect individual drivers with their own vehicles to passengers willing to pay to be driven to their destinations. These regulations often require TNCs to comply with rules regarding, among other things, background checks, vehicle inspections, accessible vehicles, driver and consumer safety, insurance, driver training, driver conduct, and other similar matters. In addition, many jurisdictions have adopted regulations that apply to how we classify the Drivers who use our platform. For example, California s Assembly Bill 5 ( AB5 ), which went into effect in January 2020, codified a test to determine whether a worker is an employee under California law. The California Attorney General, in conjunction with the city attorneys for San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, filed a complaint under AB5, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and sought an injunction and monetary damages related to the alleged competitive advantage caused by the alleged misclassification of drivers. Although the Court issued a preliminary injunction enjoining Uber and Lyft from classifying drivers as independent contractors during the pendency of the lawsuit, the parties were granted a stipulation to dissolve the injunction in April 2021. In November 2020, California voters approved Proposition 22, a California state ballot initiative that provides a framework for drivers that use platforms like ours for independent work. Proposition 22 went into effect in December 2020 and as a result of the passage of Proposition 22, Drivers are able to maintain their status as independent contractors under California law, and we and our competitors are required to comply with the provisions of Proposition 22. In addition, many jurisdictions have municipal bodies that adopted and will adopt regulations that govern our business. This uncertainty and fragmented regulatory environment creates significant complexities for our business and operating model. As we continue to expand our offerings, we may be subject to additional regulations separate from those that apply to our existing products. See the section titled Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A and Note 14 Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Data Privacy and Protection Our technology platform, and the user data we collect and process to run our business, are an integral part of our business model and, as a result, our compliance with laws dealing with the collection and processing of personal data is core to our strategy to improve platform user experience and build trust. Regulators around the world have adopted or proposed requirements regarding the collection, use, transfer, security, storage, destruction, and other processing of personal data, and these laws are increasing in number, enforcement, fines, and other penalties. Two examples of such regulations that have significant implications for our business are the 6 European Union s General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR ), a law which went into effect in May 2018 and implemented more stringent requirements for processing personal data relating to individuals in the EU, and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA ), which went into effect in January 2020 and established new consumer rights and data privacy and protection requirements for covered businesses. U.S. state, city, federal, and foreign regulators are expected to continue proposing and adopting significant laws impacting the processing of personal data and other data relating to individuals, such as the California Privacy Rights Act ( CPRA ) passed in California (effective in January 2023), and India s Digital Personal Data Protection Act 2023. Payments and Financial Services Most jurisdictions in which we operate have laws that govern payment and financial services activities. For example, our subsidiary in the Netherlands, Uber Payments B.V., is registered and authorized as an electronic money institution in support of certain payment activities in the European Economic Area (the EEA ). Regulators in certain additional jurisdictions may determine that certain aspects of our business are subject to these laws and could require us to obtain licenses to continue to operate in such jurisdictions. In addition, laws related to money transmission and online payments are evolving, and changes in such laws could affect our ability to provide payment processing on our platform. We are continuing to evaluate our options for seeking further licenses and approvals in several other jurisdictions to optimize payment solutions and support future growth of our business. Antitrust Competition authorities closely scrutinize us under U.S. and foreign antitrust and competition laws. An increasing number of governments are enforcing competition laws and are doing so with increased scrutiny, including governments in large markets such as the EU, the United States, Brazil, and India, particularly surrounding issues of pricing parity, price-fixing, and abuse of market power. In addition, governmental agencies and regulators may, among other things, prohibit future acquisitions, divestitures, or combinations we plan to make, impose significant fines or penalties, require divestiture of certain of our assets, or impose other restrictions that limit or require us to modify our operations, including limitations on our contractual relationships with platform users or restrictions on our pricing models. Intellectual Property We believe that our intellectual property is essential to our business and affords us a competitive advantage in the markets in which we operate. Our intellectual property includes the content of our website, mobile applications, registered domain names, software code, firmware, hardware and hardware designs, registered and unregistered trademarks, trademark applications, copyrights, trade secrets, inventions (whether or not patentable), patents, and patent applications. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret laws, contractual provisions, end-user policies, and disclosure restrictions. Upon discovery of potential infringement of our intellectual property, we assess and when necessary, take action to protect our rights as appropriate. We also enter into confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information in a commercially prudent manner. Research and Development Because the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances, our ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon our ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive new offerings and technologies. We continue to develop new technologies to enhance existing offerings and services, and to expand the range of our offerings through research and development ( R D ) and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Seasonality Mobility We typically expect to experience seasonal impacts to our operating results as we generate higher Gross Bookings in our fourth quarter compared to other quarters du