Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6. [Reserved] 48 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 48 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 69 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 70 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 146 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 147 Item 9B. Other Information 147 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 147 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 147 Item 11. Executive Compensation 147 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 148 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 148 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 148 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 148 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 148 Exhibit Index 149 Signatures 152 1 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipate, believe, contemplate, continue, could, estimate, expect, hope, intend, may, might, objective, ongoing, plan, potential, predict, project, should, target, will, or would or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: the impacts of COVID-19 or other future pandemics on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows; our ability to successfully defend litigation and government proceedings brought against us, including with respect to our relationship with drivers and couriers, and the potential impact on our business operations and financial performance if we are not successful; our ability to successfully compete in highly competitive markets; our ability to effectively manage our growth and maintain and improve our corporate culture; our expectations regarding financial performance, including but not limited to revenue, potential profitability and the timing thereof, ability to generate positive Adjusted EBITDA, expenses, and other results of operations; our expectations regarding future operating performance, including but not limited to our expectations regarding future Monthly Active Platform Consumers ( MAPCs ), Trips, Gross Bookings, and Take Rate; our expectations regarding our competitors use of incentives and promotions, our competitors ability to raise capital, and the effects of such incentives and promotions on our growth and results of operations; our anticipated investments in new products and offerings, and the effect of these investments on our results of operations; our anticipated capital expenditures and our estimates regarding our capital requirements; our ability to close and integrate acquisitions into our operations; anticipated technology trends and developments and our ability to address those trends and developments with our products and offerings; the size of our addressable markets, market share, category positions, and market trends, including our ability to grow our business in the countries we have identified as expansion markets; the safety, affordability, and convenience of our platform and our offerings; our ability to identify, recruit, and retain skilled personnel, including key members of senior management; our expected growth in the number of platform users, and our ability to promote our brand and attract and retain platform users; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property rights; our ability to introduce new products and offerings and enhance existing products and offerings; our ability to successfully enter into new geographies, expand our presence in countries in which we are limited by regulatory restrictions, and manage our international expansion; our ability to successfully renew licenses to operate our business in certain jurisdictions; the availability of capital to grow our business; volatility in the business or stock price of our minority-owned affiliates; our ability to meet the requirements of our existing debt and draw on our line of credit; our ability to prevent and respond to disturbances to our information technology systems; our ability to comply with existing, modified, or new laws and regulations applying to our business; our ability to implement, maintain, and improve our internal control over financial reporting; and our ability to realize our climate change, net zero climate emissions and net zero company commitments and in their contemplated timeframes Actual events or results may differ from those expressed in forward-looking statements. As such, you should not rely on forward- 2 looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, operating results, prospects, strategy, and financial needs. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe that such information provides a reasonable basis for these statements, such information may be limited or incomplete. Our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on these statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information, actual results, revised expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Uber Technologies, Inc. ( Uber, we, our, or us ) is a technology platform that uses a massive network, leading technology, operational excellence and product expertise to power movement from point A to point B. We develop and operate proprietary technology applications supporting a variety of offerings on our platform ( platform(s) or Platform(s) ). We connect consumers ( Rider(s) ) with independent providers of ride services ( Mobility Driver(s) ) for ridesharing services, and connect Riders and other consumers ( Eater(s) ) with restaurants, grocers and other stores (collectively, Merchants ) with delivery service providers ( Couriers ) for meal preparation, grocery and other delivery services. Riders and Eaters are collectively referred to as end-user(s) or consumer(s). Mobility Drivers and Couriers are collectively referred to as Driver(s). We also connect consumers with public transportation networks. We use this same network, technology, operational excellence and product expertise to connect shippers with carriers in the freight industry. Our technology is available in approximately 72 countries around the world, principally in the United States ( U.S. ) and Canada, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Asia (excluding China and Southeast Asia). Our Segments As of December 31, 2021, we had three operating and reportable segments: Mobility, Delivery and Freight. Mobility, Delivery and Freight platform offerings each address large, fragmented markets. Mobility Mobility refers to products that connect consumers with Mobility Drivers who provide rides in a variety of vehicles, such as cars, auto rickshaws, motorbikes, minibuses, or taxis. Mobility also includes activity related to our financial partnerships offerings. We believe that our ridesharing category position is a key indicator of our progress towards our massive market opportunity. We calculate our ridesharing category position based on the best available data within a given region. For example, in most cases we divide our Mobility Gross Bookings by our estimates of total ridesharing Gross Bookings generated by us and other companies with similar ridesharing products. We estimate our total ridesharing Gross Bookings in a given region by utilizing internal source data, including historical trip, bookings, product mix, and fare information, and external source data provided by publicly available information and marketing analytics firms. Based on these estimates, we believe we have a leading ridesharing category position in every major region of the world where we operate. We also participate in certain regions through our minority-owned affiliates. At the time of entering into such transactions, we believed based on our internal estimates using the information then available to us that each of Didi, Grab and Yandex.Taxi, on a pro forma basis, had the leading ridesharing category position in its respective market. Delivery Our Delivery offering allows consumers to search for and discover local restaurants, order a meal, and either pick-up at the restaurant or have the meal delivered and, in certain markets, Delivery also includes offerings for grocery, alcohol and convenience store delivery as well as select other goods. We launched our Delivery app over six years ago. We believe that Delivery not only leverages, but also increases, the supply of Drivers on our network. For example, Delivery enables Mobility Drivers to increase their utilization and earnings by accessing additional demand for trips during non-peak Mobility times. Delivery also expands the pool of Drivers by enabling people who are not Mobility Drivers or who do not have access to Mobility-qualified vehicles to provide delivery services on our platform. In addition to benefiting Drivers and consumers, Delivery provides Merchants with an instant mobile presence and efficient delivery capability, which we believe generates incremental demand and improves margins for Merchants by enabling them to serve more consumers without increasing their existing front-of-house expenses. During 2021, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 45% ownership interest in Cornershop Cayman ( Cornershop ) in an all-stock transaction. The acquisition was accounted for as an equity transaction, as we previously controlled and consolidated Cornershop. We also completed the acquisition of The Drizly Group, Inc. ( Drizly ), allowing us to expand alcohol offerings in our Delivery business with Drizly s leading platform, technology, scale, and expertise. The acquisition of Drizly has been accounted for as a business combination. For additional information, see Note 18 Business Combinations included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Freight We believe that Freight is revolutionizing the logistics industry. Freight leverages our proprietary technology, brand awareness, and experience revolutionizing industries to connect carriers with shippers on our platform, and gives carriers upfront, transparent pricing and the ability to book a shipment. The freight industry is highly fragmented and deeply inefficient. It can take several hours, sometimes days, for shippers to find a truck and driver for shipments, with most of the process conducted over the phone or by fax. Procurement is highly fragmented, with traditional players relying on local or regional offices to book shipments. It is equally difficult for carriers to find and book the shipments that work for their businesses, spending hours on the phone negotiating pricing and terms. These inefficiencies adversely impact both shippers and carriers, and contribute to the number of non-revenue or dead-head miles, 4 which are miles driven by carriers between shipments. Freight greatly reduces friction in the logistics industry by providing an on-demand platform to automate and accelerate logistics transactions end-to-end. Freight connects carriers with shippers available on our platform, and gives carriers upfront, transparent pricing and the ability to book a shipment with the touch of a button. We serve shippers ranging from small- and medium-sized businesses to global enterprises by enabling them to create and tender shipments with a few clicks, secure capacity on demand with upfront pricing, and track those shipments in real-time from pickup to delivery. We believe that all of these factors represent significant efficiency improvements over traditional freight brokerage providers. During 2021, we completed the acquisition of Tupelo Parent, Inc. ( Transplace ) in an all-cash transaction, allowing us to expand our Uber Freight business through Transplace s expertise in transportation management. The acquisition of Transplace has been accounted for as a business combination. For additional information, see Note 18 Business Combinations included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Platform Synergies Our Platform The foundation of our platform is our massive network, leading technology, operational excellence, and product expertise. Together, these elements power movement from point A to point B. Massive Network Our massive, efficient, and intelligent network consists of tens of millions of Drivers, consumers, Merchants, shippers and carriers, as well as underlying data, technology, and shared infrastructure. Our network becomes smarter with every trip. In approximately 10,500 cities around the world (as of January 1, 2022), our network powers movement at the touch of a button for millions, and we hope eventually billions, of people. Leading Technology We have built proprietary marketplace, routing, and payments technologies. Marketplace technologies are the core of our deep technology advantage and include demand prediction, matching and dispatching, and pricing technologies. Our technologies make it extremely efficient to launch new businesses and operationalize existing ones. Operational Excellence Our regional on-the-ground operations teams use their extensive market-specific knowledge to rapidly launch and scale products in cities, support Drivers, consumers, Merchants, shippers, and carriers, and build and enhance relationships with cities and regulators. Product Expertise Our products are built with the expertise that allows us to set the standard for powering movement on-demand, provide platform users with a contextual, intuitive interface, continually evolve features and functionality, and deliver safety and trust. We intend to continue to invest in new platform offerings that we believe will further strengthen our platform and existing offerings. We believe that all of these synergies serve the customer experience, enabling us to attract new platform users and to deepen engagement with existing platform users. Both of these dynamics grow our network scale and liquidity, which further increases the value of our platform to platform users. For example, Delivery attracts new consumers to our network for the three months ended December 31, 2021, over 60% of first-time Delivery consumers were new to our platform. Additionally, for the three months ended December 31, 2021, consumers who used both Mobility and Delivery generated 12.6 Trips per month on average, compared to 5.0 Trips per month on average for consumers who used a single offering in cities where both Mobility and Delivery were offered. We believe that these trends will improve as we further leverage the power of our platform. With our platform, we are making it even easier for our consumers to unlock convenience. During November 2021, we launched Uber One in the United States as our single cross-platform membership program that brings together the best of Uber. Uber One members have access to discounts, special pricing, priority service, and exclusive perks across our rides, delivery and grocery offerings. Our Uber Pass and Eats Pass membership programs continue to remain available in select cities as a subscription offering. Our membership programs are designed to make utilizing our suite of products a seamless and rewarding experience for our consumers. We exited 2021 with over 6 million members for our Uber One, Uber Pass, Eats Pass and Rides Pass membership programs. In 2020, we rolled out our Super App view on iOS and Android, which combines our multiple offerings into a single app and is designed to remove friction for our consumers. We are also utilizing our data and scale to offer marketplace-centric advertising to connect merchants and brands with our platform network and unlocking cross-platform advertising formats. During the fourth quarter of 2021, active advertising merchants grew to over 170,000. Competitive Environment We compete on a global basis in highly fragmented markets. We face significant competition in each of the mobility and delivery industries globally and in the logistics industry in the United States and Canada from existing, well-established, and low-cost alternatives, and in the future we expect to face competition from new market entrants given the low barriers to entry that characterize 5 these industries. As we and our competitors introduce new products and offerings, and as existing products evolve, we expect to become subject to additional competition. While we work to expand globally and introduce new products and offerings across a range of industries, many of our competitors remain focused on a limited number of products or on a narrow geographic scope, allowing them to develop specialized expertise and employ resources in a more targeted manner than we do. The competition we face in each of our offerings includes: Mobility . Our Mobility offering competes with personal vehicle ownership and usage, which accounts for the majority of passenger miles in the markets that we serve, and traditional transportation services, including taxicab companies and taxi-hailing services, livery and other car services. In addition, public transportation can be a superior substitute to our Mobility offering and in many cases, offers a faster and lower-cost travel option in many cities. We also compete with other ridesharing companies, including certain of our minority-owned affiliates, for Drivers and riders, including Lyft, Ola, Didi, Grab, Bolt, and our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. Delivery . Our Delivery offering competes with numerous companies in the meal, grocery and other delivery space in various regions for drivers, consumers, and merchants, including DoorDash, Deliveroo, Glovo, Instacart, Gopuff, Rappi, iFood, Delivery Hero, Just Eat Takeaway, and Amazon. Our Delivery offering also competes with restaurants, meal kit delivery services, grocery delivery services, and traditional grocers. Freight . Our Freight offering competes with global and North American freight brokers such as C.H. Robinson, Total Quality Logistics, XPO Logistics, Convoy, Echo Global Logistics, Coyote, Transfix, DHL, and NEXT Trucking. Government Regulation We operate in a particularly complex legal and regulatory environment. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations, including those related to Internet activities, privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, intellectual property, competition, consumer protection, payments, labor and employment, transportation services, transportation network companies, licensing regulations and taxation. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be interpreted, applied, created, or amended, in a manner that could harm our business. Examples of certain laws and regulations we are subject to are described below. Mobility Our platform, and in particular our Mobility products, are subject to differing, and sometimes conflicting, laws, rules, and regulations in the numerous jurisdictions in which we operate. A large number of proposals are before various national, regional, and local legislative bodies and regulatory entities, both within the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, regarding issues related to our business model. In the United States, many state and local laws, rules, and regulations impose legal restrictions and other requirements on operating our Mobility products, including licensing, insurance, screening, and background check requirements. Outside of the United States, certain jurisdictions have adopted similar laws, rules, and regulations while other jurisdictions have not adopted any laws, rules, and regulations which govern our Mobility business. Further, certain jurisdictions, including Argentina, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Spain, six countries that we have identified as expansion markets, have adopted laws, rules, and regulations banning certain ridesharing products or imposing extensive operational restrictions. This uncertainty and fragmented regulatory environment creates significant complexities for our business and operating model. Substantially all states in the United States and numerous municipalities in the United States and around the world have adopted Transportation Network Company ( TNC ) regulations. These regulations generally focus on companies that operate websites or mobile apps that connect individual drivers with their own vehicles to passengers willing to pay to be driven to their destinations. These regulations often require TNCs to comply with rules regarding, among other things, background checks, vehicle inspections, accessible vehicles, driver and consumer safety, insurance, driver training, driver conduct, and other similar matters. In addition, many jurisdictions have adopted regulations that apply to how we classify the Drivers who use our platform. For example, California s Assembly Bill 5 ( AB5 ), which went into effect in January 2020, codified a test to determine whether a worker is an employee under California law. The California Attorney General, in conjunction with the city attorneys for San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, filed a complaint under AB5, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and sought an injunction and monetary damages related to the alleged competitive advantage caused by the alleged misclassification of drivers. Although the Court issued a preliminary injunction enjoining Uber and Lyft from classifying drivers as independent contractors during the pendency of the lawsuit, the parties were granted a stipulation to dissolve the injunction in April 2021. In November 2020, California voters approved Proposition 22, a California state ballot initiative that provides a framework for drivers that use platforms like ours for independent work. Proposition 22 went into effect in December 2020 and we expect that Drivers will be able to maintain their status as independent contractors under California law and that we and our competitors will be required to comply with the provisions of Proposition 22. See the section titled Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A and Note 15 Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 In addition, many jurisdictions have municipal bodies that adopted and will adopt regulations that govern our business. For example: In London, Transport for London ( TfL ) scrutinizes our business on an on-going basis and we are subject to license reviews at renewal. In November 2019, TfL declined to issue us a license, finding that we were not fit and proper, including with respect to confidence in our change and release management processes. We successfully appealed and in September 2020, Westminster Magistrates Court granted us an 18 month operating license on largely the same conditions as our previous license, finding us a fit and proper person. Since April 2019, Mexico City s Secretar a de Movilidad passed several amendments to existing ridesharing regulations implementing certain operational requirements, including a prohibition on the use of cash to pay for ridesharing services and, effective as of November 2019, a comprehensive TNC data sharing requirement and a requirement that Drivers in Mexico City obtain additional licenses and annual vehicle inspections to provide ridesharing services. Except for the vehicle inspection, we obtained an injunction against such operational requirements which, if implemented without modification, could have a negative impact on our business and our failure to comply with such regulations may result in a potential revocation of our license to operate in Mexico City. In January 2019, we suspended our Mobility products in Barcelona after the regional government enacted regulations mandating minimum wait times before riders could be picked up by ridesharing drivers. In March 2021, we returned to Barcelona via a taxi product. In addition, in August 2018, New York City approved regulations for the local for-hire market (which includes our ridesharing products), including a cap on the number of new vehicle licenses issued to drivers who offer for-hire services. In December 2018, New York City also established a standard for time and distance designed to establish a minimum pay standard for drivers providing for-hire services in New York City, such as those provided by Drivers on our platform. As another example, in October 2020, the Seattle City Council passed a minimum pay standard for drivers providing services on our platform that went into effect on January 1, 2021, and other jurisdictions have in the past considered or may consider regulations which would implement minimum wage requirements or permit drivers to negotiate for minimum wages while providing services on our platform. Similar legislative or regulatory initiatives are being considered or have been enacted in countries outside the United States. See the section titled Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . This uncertainty and fragmented regulatory environment creates significant complexities for our business and operating model. As we continue to expand our offerings, we may be subject to additional regulations separate from those that apply to our Mobility products. Data Privacy and Protection Our technology platform, and the user data we collect and process to run our business, are an integral part of our business model and, as a result, our compliance with laws dealing with the collection and processing of personal data is core to our strategy to improve platform user experience and build trust. Regulators around the world have adopted or proposed requirements regarding the collection, use, transfer, security, storage, destruction, and other processing of personally identifiable information and other data relating to individuals, and these laws are increasing in number, enforcement, fines, and other penalties. Two examples of such regulations that have significant implications for our business are the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR ), a law which went into effect in May 2018 and implemented more stringent requirements for processing personal data relating to individuals in the EU, and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA ), which went into effect in January 2020 and established new consumer rights and data privacy and protection requirements for covered businesses. U.S. state, city, and foreign regulators are expected to continue proposing and adopting significant laws impacting the processing of personally identifiable information and other data relating to individuals, such as the California Privacy Rights Act ( CPRA ) passed in California in November 2020 (effective in January 2023), and a draft data protection bill pending in India. Payments and Financial Services Most jurisdictions in which we operate have laws that govern payment and financial services activities. For example, our subsidiary in the Netherlands, U