Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 63 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 63 Item 9B. Other Information 64 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 65 Item 11. Executive Compensation 65 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 65 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 65 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 65 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 66 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 73 Table of Contents EXPLANATORY NOTE This Report combines the annual reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 of UDR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, and United Dominion Realty, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, of which UDR, Inc. is the parent company and sole general partner. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Report to we, us, our, the Company, UDR or UDR, Inc. refer collectively to UDR, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, including United Dominion Realty, L.P. and UDR Lighthouse DownREIT L.P. (the DownREIT Partnership ), also a Delaware limited partnership of which UDR is the sole general partner. Unless the context otherwise requires, the references in this Report to the Operating Partnership or the OP refer to United Dominion Realty, L.P., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Common stock refers to the common stock of UDR and stockholders means the holders of shares of UDR s common stock and preferred stock. The limited partnership interests of the Operating Partnership and the DownREIT Partnership are referred to as OP Units and DownREIT Units, respectively, and the holders of the OP Units and DownREIT Units are referred to as unitholders. This combined Form 10-K is being filed separately by UDR and the Operating Partnership. There are a number of differences between the Company and the Operating Partnership, which are reflected in our disclosures in this Report. UDR is a real estate investment trust ( REIT ), whose most significant asset is its ownership interest in the Operating Partnership. UDR also conducts business through other subsidiaries, including its taxable REIT subsidiary ( TRS ). UDR acts as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, holds interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures, owns and operates properties, issues securities from time to time and guarantees debt of certain of our subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of a substantial portion of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity securities. The Operating Partnership has guaranteed certain outstanding debt of UDR. As of December 31, 2019, UDR owned 0.1 million units (100%) of the general partnership interests of the Operating Partnership and 176.1 million OP Units, representing approximately 95.7% of the total outstanding OP Units in the Operating Partnership. UDR conducts a substantial amount of its business and holds a substantial amount of its assets through the Operating Partnership, and, by virtue of its ownership of the OP Units and UDR s role as the Operating Partnership s sole general partner, UDR has the ability to control all of the day-to-day operations of the Operating Partnership. Separate financial statements and accompanying notes, as well as separate discussions under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchasers of Equity Securities and Control and Procedures are presented in this report for each of UDR and the Operating Partnership. In addition, certain disclosures in Business are separated by entity to the extent that the discussion relates to UDR s business outside of the Operating Partnership. Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements concerning property acquisitions and dispositions, development activity and capital expenditures, capital raising activities, rent growth, occupancy, and rental expense growth. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, likely, will, believes, seeks, estimates, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the results of operations or plans expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, unfavorable changes in the apartment market, changing economic conditions, the impact of inflation/deflation on rental rates and property operating expenses, expectations concerning the availability of capital and the stability of the capital markets, the impact of competition and competitive pricing, acquisitions, developments and redevelopments not achieving anticipated results, delays in completing developments and redevelopments, delays in completing lease-ups on schedule or at expected rent and occupancy levels, expectations on job growth, home affordability and demand/supply ratio for multifamily housing, expectations concerning development and redevelopment activities, expectations on occupancy levels and rental rates, expectations concerning joint ventures and partnerships with third parties, expectations that automation will help grow net operating income, and expectations on annualized net operating income. The following factors, among others, could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: general economic conditions; unfavorable changes in apartment market and economic conditions that could adversely affect occupancy levels and rental rates; the failure of acquisitions to achieve anticipated results; possible difficulty in selling apartment communities; competitive factors that may limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents; insufficient cash flow that could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk; failure to generate sufficient revenue, which could impair our debt service payments and distributions to stockholders; development and construction risks that may impact our profitability; potential damage from natural disasters, including hurricanes and other weather-related events, which could result in substantial costs to us; risks from climate change that impacts our properties or operations; risks from extraordinary losses for which we may not have insurance or adequate reserves; risks from cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems and the information technology systems of our third party vendors and other third parties; uninsured losses due to insurance deductibles, self-insurance retention, uninsured claims or casualties, or losses in excess of applicable coverage; delays in completing developments and lease-ups on schedule; our failure to succeed in new markets; 1 Table of Contents risks that third parties who have an interest in or are otherwise involved in projects in which we have an interest, including mezzanine borrowers, joint venture partners or other investors, do not perform as expected; changing interest rates, which could increase interest costs and affect the market price of our securities; potential liability for environmental contamination, which could result in substantial costs to us; the imposition of federal taxes if we fail to qualify as a REIT under the Code in any taxable year; our internal control over financial reporting may not be considered effective which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, and in turn have an adverse effect on our stock price; and changes in real estate laws, tax laws, rent control or stabilization laws or other laws affecting our business. A discussion of these and other factors affecting our business and prospects is set forth in Part I,