Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. [Reserved] 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 58 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 59 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 59 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 Item 11. Executive Compensation 60 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 60 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 60 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 60 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 61 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 69 Table of Contents PART I Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Report to UDR, the Company, we, our and us refer to UDR, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries, including United Dominion Realty, L.P. (the Operating Partnership or the OP ) and UDR Lighthouse DownREIT L.P. (the DownREIT Partnership ). Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements concerning property acquisitions and dispositions, development activity and capital expenditures, capital raising activities, rent growth, occupancy, rental expense growth and expected or potential impacts of the novel coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) pandemic. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, likely, will, believes, seeks, estimates, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the results of operations or plans expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread or address its effects, unfavorable changes in the apartment market, changing economic conditions, the impact of inflation/deflation on rental rates and property operating expenses, expectations concerning the availability of capital and the stability of the capital markets, the impact of competition and competitive pricing, acquisitions, developments and redevelopments not achieving anticipated results, delays in completing developments and redevelopments, delays in completing lease-ups on schedule or at expected rent and occupancy levels, expectations on job growth, home affordability and demand/supply ratio for multifamily housing, expectations concerning development and redevelopment activities, expectations on occupancy levels and rental rates, expectations concerning joint ventures and partnerships with third parties, expectations that automation will help grow net operating income, and expectations on annualized net operating income. The following factors, among others, could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread or address its effects; general market and economic conditions; unfavorable changes in apartment market and economic conditions that could adversely affect occupancy levels and rental rates, including as a result of COVID-19; the failure of acquisitions to achieve anticipated results; possible difficulty in selling apartment communities; competitive factors that may limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents; insufficient cash flow that could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk; failure to generate sufficient revenue, which could impair our debt service payments and distributions to stockholders; development and construction risks that may impact our profitability; potential damage from natural disasters, including hurricanes and other weather-related events, which could result in substantial costs to us; risks from climate change that impacts our properties or operations; risks from extraordinary losses for which we may not have insurance or adequate reserves; risks from cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems and the information technology systems of our third party vendors and other third parties; 1 Table of Contents uninsured losses due to insurance deductibles, self-insurance retention, uninsured claims or casualties, or losses in excess of applicable coverage; delays in completing developments and lease-ups on schedule; our failure to succeed in new markets; risks that third parties who have an interest in or are otherwise involved in projects in which we have an interest, including mezzanine borrowers, joint venture partners or other investors, do not perform as expected; changing interest rates, which could increase interest costs and affect the market price of our securities; potential liability for environmental contamination, which could result in substantial costs to us; the imposition of federal taxes if we fail to qualify as a REIT under the Code in any taxable year; our internal control over financial reporting may not be considered effective which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, and in turn have an adverse effect on our stock price; and changes in real estate laws, tax laws, rent control or stabilization laws or other laws affecting our business. A discussion of these and other factors affecting our business and prospects is set forth in Part I,