Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 41 Item 9B. Other Information 42 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 42 Item 11. Executive Compensation 42 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 42 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 43 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 43 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76 Signatures 77 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to we, us, our, Ulta Beauty, the Company and similar references mean Ulta Beauty, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and financial performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as outlook, believes, expects, plans, estimates, targets, strategies or other comparable words. Any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are based upon our historical performance and on current plans, estimates, and expectations. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the future plans, estimates, targets, strategies, or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which include, without limitation: The uncertain negative impacts the coronavirus (COVID-19) will have on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and supply chain, as well as consumer spending; epidemics, pandemics like COVID-19 or natural disasters that could negatively impact sales; changes in the overall level of consumer spending and volatility in the economy; our ability to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plan; our ability to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner; the possibility that we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets; our ability to execute our Efficiencies for Growth cost optimization program; the possibility that cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information or result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information; the possibility of material disruptions to our information systems; the possibility that the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our newly opened and to be opened distribution centers may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans; changes in the wholesale cost of our products; the possibility that new store openings and existing locations may be impacted by developer or co-tenant issues; our ability to attract and retain key executive personnel; our ability to successfully execute our common stock repurchase program or implement future common stock repurchase programs; and other risk factors detailed in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including risk factors contained in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 1, 2020, as such may be amended or supplemented in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 1 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Overview Ulta Beauty is the largest beauty retailer in the United States and the premier beauty destination for cosmetics, fragrance, skin care products, hair care products, and salon services. We provide unmatched product breadth, value, and convenience in a distinctive specialty retail environment. Key aspects of our business include: Shopping Experience. Our guests can satisfy all of their beauty needs at Ulta Beauty. Our stores, website, and mobile applications offer more than 25,000 products from approximately 500 well-established and emerging beauty brands across all categories and price points, including Ulta Beauty s own private label, the Ulta Beauty Collection. Our bright and open store environment and easy to shop website and mobile applications encourage our guests to discover new products and services. We believe we offer the widest selection of beauty categories, including prestige and mass cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products, professional hair products, and salon styling tools. We also offer a full-service salon in every store featuring hair, skin, makeup, and brow services. Value Proposition. We believe our focus on delivering a compelling value proposition to our guests across all of our product categories drives guest loyalty. We offer a comprehensive loyalty program, Ultamate Rewards, and target promotions through our Customer Relationship Management (CRM) platform. We also offer frequent promotions and coupons, in-store events, and gifts with purchase. Convenience. Our stores are predominantly located in convenient, high-traffic locations such as power strip centers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. Our store design, fixtures, and open layout provide the flexibility to respond to consumer trends and changes in our merchandising strategy. As of February 1, 2020, we operated 1,254 retail stores across 50 states, as well as an e-commerce website and mobile applications. We were founded in 1990 as a beauty retailer at a time when prestige, mass, and salon products were sold through distinct channels department stores for prestige products; drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products; and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair care products. We developed a unique specialty retail concept that offers a broad range of brands and price points, a compelling value proposition, and a convenient and welcoming shopping environment. We define our target consumer as a beauty enthusiast, a consumer who is passionate about the beauty category and has high expectations for the shopping experience. We estimate that beauty enthusiasts represent approximately 57% of shoppers and 77% of spend in the U.S. beauty category. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with the information contained in our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 and our Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our strategy We are committed to executing our strategic imperatives to drive long-term growth and sustainable competitive advantages. Drive growth across beauty enthusiast consumer groups. We target beauty enthusiasts across multiple demographics and shopping behaviors. With the unique needs and perspectives of our beauty enthusiast consumer groups, we have evolved how we connect with each group. We believe we can drive guest acquisition across beauty enthusiast consumer groups by evolving our brand purpose and marketing mix, expanding our efforts to target specific consumer groups, and driving our leadership as a diversity-forward brand. 2 Table of Contents As we sharpen our brand positioning, we are increasing awareness of the Ulta Beauty brand by communicating our brand differentiation through broad scale advertising. We leverage a wide range of marketing tactics including digital, television, direct mail, social media, and public relations to drive brand engagement, deepen the guest connection to Ulta Beauty, and strengthen our authority in the beauty category. We also plan to continue to drive brand awareness and traffic by making human connections in more innovative and meaningful ways by continuing to transform our marketing mix towards channels of the future. Deepen Ulta Beauty love and loyalty. We believe we can expand Ulta Beauty s reach, relevancy, and engagement with our guests by evolving the value proposition of our Ultamate Rewards program, increasing total membership in the program, building strategic partnerships that create incremental value for our guests, and using our customer data to deliver personalized member experiences. We have more than 34 million active Ulta Beauty guests enrolled in our Ultamate Rewards loyalty program. Loyalty member transactions represent more than 95% of our annual total net sales, and our data demonstrates that loyalty members shop with higher frequency and spend more per visit as compared to non-members. We intend to continue to innovate this program to keep it relevant, exciting, engaging, and growing. Our vision is to personalize messaging, communication, and experiences across every touch point: in-store, online, and through digital (including mobile) and print channels. Deliver a one of a kind, world class beauty assortment. Assortment is at the center of our value proposition and represents a core differentiator within the market. We engage beauty enthusiasts to discover and play across all categories with an enticing assortment focused on innovation and leading trends, differentiation and exclusivity, and speed to market. We believe our broad selection of merchandise across categories, price points, and brands offer a unique shopping experience for our guests. Guests can find everything they need in one shopping trip with our approximately 500 brands offered, eliminating the need to go to multiple departments stores, specialty stores, salons, drug stores, mass merchandisers, and pure play e-commerce companies that may sell the same or similar products. We continue to evolve our assortment to meet our guests desire for new and exclusive products. We also continue to upgrade and enhance the Ulta Beauty Collection, our private label, which offers products in key categories such as cosmetics, skincare, and bath. Because of our broad array of categories, brands, and price points, we appeal to a wide range of consumers of all ages, demographics, and lifestyles. Lead the in-store and beauty services experience transformation. The Ulta Beauty guest experience today is differentiated by our broad array of categories, brands, and price points, high quality services, and friendly, well-trained associates. Our strategic vision is to transcend our competition by creating an immersive store experience that brings beauty to life in ways others cannot, by weaving together the best of products and services, focusing on human connection, and delivering a meaningful guest experience. Ulta Beauty is a leading salon authority that provides high quality and consistent services from our licensed stylists and estheticians, with a focus on hair, skin, makeup, and brows. Our service offering is an important platform because it creates a means to connect more closely with our guests and to elevate their experience in our stores. Our strategy is to drive awareness and trial of our services with new guests as well as accelerate the frequency of existing guests visits. We believe focusing on guest satisfaction, increasing effectiveness of promotions, and optimizing staffing, scheduling, and training will make our services business an even stronger differentiator in our stores. Reinvent beauty digital engagement. Our strategic vision is to build industry leading digital experiences that engage our guests through our differentiated assortment, personalization, convenience, and interactive experiences. Our omnichannel guests are extremely valuable, spending nearly three times more than retail-only guests. To increase this engagement, we have a multifaceted approach to communicate, engage, and transact across all channels and touch points. By creating digital experiences that are visual and immersive, and seamlessly merging content and commerce, we aim to be the unmatched source of personalized beauty information and make the beauty shopping experience fun, interactive, easy, and functional. Deliver operational excellence and drive efficiencies. Our strategic vision is to manage end-to-end speed, quality, and efficiency to deliver exceptional guest experiences, while leveraging efficiencies of scale to drive profit improvement. Through our cost optimization program, Efficiencies For Growth, we plan to achieve cost savings in four work streams: category performance improvement, indirect procurement, end-to-end operations, and real estate. These operating efficiencies will help us fund investments required for future growth. 3 Table of Contents Invest in talent that drives a winning culture. Leadership, culture, and engagement of our associates are key drivers of our performance. We have an experienced management team that brings a creative merchandising approach and a disciplined operating philosophy to our business. We believe that beauty is for everyone, regardless of age, size, ability, skin tone, culture, or gender. We strive to provide an environment where every associate feels they can fully contribute and every guest is optimally served, regardless of differences. Our well-trained, non-commissioned store associates are highly engaged and deliver a differentiated guest experience. We continue to expand the depth of our team at all levels and in all functional areas to support our growth. Our market We operate within the large and growing U.S. beauty products and salon services industry. This market represents approximately $150 billion in sales, according to Euromonitor International and IBIS World Inc. The approximately $89 billion beauty products industry includes cosmetics, haircare, fragrance, bath and body, skincare, salon styling tools, and other toiletries. We estimate that Ulta Beauty has only an 8% share of the $89 billion beauty product industry. Within this market, we compete across all major categories as well as a range of price points by offering prestige, mass, and salon products. Our assortment strategy is built to maximize our opportunity in this industry. The approximately $61 billion salon services industry consists of hair, skin, and nail services. We estimate that Ulta Beauty has less than 1% share of this industry. We have full-service hair salons and skin services in substantially every store and operate brow bars in most of our stores, as well as makeup services through our salons. Our research indicates that Ulta Beauty continues to increase market share across all categories. However, our research also indicates that the cosmetics category in the overall U.S. market experienced declines in 2019. Beauty cycles are impacted by demographics, trends, and product innovation. While demographic trends continue to be favorable, we believe a lack of incremental product innovation has resulted in a challenging cycle for the cosmetics category, as innovation brought to the market has not resulted in incremental product purchases. Despite the overall market decline in the cosmetics category, we remain confident that our differentiated and diverse business model, our commitment to strategic investments, and our highly engaged associates will continue to drive market share gains for Ulta Beauty. Competition Our major competitors for prestige and mass products include traditional department stores, specialty stores, drug stores, mass merchandisers, and the online capabilities of national retailers and brands, as well as pure-play e-commerce companies. The market for salon services and products is highly fragmented. Our competitors for salon services and products include chain and independent salons. Our stores Our retail stores are predominantly located in convenient, high-traffic locations such as power strip centers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. Our retail store concept, including physical layout, displays, lighting, and quality of finishes, has evolved over time to match the rising expectations of our guests and to keep pace with our merchandising and operating strategies. We offer a full range of services in all of our stores, focusing on hair, skin, makeup, and brow services. Our current Ulta Beauty store format includes an open and modern salon area and a skin treatment room or dedicated skin treatment area on the sales floor. In addition, the majority of our stores offer brow services on the sales floor. The salon features a concierge desk, approximately five to ten stations, and a shampoo and hair color processing area. We employ highly skilled, licensed professional stylists and estheticians who offer services as well as educational experiences, including consultations, styling lessons, makeup applications, skincare regimens, and at-home care recommendations. During our fiscal year ended February 1, 2020 (fiscal 2019), 74% of new stores opened in existing shopping centers and 26% opened in new shopping centers. Almost all new stores were opened in existing markets compared to new markets. As of February 1, 2020, we operated 1,254 stores across 50 states. 4 Table of Contents In addition to opening new stores, we also remodeled, relocated, or refreshed (in-store fixtures and merchandising upgrades) certain stores, as shown in the following table: Fiscal year ended February 1, February 2, February 3, 2020 2019 2018 Total stores beginning of period 1,174 1,074 974 Stores opened 86 107 102 Stores closed (6) (7) (2) Total stores end of period 1,254 1,174 1,074 Total square footage 13,193,076 12,337,145 11,300,920 Average square footage per store 10,521 10,509 10,522 Stores remodeled 12 13 11 Stores relocated 8 2 7 Stores refreshed 240 109 190 Our real estate vision is to make Ulta Beauty accessible and convenient to more consumers across a variety of markets, a key part of how we plan to expand our market share over time. We believe that over the long term, we have the potential to grow our store base to between 1,500 to 1,700 Ulta Beauty stores in the United States. We plan to further penetrate existing suburban markets, expand our presence in small markets, and further develop urban markets. Our rigorous analytical approach to site selection has translated into a high performing real estate portfolio. The average investment required to open a new Ulta Beauty store is approximately $1.3 million, which includes capital investments, net of landlord contributions, pre-opening expenses, and initial inventory, net of payables. Our net investment required to open new stores and the net sales generated by new stores may vary depending on a number of factors, including geographic location. While we have opportunity to expand our footprint within the U.S., in fiscal 2019 we announced our decision to expand internationally and establish Ulta Beauty as a global brand, with our first market entry in Canada. Omnichannel strategy In addition to store expansion, we expect to significantly grow our omnichannel capabilities. Our e-commerce platform has two key roles: generating direct channel sales and profits by communicating with our guests in an interactive, enjoyable way that reinforces the Ulta Beauty brand; and driving traffic to our stores, website, and native applications. Our omnichannel guests are extremely valuable, spending nearly three times as much as retail-only guests. We continue to develop and add new website and mobile features and functionality, marketing programs, new products and brands, and omnichannel integration points. We intend to establish ourselves as a leading online beauty resource by providing our guests with a rich online experience for information on key trends and products, editorial content, expanded assortments, interactive experiences, including virtual try-on capabilities, and social media content. We also continue to improve our order fulfillment capabilities with increased speed of delivery through new distribution centers and efficient processes designed for e-commerce order fulfillment. Our omnichannel capabilities such as Buy Online, Pick-up in Store and Store 2 Door, which provides the ability for customers to order in-store and have products delivered to their homes, are available in all stores. Merchandising Strategy We offer one of the most extensive product and brand selections in our industry, including a broad assortment of branded and private label beauty products in cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products, and salon styling tools. A typical Ulta Beauty store carries more than 25,000 products from approximately 500 well-established and 5 Table of Contents emerging beauty brands across all categories and price points, including Ulta Beauty s own private label, the Ulta Beauty Collection. We present these products in an open-sell environment using centrally produced planograms (detailed schematics showing product placement in the store) and promotional merchandising planners. Our merchandising team continually monitors beauty and fashion trends, historical sales trends, and new product launches to keep Ulta Beauty s product assortment fresh and relevant to our guests. We believe our broad selection of merchandise, from moderate-priced brands to higher-end prestige brands, creates a unique shopping experience for our guests. We believe our private label, the Ulta Beauty Collection, is a strategically important opportunity for growth and profit contribution. Our objective is to provide quality, trend-right private label products to continue to strengthen our guests perception of Ulta Beauty as a contemporary beauty destination. Ulta Beauty manages the full development cycle of these products from concept through production to deliver differentiated packaging and formulas that enhance our brand image. We also offer products such as Tarte Double Duty Beauty cosmetics, IT Brushes for Ulta Beauty, and CHI for Ulta Beauty hair care appliances that are permanently exclusive to Ulta Beauty. Similarly, we offer a number of products that are exclusive for a limited period of time or are offered in advance of our competitors, such as Kylie Cosmetics, Morphe, Colourpop, Pattern, and Florence. During 2019, we launched Sparked at Ulta Beauty, which is a platform designed to feature a curated, ever-evolving selection of emerging brands, across all categories, in select stores and on ulta.com. The Ulta Beauty Collection and permanent Ulta Beauty exclusive products represented approximately 6.2% of our total net sales in fiscal 2019. Both permanent and temporary exclusive products represented approximately 12.9% of our total net sales in fiscal 2019. Categories We offer a balanced portfolio across five primary categories: (1) cosmetics; (2) skincare, bath and fragrance; (3) haircare products and styling tools; (4) services; and (5) other, which includes nail products, accessories, other revenue sources such as the private label credit card and co-branded credit card programs, and deferred revenue related to the loyalty program and gift card breakage. The following table sets forth the approximate percentage of net sales attributed to each category for the periods presented: Fiscal year ended February 1, February 2, February 3, 2020 2019 2018 Cosmetics 50% 51% 51% Skincare, bath, and fragrance 22% 21% 21% Haircare products and styling tools 19% 19% 19% Services 5% 5% 6% Other (nail products, accessories, and other) 4% 4% 3% 100% 100% 100% Organization Our merchandising team consists of a Chief Merchandising Officer who oversees category Vice Presidents who in turn oversee Divisional Merchandise Managers and their team of buyers. Our merchandising team works with our centralized merchandise planning and forecasting group to ensure consistent execution across our store base and e-commerce platform. Our planogram department assists the merchants and inventory teams to keep new products flowing into stores on a timely basis. All major product categories undergo planogram revisions on a regular basis, and adjustments are made to assortment mix and product placement based on current sales trends. Our visual department works with our merchandising team to develop strategic placement of promotional merchandise, functional and educational signage, and creative product presentation standards in all of our stores. All stores receive a centrally produced promotional merchandising planner to ensure consistent implementation of our marketing programs. 6 Table of Contents Planning and allocation We have developed a disciplined approach to buying and a dynamic inventory planning and allocation process to support our merchandising strategy. We centrally manage product replenishment to our stores through our merchandise planning group. This group serves as a strategic partner to, and provides financial oversight of, the merchandising team. The merchandising team creates a sales forecast by category for the year. Our merchandise planning group creates an open-to-buy plan, approved by senior executives, for each product category. The open-to-buy plan is updated weekly with point-of-sale (POS) data, receipts, and inventory levels and is used throughout the year to balance buying opportunities and inventory return on investment. We believe this structure maximizes our buying opportunities while maintaining organizational and financial control. Regularly replenished products are presented consistently in all stores utilizing a centralized merchandising planogram process. POS data is used to calculate sales forecasts and to determine replenishment levels. We determine promotional product replenishment levels using sales history from similar or comparable events. To ensure our inventory remains productive, our planning and replenishment group, along with senior executives, monitor the levels of clearance and aged inventory in our stores on a weekly basis. Vendor partnerships We have strong, active relationships with our more than 400 vendor partners. Our top ten vendor partners, such as Est e Lauder Companies, L Or al, and Shiseido among others, represented approximately 61% and 62% of our total net sales in fiscal 2019 and our fiscal year ended February 2, 2019 (fiscal 2018), respectively. We believe our vendor partners view us as a significant distribution channel for growth and brand enhancement, and we work closely with them to market both new and existing brands. Marketing and advertising We employ a multi-faceted marketing strategy to increase brand awareness, drive traffic to our stores, website, and mobile applications, acquire new guests, improve guest retention, and increase frequency of shopping. We communicate with our guests and prospective guests through multiple vehicles, including print advertising, digital and social media, and television and radio. These vehicles highlight the breadth of our selection of prestige, mass, and salon beauty products, new products and services, and special offers. Our comprehensive public relations strategy enhances Ulta Beauty s reputation as a beauty destination, increases brand awareness, supports our charitable efforts related to the Ulta Beauty Charitable Foundation, and drives awareness of new products, in-store events, and new store openings. Our loyalty program, Ultamate Rewards, is an important tool to increase retention of existing guests and to enhance their loyalty to the Ulta Beauty brand. Approximately 34 million active loyalty program members generated more than 95% of Ulta Beauty s total net sales in fiscal 2019. Our data demonstrates that loyalty members shop with higher frequency and spend more per visit as compared to non-members. Ultamate Rewards enables customers to earn points based on their purchases. Points earned are valid for at least one year and may be redeemed on any product we sell or service we provide. Our CRM platform enables sophisticated analysis of the customer data in our loyalty member database as well as greater personalization of our marketing campaigns. To enhance our loyalty program, we offer co-branded and private label credit cards. The credit cards drive higher wallet share and greater loyalty from our rewards members, provide increased consumer insights, and offer attractive economics. We continue to expand our gift card program to increase distribution to thousands of retailers through partnerships with third parties. We are directing a growing percentage of our marketing expense towards digital, social media, and streaming advertising. We believe these channels are highly effective in communicating with existing guests, as well as reaching those who have not yet shopped with us. Our marketing program has been effective in communicating with our existing online, mobile, and retail guests in a targeted and releva