Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Item 4A. Executive Officers 27 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 43 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 43 Item 9B. Other Information 44 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 44 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 Item 11. Executive Compensation 44 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 45 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 45 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 45 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 46 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 81 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to we, us, our, Ulta Beauty, the Company and similar references mean Ulta Beauty, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and financial performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as outlook, believes, expects, plans, estimates, targets, strategies or other comparable words. Any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are based upon our historical performance and on current plans, estimates, and expectations. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the future plans, estimates, targets, strategies, or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which include, without limitation: changes in the overall level of consumer spending and volatility in the economy, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and geo-political events; the impact of current inflationary cost pressures on payroll, benefits and supply chain; our ability to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plan; the ability to execute our operational excellence priorities, including continuous improvement, Project SOAR (our replacement enterprise resource planning platform), and supply chain optimization; the negative impacts the COVID-19 pandemic has had, and will continue to have on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and supply chain, as well as consumer spending (including future uncertain impacts); epidemics, pandemics like COVID-19 or natural disasters that have and could continue to negatively impact sales; our ability to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner; the possibility that we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets; the possibility that cybersecurity or information security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information or result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information; the possibility of material disruptions to our information systems; the failure to maintain satisfactory compliance with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations; the possibility that the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our distribution centers and fast fulfillment centers may not be adequate to support our expected future growth plans; changes in the wholesale cost of our products; a decline in operating results that has and may continue to lead to asset impairment and store closure charges; the possibility that new store openings and existing locations may be impacted by developer or co-tenant issues; our ability to attract and retain key executive personnel; the impact of climate change on our business operations and/or supply chain; our ability to successfully execute our common stock repurchase program or implement future common stock repurchase programs; and other risk factors detailed in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including risk factors contained in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 29, 2022, as such may be amended or supplemented in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 1 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Overview Ulta Beauty is the largest beauty retailer in the United States and the premier beauty destination for cosmetics, fragrance, skin care products, hair care products, and salon services. Key aspects of our business include: One-of-a-kind Assortment. We offer guests a differentiated assortment of more than 25,000 products from more than 600 well-established and emerging beauty brands across a variety of categories and price points. We believe we offer the widest selection of beauty categories, including prestige and mass cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, prestige and mass skincare, bath and body products, professional hair products, and salon styling tools. Store Footprint. We operate more than 1,300 stores predominantly located in convenient, high-traffic locations. With a bright and open store environment, we make it easy for guests to discover new products and services. Our store design, fixtures, and open layout provide the flexibility to respond to consumer trends and changes in our merchandising strategy. We also offer a full-service salon in every store featuring hair, eyebrow and other beauty services. Leading Digital Experiences. Through our website, Ulta.com, and our mobile applications, we offer guests convenient, interactive and personalized digital experiences. Our digital channels enable always-on shopping and discovery, and our diverse fulfillment options, including buy online pick-up in store, buy online pick-up curbside, ship from store, ship to home, and same-day delivery, provide guests with value and convenience. In addition to e-commerce platforms, we offer guests a variety of unique digital experiences, including virtual try-on and skin analysis tools, which leverage augmented reality capabilities and artificial intelligence tools to provide guests with personalized experiences. Best-in-Class Loyalty Program. Our best-in-class loyalty program, Ultamate Rewards, enables members to earn points for every dollar spent on products and beauty services at Ulta Beauty, through purchases on our private label and co-branded credit cards, and purchases at Ulta Beauty at Target. In addition to unique membership benefits, members can redeem points for discounts on any product or service at Ulta Beauty. With more than 95% of total sales coming from members, we are uniquely positioned with a deep understanding of our customers and their preferences which enables us to personalize experiences and target communications and promotions through our Customer Relationship Management (CRM) platform. Great Guest Experiences. We cultivate human connection with warm and welcoming guest experiences across all of our channels. Our knowledgeable and approachable store associates, our differentiated service offerings, and our efforts to create relevant, compelling digital content are competitive advantages and enable us to build strong engagement with guests. We were founded in 1990 as a beauty retailer at a time when prestige, mass, and salon products were sold through distinct channels department stores for prestige products; drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products; and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair care products. We developed a unique specialty retail concept that offers a broad range of brands and price points, select beauty services, and a convenient and welcoming shopping environment. We define our target consumer as a beauty enthusiast, a consumer who is passionate about the beauty category, uses beauty for self-expression, experimentation, and self-investment, and has high expectations for the shopping experience. We estimate that female beauty enthusiasts represent approximately 60% of shoppers and 75% of spend in the U.S. beauty category. 2 Table of Contents The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with the information contained in our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 and our Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our strategy We target beauty enthusiasts across multiple demographics and shopping behaviors. Beauty enthusiasts have a deep emotional connection with beauty, and historically, this connection has not diminished in softer economic environments. Our proprietary consumer research confirms engagement with the beauty category remains strong, but the unprecedented disruption resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic has had sustained effects on the category. Consumers are approaching their desire for normalcy with caution, reengaging in retail shopping visits while also holding to some of their new online shopping behaviors. In addition, the operational and competitive landscape remains dynamic, and many costs are increasing, including supply chain and labor costs. Reflecting our understanding about how the consumer and beauty category are evolving, we have refreshed our strategic framework to position Ulta Beauty for continued success. We are focused on six key strategic pillars designed to expand our market leadership and drive longer-term profitable growth. Drive breakthrough and disruptive growth through an expanded definition of All Things Beauty. Beauty enthusiasts enjoy the experience of discovering and trying new products and increasingly include beauty as part of their self-care and wellness journey. Reflecting these insights, our objective is to engage and continuously delight beauty enthusiasts with a curated, differentiated, inclusive assortment focused on leading beauty and self-care trends. We are focused on four key areas: maximizing growth in core categories, including makeup, skincare, haircare, and fragrance; driving growth of cross-category strategic platforms, including Conscious Beauty at Ulta Beauty , Black-owned and Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC)-founded Brands, and the Wellness Shop; differentiating our assortment through exclusive brands and products, including our private label, Ulta Beauty Collection; and increasing profitability through assortment management, inventory productivity, and promotional optimization. Evolve the omnichannel experience through connected physical and digital ecosystems, All In Your World. Our guest insights and member data confirm that beauty enthusiasts prefer to transact in physical stores, where they can discover and interact with products and other beauty enthusiasts. At the same time, digital channels offer convenience, product reviews, and price transparency. As a result, the guest journey is increasingly blurring across physical and digital channels. To drive greater guest engagement across all channels, we intend to expand our physical footprint, continue to differentiate our service offerings, and grow our buy anywhere, fill anywhere capabilities while further enhancing our digital and mobile experiences and driving competitive advantage through digital innovation. Our objective is to deliver a cohesive, industry-leading omnichannel experience that drives breakthrough engagement with our guests and unlocks the combined potential of our physical and digital channels. Expand and deepen our presence across the beauty journey, solidifying Ulta Beauty at the Heart of the Beauty Community. To understand longer-term shifts in consumer values, perceptions, and behaviors, as well as of-the-moment insights, we have developed a robust consumer research capability. In addition, with more than 95% of total sales coming from members of our Ultamate Rewards loyalty program, we have unique insights about customer preferences and behavior. Based on our proprietary insights, we know beauty enthusiasts have an emotional, personal, and deep connection with beauty. Social media contributes to this connection, and we expect the influence and reach of beauty will continue to grow as engagement with social platforms increases. To expand Ulta Beauty s reach, relevancy, and guest engagement, we intend to amplify our brand purpose; build a creator and content ecosystem to deliver compelling, relevant beauty-tainment; leverage the power of live streaming and social selling; drive further innovation in our Ultamate Rewards program; and use our member data to increase personalization and drive conversion. Our vision is to expand and deepen our presence across the beauty journey to increase consumer acquisition and drive guest engagement, loyalty, and share of wallet. Drive operational excellence and optimization. Similar to other retailers, we are experiencing cost pressures from macroeconomic trends, including rising wage rates and higher transportation and shipping costs. In addition, we are managing ongoing headwinds from channel and category mix shifts. To mitigate the impact of these pressures and 3 Table of Contents support our future growth, we have developed a continuous improvement capability to identify and activate meaningful, cross-functional process optimization opportunities; we are upgrading our enterprise resource planning platform to increase efficiency and support future growth; and we are enhancing our supply chain network to increase agility, speed and cost-efficiency. Our vision is to deliver profitable growth and competitive advantage by optimizing our cost structure to enable scale, developing agile operating processes that enable real-time visibility and decision-making, and building new capabilities tailored to win in a rapidly evolving omnichannel world. Protect and cultivate our world-class culture and talent. We have developed and nurtured a guest and associate-centric, values-based and high-performance culture. These tenets are core to how we lead, how we engage with our guests and partners, and how we make decisions. We value and encourage collaboration and enterprise thinking, and we respect and listen to our associates to continually improve as a company. We have an experienced leadership team and committed, passionate associates committed to living our values while caring for our guests and for each other. To support our growth and enhance the guest experience, we will continue to attract, develop and retain talent at all levels and in all functional areas, and we will continue to work to create an environment where every associate feels they can fully contribute and have an opportunity to grow. Expand our environmental and social impact. As a leader in the beauty industry, we have an opportunity to drive positive impact. We believe that beauty is for everyone, regardless of age, size, ability, skin tone, culture, or gender, and we strive to provide an environment where every associate feels they can realize their full potential and every guest is optimally served, regardless of differences. We empower and inspire guests to make informed and sustainable product choices through our unique Conscious Beauty at Ulta Beauty program, and we strive to protect the beauty of our natural environment and minimize our impact on the world around us by managing our stores energy, water, and waste footprints. We are committed to making the world a better place, and we are focused on driving sustainable change in areas where we can make the biggest impact and committed to collaborating with others to address shared challenges. Our market We operate within the large and growing U.S. beauty products and salon services industry. In 2021, this market represented approximately $140 billion in sales, according to forecasted Euromonitor International and IBIS World Inc. In 2021, the beauty products industry totaled approximately $91 billion and included cosmetics, haircare, fragrance, bath and body, skincare, salon styling tools, and other toiletries. We estimate that Ulta Beauty had only a 9% share of the $91 billion beauty product industry. Within this market, we compete across all major categories as well as a range of price points by offering prestige, mass, and salon products. In 2021, the salon services industry totaled approximately $49 billion and included hair, skin, and nail services. We estimate that Ulta Beauty had less than 1% share of this industry. We have full-service hair salons and skin services in substantially every store and operate brow bars in most of our stores, as well as makeup services through our salons. Due to remaining COVID-19 related restrictions, our services offering was limited in our fiscal year ended January 29, 2022 (fiscal 2021), but we have plans to resume these services as soon as it is safe to do so. While both the industry and our business was impacted by ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, particularly in salon services, our research indicates that Ulta Beauty continues to increase market share across most prestige beauty categories in the overall U.S. market. We expect the beauty category will continue its recovery as consumers recover from the impacts of COVID-19, and we remain confident that our differentiated and diverse business model, our commitment to strategic investments, and our highly engaged associates will continue to drive market share gains for Ulta Beauty. Competition Our major competitors for prestige and mass products include traditional department stores, specialty stores, grocery stores, drug stores, mass merchandisers, and the online capabilities of national retailers and brands, as well as pure-play e-commerce companies. The market for salon services and products is highly fragmented. Our competitors for salon services and products include chain and independent salons. 4 Table of Contents Our retail channels We are committed to meeting guests where and how they want to shop and strive to offer guests a compelling, personalized shopping experience through our stores, website, mobile applications, and partnerships. Stores. Our member data suggests our guests prefer to transact in physical stores, where they can discover and interact with products and other beauty enthusiasts. In fiscal 2021, 75% of our loyalty members only shopped in Ulta Beauty stores. Our retail stores are predominantly located in convenient, high-traffic locations such as power strip centers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. Our retail store concept, including physical layout, displays, lighting, and quality of finishes, has changed over time to reflect the rising expectations of our guests and our evolving merchandising and operating strategies. We offer a full range of beauty services in all of our stores, focusing on hair, skin, makeup, and brow services. Our current Ulta Beauty store format includes an open and modern salon area and a skin treatment room or dedicated skin treatment area on the sales floor. In addition, most of our stores offer brow services on the sales floor. The salon features a concierge desk, approximately five to ten stations, and a shampoo and hair color processing area. We employ highly skilled, licensed professional stylists and estheticians who offer services as well as educational experiences, including consultations, styling lessons, makeup applications, skincare regimens, and at-home care recommendations. Due to ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, we operated at less-than-full capacity for salon and brow services for most of fiscal 2021. While we lifted capacity constraints for most salon and brow services in fiscal 2021, we were unable to offer makeup services in all stores and skin services in most stores due to remaining COVID-19 related restrictions. We have plans to resume these services as soon as it is safe to do so. During fiscal 2021, 71% of new stores opened in existing shopping centers and 29% opened in new shopping centers. All new stores were opened in existing markets. As of January 29, 2022, we operated 1,308 stores across 50 states. In addition to opening new stores, we also remodeled, relocated, or refreshed (in-store fixtures and merchandising upgrades) certain stores, as shown in the following table: Fiscal year ended January 29, January 30, February 1, 2022 2021 2020 Total stores beginning of period 1,264 1,254 1,174 Stores opened 48 30 86 Stores closed (4) (20) (6) Total stores end of period 1,308 1,264 1,254 Total square footage 13,770,438 13,291,838 13,193,076 Average square footage per store 10,528 10,516 10,521 Stores remodeled 9 12 Stores relocated 7 5 8 Stores refreshed 240 Our real estate vision is to make Ulta Beauty accessible and convenient to more consumers across a variety of markets, a key driver of how we plan to expand our market share over time. We believe that over the long term, we have the potential to grow our store footprint to between 1,500 to 1,700 freestanding Ulta Beauty stores in the United States. In addition, over the long term we expect to open up to 800 Ulta Beauty at Target shops. We leverage a variety of insights to identify the best new store locations and optimize our current store locations, including beauty market share information and insights from our loyalty members. This insight-led, analytical approach to site selection has resulted in a high performing real estate portfolio. The average investment required to open a new Ulta Beauty store is approximately $1.4 million, which includes capital investments, net of landlord contributions, pre- 5 Table of Contents opening expenses, and initial inventory, net of payables. Our net investment required to open new stores and the net sales generated by new stores may vary depending on a number of factors, including geographic location. Digital platform. In addition to store expansion, we continue to expand our digital capabilities as more of our guests choose to engage with us across physical and digital platforms. In fiscal 2021, 17% of our loyalty members shopped in Ulta Beauty stores and through our digital platforms. Our e-commerce platform has two key roles: generating direct channel sales and profits by communicating with our guests in an interactive, enjoyable way that reinforces the Ulta Beauty brand; and driving traffic to our stores, website, and native applications. Our omnichannel guests are extremely valuable, historically spending nearly three times as much as retail-only guests. We continue to develop and add new website and mobile features and functionality, marketing programs, new products and brands, and omnichannel integration points. We intend to establish ourselves as a leading online beauty resource by providing our guests with a rich online experience, with information on key trends and products, editorial content, expanded assortments, interactive experiences, including virtual try-on capabilities, and social media content. We continue to improve our order fulfillment capabilities with increased speed of delivery through existing distribution centers, fast fulfillment centers (e-commerce only), and select retail stores, and through more efficient processes designed for e-commerce order fulfillment. In addition to ship to home order fulfillment, we offer guests Buy Online, Pick-up in Store, Curbside Pickup, and Store 2 Door, which provides the ability for customers to order in-store and have products delivered to their homes. In fiscal 2021, we launched same-day delivery for e-commerce orders in select markets. Partnerships To expand our reach and introduce new guests to Ulta Beauty, we have formed a long-term partnership with Target Corporation to create Ulta Beauty at Target, a shop-in-shop concept that offers a curated assortment of more than 50 established and emerging prestige brands across a variety of categories. Co-designed by Ulta Beauty and Target, the Ulta Beauty at Target shop is intended to mirror the Ulta Beauty experience with a unique and elevated presentation in 1,000 square feet of dedicated space separate but adjacent to Target s core beauty department. The shop is staffed by Target team members who are trained by Ulta Beauty to provide recommendations and answer product questions. Members in our loyalty program, Ultamate Rewards, can accumulate points (but not redeem) for purchases made in the Ulta Beauty at Target shop. Loyalty points can only be redeemed in Ulta Beauty stores, on Ulta.com or through our mobile applications. As of January 29, 2022, Ulta Beauty at Target was available in approximately 100 Target locations and on target.com. Over time, we believe Ulta Beauty at Target can be in up to 800 Target locations. Merchandising Strategy We offer one of the most extensive product and brand selections in our industry, including a broad assortment of branded and private label beauty products in cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products, and salon styling tools. Across our stores, Ulta.com and our mobile applications, we offer more than 25,000 products from more than 600 well-established and emerging beauty brands across all categories and price points, including Ulta Beauty s own private label, the Ulta Beauty Collection. Our merchandising team continually monitors beauty and fashion trends, historical sales trends, and new product launches to keep Ulta Beauty s product assortment fresh and relevant and to ensure that our assortment reflects the diversity of our guests. We believe our broad selection of merchandise, from moderate-priced brands to higher-end prestige brands, creates a unique shopping experience for our guests. Certain beauty enthusiasts are growing more interested in choosing products that support their own personal well-being and the well-being of workers, animals, communities, and the environment, and they are increasingly supporting brands whose products and actions align with their own values. Reflecting this growing importance of these trends, in fiscal 2020 we launched Conscious Beauty at Ulta Beauty in all stores, on Ulta.com, and on our mobile applications. This holistic initiative provides transparency for guests to help them choose brands and products that reflect their personal values and individual needs. Through this initiative, we certify brands and products across four key pillars, Clean Ingredients, Cruelty Free, Vegan, and Sustainable Packaging, and recognize brands for their Positive Impact on our 6 Table of Contents community. Displayed in stores on an endcap constructed of recycled and recyclable materials, the program launched with 187 brands. As of January 29, 2022, more than 270 brands participated in the program, with more than half certified in more than one pillar. As part of the launch, we published our Made Without List, an evolving ingredient standard for clean beauty products, and established the Conscious Beauty Advisory Council, a coalition of experts at the forefront of clean beauty, product development, and packaging sustainability. With the help of our Advisory Council, we will ensure that Conscious Beauty at Ulta Beauty will continue to evolve and grow as expectations and standards for clean beauty continue to change. During the past few years there has been a growing focus for consumers on self-care. Based on internal proprietary research, 65% of consumers see the beauty category as being significantly connected to wellness. In response to this trend, we launched The Wellness Shop in select stores and online that offers an assortment of products across five platforms: everyday care, supplements and ingestibles, relax and renew, down there care, and spa at home. We have a long tradition of being a diversity-forward company. We aspire to be beauty at its most inclusive and have made several important commitments across our marketing, assortment and training efforts to ensure guests, associates, partners and communities feel connected to and reflected at Ulta Beauty and are able to discover beauty on their own terms. During fiscal 2021, we doubled the number of Black-owned brands in our assortment and are committed to dedicate 15% of our total assortment to Black-owned, Black-founded and Black-led brands over time. We believe our private label, the Ulta Beauty Collection, is a strategically important opportunity for growth and profit contribution. Our objective is to provide quality, trend-right private label products to continue to strengthen our guests perception of Ulta Beauty as a contemporary beauty destination. Ulta Beauty manages the full development cycle of these products from concept through production to deliver differentiated packaging and formulas that enhance our brand image. The Ulta Beauty Collection has been certified in the Clean Ingredients and Cruelt