Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [Reserved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statement s and Supplementary Data 37 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9B. Other Information 70 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 70 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related S tock holder Matters 71 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 71 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 71 Part IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 72 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 81 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR BUSINESSES Overview The terms we, our, us, its, UnitedHealth Group, or the Company used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries. UnitedHealth Group Incorporated is a health care and well-being company with a mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Our two distinct, yet complementary business platforms Optum and UnitedHealthcare are working to help build a modern, high-performing health system through improved access, affordability, outcomes and experiences for the individuals and organizations we are privileged to serve. The ability to analyze complex data and apply deep health care expertise and insights allows us to serve people, care providers, businesses, communities and governments with more innovative products and complete, end-to-end offerings for many of the biggest challenges facing health care today. Optum combines clinical expertise, technology and data to empower people, partners and providers with the guidance and tools they need to achieve better health. Optum serves the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, governments, life sciences companies and consumers, through its Optum Health, Optum Insight and Optum Rx businesses. These businesses improve overall health system performance by optimizing care quality and delivery, reducing costs and improving consumer and provider experience, leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, health care operations, population health and health care delivery. UnitedHealthcare offers a full range of health benefits, enabling affordable coverage, simplifying the health care experience, improving consumer health, advancing health equity and delivering access to high-quality care. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, public sector employers and individual consumers. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits for Medicare beneficiaries and retirees. UnitedHealthcare Community State manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants. UnitedHealthcare Global provides health and dental benefits and hospital and clinical services to employer groups and individuals in South America, and through other diversified global health services. We have four reportable segments: Optum Health; Optum Insight; Optum Rx; and UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community State and UnitedHealthcare Global. Optum Optum is an information and technology-enabled health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including: Those who need care: consumers who need the right care, information, resources, products and engagement to improve their health, achieve their health goals and receive an improved patient experience that is personalized and holistic and delivered in all care settings, including in-home and virtually. Those who provide care: pharmacies, hospitals, physicians and other health care facilities seeking to improve the health system and reduce the administrative burden allowing for providers to focus time on patients leading to the best possible patient care and experiences while achieving better health outcomes at lower costs. Improved health outcomes are achieved by leveraging our clinical expertise, data and analytics to better predict, prevent and intercept consumers health conditions and ensure they receive the best evidence-based care. Those who pay for care: employers; health plans; and state, federal and municipal agencies devoted to ensuring the populations they sponsor receive high-quality care, administered and delivered efficiently and effectively, all while driving health equity so that every individual, family and community has access to the care they need. 1 Table of Contents Those who innovate for care: global life sciences organizations dedicated to developing more effective approaches to care, enabling technologies and medicines to improve care delivery and health outcomes. Optum operates three business segments leveraging distinctive capabilities in health care delivery, population health, health care operations, data and analytics and pharmacy care services: Optum Health delivers care, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services; Optum Insight offers data, analytics, research, consulting, technology and managed services solutions; and Optum Rx provides a diversified array of pharmacy care services. Optum Health Optum Health provides health and wellness care, addressing the physical, emotional and health-related financial needs of 100 million consumers, through a national health care delivery platform which engages people in the most appropriate care settings, including clinical sites, in-home and virtual. Optum Health delivers local primary, in-home, specialty, surgical and urgent care; helps patients and providers navigate and address complex, chronic and behavioral health needs; offers post-acute care planning services; and serves consumers and care providers through advanced, on-demand digital health technologies, such as telehealth and remote patient monitoring, and innovative health care financial services. Optum Health works directly with consumers, care delivery systems, providers, employers, payers, and government entities to provide high quality accessible and equitable care with improved outcomes and reduced total cost of care. Optum Health enables care providers to transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to performance-based delivery and payment models designed to improve patient health outcomes and experience through value-based care. Through strategic partnerships, alliances and ownership arrangements, Optum Health helps care providers adopt new approaches and technologies improving the coordination of care across providers to serve patients more comprehensively. Optum Health offers its products on a risk basis, assuming responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a monthly premium, on an administrative fee basis, managing or administering products and services in exchange for a monthly fee, and on a fee-for-service basis, delivering medical services to patients in exchange for a contracted fee. Optum Financial, including Optum Bank, serves consumers through 8 million health savings and other accounts and has more than $19 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2021. During 2021, Optum Financial processed $264 billion in digital medical payments to physicians and other health care providers. Organizations across the health system rely on Optum Financial to manage and improve payment flows through its highly automated, scalable, digital payment systems. For financial services offerings, Optum Health charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds. Optum Health sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three key areas: employers, including large, mid-sized and small employers; payers including health plans, third-party administrators (TPAs), underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual product intermediaries; and government entities including the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Veterans Affairs, Defense, and other federal, state and local health care agencies. Optum Insight Optum Insight connects the health care system with services, analytics and platforms that make clinical, administrative and financial processes easier for all participants in the health care system. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, state governments, life sciences companies and other organizations comprising the health care industry depend on Optum Insight to help them improve performance, reduce costs, advance quality, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system. Optum Insight serves the needs of health systems (such as physicians and hospital systems), health plans, state governments and life sciences companies. Health Systems. Serves hospitals, physicians and other care providers to improve revenue and growth, better coordinate care and reduce administrative costs through technology and services to improve population health management, patient engagement, revenue cycle management and strategic growth plans. Health Plans. Serves health plans by improving financial performance and enhancing outcomes through proactive analytics, a comprehensive payment integrity portfolio and technology-enabled and staff-supported risk and quality services. Optum Insight helps health plans navigate a dynamic environment defined by shifts in employer vs. government-sponsored coverage, the demand for affordable benefit plans and the need to leverage new technology to reduce complexity. State Governments. Provides advanced technology and analytics services to modernize the administration of critical safety net programs, such as Medicaid, while improving cost predictability. 2 Table of Contents Life Sciences Companies. Combines data and analytics expertise with comprehensive technologies and health care knowledge to help life sciences companies, including those in pharmaceuticals and medical technology, adopt a more comprehensive approach to advancing therapeutic discoveries and improving clinical outcomes. Many of Optum Insight s software and information products and professional services are delivered over extended periods, often several years. Optum Insight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience with Optum Insight s customers. Optum Insight s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2021 was approximately $22.4 billion, of which $12.1 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. The aggregate backlog includes $8.9 billion related to affiliated agreements. Optum Insight s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2020, was $20.2 billion. Optum Insight s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. Optum Insight s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliances and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface Optum Insight s products with their applications. Optum Rx Optum Rx provides a full spectrum of pharmacy care services through its network of more than 67,000 retail pharmacies, through home delivery, specialty and community health pharmacies and through the provision of in-home and community-based infusion services. It also offers a direct-to-consumer business. Optum Rx manages a broad range of prescription drug spend, including widely available retail drugs as well as limited and ultra-limited distribution drugs in oncology, HIV, pain management and ophthalmology. Optum Rx serves the growing pharmacy needs of people with behavioral health and substance use disorders. In 2021, Optum Rx managed $112 billion in pharmaceutical spending, including $45 billion in specialty pharmaceutical spending. Optum Rx serves health benefits providers, large national employer plans, unions and trusts, purchasing coalitions and government entities. Optum Rx s sales distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and other health care consultants and direct sales. Optum Rx offers multiple clinical programs, digital tools and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner which are designed to promote better health outcomes, and to help target inappropriate utilization and non-adherence to medication. Optum Rx provides various utilization management, medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement each client s plan design and clinical strategies. Optum Rx offers a distinctive approach to integrating the management of medical and pharmaceutical care by using data and advanced analytics to help improve comprehensive decision-making, elevate quality, close gaps in care and reduce costs for customers and people served. UnitedHealthcare Through its health benefits offerings, UnitedHealthcare is enabling better health, creating a better health care experience for its customers and helping to control rising health care costs. UnitedHealthcare s market position is built on: strong local-market relationships; the breadth of product offerings, based upon extensive expertise in distinct market segments in health care; service and advanced technology, including digital consumer engagement; competitive medical and operating cost positions; effective clinical engagement; and innovation for customers and consumers. UnitedHealthcare uses Optum s capabilities to help coordinate and provide patient care, improve affordability of medical care, analyze cost trends, manage pharmacy care services, work with care providers more effectively and create a simpler and more satisfying consumer and physician experience. In the United States, UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks which, as of December 31, 2021, include 1.5 million physicians and other health care professionals and more than 7,000 hospitals and other facilities. UnitedHealthcare is subject to extensive government regulation. See further discussion of our regulatory environment below under Government Regulation and in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 3 Table of Contents UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services nationwide for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses, and individual consumers. As of December 31, 2021, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual provides access to medical services for 26.6 million people on behalf of our customers and alliance partners, including employer customers, serving people across all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. Products are offered through affiliates licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or TPAs. Large employer groups typically use self-funded arrangements where UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual earns a service fee. Smaller employer groups and individuals are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or unable to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures. Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium which is typically a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers who elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees dependents, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual receives a fixed monthly service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees dependents, while UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual provides services such as coordination and facilitation of medical and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, administration of transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision professionals. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals served by UnitedHealth Group makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals and facilities. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual has relationships with network care providers who integrate data and analytics, implement value-based payment arrangements and care management programs that enable us to jointly better manage health care and improve quality across populations. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s comprehensive and integrated pharmacy care services promote lower costs by using formulary programs to produce better unit costs, encouraging consumers to use drugs offering improved value and outcomes, helping consumers take actions to improve their health and supporting the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence through physician and consumer education programs. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual typically distributes its products through a variety of channels, dependent upon the specific product, including: through consultants or direct sales, in collaboration with brokers and agents, through wholesale agents or agencies who contract with health insurance carriers to distribute individual or group benefits, through professional employer organizations and associations and through both multi-carrier and its own proprietary private exchange marketplaces. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s diverse product portfolio offers employers a continuum of benefit designs, price points and approaches to consumer engagement which provides the flexibility to meet a full spectrum of their coverage needs. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s major product families include consumer engagement products, such as high-deductible consumer driven benefit plans and a variety of innovative consumer centric products; traditional products; clinical and pharmacy products; and specialty benefits, such as vision, dental, hearing, accident protection, critical illness, disability and hospital indemnity offerings. Each medical plan has a core set of clinical programs embedded in the offering, with additional services available depending on offering type (risk-based or self-funded), line of business (such as small business, key accounts, public sector, national accounts or individual consumers) and clinical need. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s clinical programs include: wellness programs, decision support, utilization management, case and disease management, complex condition management, on-site programs, incentives to reinforce positive behavior change, mental health/substance use disorder management and employee assistance programs. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services, as well as services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues common among older people. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement is fully dedicated to serving this growing market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement has distinct benefit designs, pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to health products and services in this market. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offers a selection of products allowing people choice in obtaining the health coverage and services they need as their circumstances change. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement is positioned to serve seniors who find affordable, network-based care provided through Medicare Advantage plans to meet their unique health care needs. For those who prefer traditional fee-for-service Medicare, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offers both Medicare 4 Table of Contents Supplement and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit (Medicare Part D) programs to expand their government-sponsored Medicare by providing additional benefits and coverage options. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offerings include care management and health system navigator services, clinical management programs, nurse health line services, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients, including AARP, the nation s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, and state and U.S. government agencies. Products are also offered through agents, employer groups and digital channels. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement s major product categories include: Medicare Advantage. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries through the Medicare Advantage program administered by the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS), including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and Special Needs Plans (SNPs). Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health insurance coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS plus, in some cases, monthly consumer premiums. Premium amounts received from CMS vary based on the geographic areas in which individuals reside; demographic factors such as age, gender and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. Medicare Advantage plans are designed to compete at the local level, taking into account consumer and care provider preferences, competitor offerings, our quality and cost initiatives, our historical financial results and the long-term payment rate outlook for each geographic area. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement served 6.5 million people through its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2021. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement s senior-focused care management model operates at a medical cost level below traditional Medicare, while helping seniors live healthier lives. We have continued to enhance our offerings, focusing on more digital and physical care resources in the home, expanding our concierge navigation services and enabling the home as a safe and effective setting of care. For example, through our HouseCalls program, nurse practitioners performed more than 2.1 million clinical preventive home care visits in 2021 to address unmet care opportunities and close gaps in care. Our Navigate4Me program provides a single point of contact and a direct line of support for individuals as they go through their health care experiences. For high-risk patients in certain care settings and programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement uses proprietary, automated medical record software and digital therapeutics for remote monitoring enabling clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care information bridging capabilities across home, hospital and nursing home care settings. Proprietary predictive modeling tools help identify people at high risk and enable care managers to create individualized care plans to help them obtain the right care, in the right place, at the right time. Medicare Part D. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides Medicare Part D benefits to beneficiaries through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Medicare Part D plans. The stand-alone Medicare Part D plans address a large spectrum of people s needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low-cost prescription options. Each of the plans includes the majority of the drugs covered by Medicare and provides varying levels of coverage to meet the diverse needs of Medicare beneficiaries. As of December 31, 2021, UnitedHealthcare enrolled 9.5 million people in the Medicare Part D programs, including 3.7 million individuals in stand-alone Medicare Part D plans, with the remainder in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Medicare Part D coverage. Medicare Supplement. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement is currently serving 4.4 million seniors nationwide through various Medicare Supplement products in association with AARP. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offers a full range of supplemental products at diverse price points. These products cover various levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps to which seniors are exposed in the traditional Medicare program. Premium revenues from CMS represented 36% of UnitedHealth Group s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement. UnitedHealthcare Community State UnitedHealthcare Community State is dedicated to serving state programs caring for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage, typically in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the state program. UnitedHealthcare Community State s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, including Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF); Children s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP); Dual SNPs (DSNPs); Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS); Aged, Blind and Disabled; and other federal, state and community health care programs. As of December 31, 2021, UnitedHealthcare Community State participated in programs in 32 states and the District of Columbia, and served 7.7 million people; including nearly 1.4 million people through Medicaid expansion programs in 18 states under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). 5 Table of Contents States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans by using a formal bid process or by awarding individual contracts. A number of factors are considered by UnitedHealthcare Community State when choosing programs for participation, including the state s commitment and consistency of support for its Medicaid managed care program in terms of service, innovation and funding; the eligible population base, both immediate and long term; and the structure of the projected program. UnitedHealthcare Community State works with its state customers to advocate for actuarially sound rates, commensurate with medical cost trends. These health plans and care programs are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, people with disabilities and people with a higher risk of medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community State administers benefits for the unique needs of children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and those who are institutionalized or are nursing home eligible. These individuals often live in medically underserved areas and are less likely to have a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider. They also often face significant social and economic challenges. UnitedHealthcare Community State leverages the national capabilities of UnitedHealth Group locally, supporting effective care management, strong regulatory partnerships, greater administrative efficiency, improved clinical outcomes and the ability to adapt to a changing national and local market environment. UnitedHealthcare Community State coordinates resources among family, physicians, other health care providers, and government and community-based agencies and organizations to facilitate continuous and effective care and often addresses other social determinants affecting people s health status and health system usage. Although approximately 80% of the people in state Medicaid programs are served by managed care, there remains significant growth opportunity as this population represents only approximately 55% of total Medicaid spending. UnitedHealthcare Community State s business development opportunities include entering fee-for-service markets converting to managed care; and growing in existing managed care markets, including state expansions to populations with more complex needs requiring more sophisticated models of care, including DSNP and LTSS programs. Our offerings to state expansion cover more medically complex populations, including integrated care management of physical, behavioral, long-term care services and supports, and social services by applying strong data analytics and community-based collaboration. UnitedHealthcare Community State continues to evolve its clinical model t