Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9B. Other Information 70 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 71 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 71 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 71 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 72 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 81 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION Overview UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health care company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and helping make the health system work better for everyone. The terms we, our, us, its, UnitedHealth Group, or the Company used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in data and health information, advanced technology, and clinical expertise, focused on improving health outcomes, lowering health care costs and creating a better experience for patients, their caregivers and physicians. These core competencies are deployed within our two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum. UnitedHealthcare provides health care benefits to an array of customers and markets. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, public sector employers and individual consumers. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits for Medicare beneficiaries and retirees. UnitedHealthcare Community State manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants. UnitedHealthcare Global provides health and dental benefits and hospital and clinical services to employer groups and individuals in South America, and other diversified global health businesses. Optum is a health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, governments, life sciences companies and consumers, through its OptumHealth, OptumInsight and OptumRx businesses. These businesses have dedicated units that help improve overall health system performance through optimizing care quality, reducing costs and improving consumer experience and care provider performance, leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, population health, health care delivery and health care operations. Through UnitedHealthcare and Optum, in 2019, we processed nearly a trillion dollars in gross billed charges and we managed more than $250 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the customers and consumers we serve. Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology, consulting and managed outsourced services; sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad health care industry; and investment and other income. Our two business platforms have four reportable segments: UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community State and UnitedHealthcare Global; OptumHealth; OptumInsight; and OptumRx. UnitedHealthcare Through its health benefits offerings, UnitedHealthcare is enabling better health, helping to control rising health care costs and creating a better health care experience for its customers. UnitedHealthcare s market position is built on: strong local-market relationships; the breadth of product offerings, based upon extensive expertise in distinct market segments in health care; service and advanced technology, including digital consumer engagement; competitive medical and operating cost positions; effective clinical engagement; and innovation for customers and consumers. UnitedHealthcare utilizes Optum s capabilities to help coordinate and provide patient care, improve affordability of medical care, analyze cost trends, manage pharmacy benefits, work with care providers more effectively and create a simpler and more satisfying consumer experienc e. In the United States, UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks that include 1.4 million physicians and other health care professionals and more than 6,500 hospitals and other facilities. 1 Table of Contents UnitedHealthcare is subject to extensive government regulation. See further discussion of our regulatory environment below under Government Regulation and in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services nationwide for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses, and individual consumers. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual provides access to medical services for 27.8 million people on behalf of our customers and alliance partners, including employer customers, serving people across all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. Products are offered through affiliates that are licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third-party administrators (TPAs). Large employer groups typically use self-funded arrangements where UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual earns a service fee. Smaller employer groups and individuals are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or unable to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures. Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers that elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees dependents, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual receives a fixed monthly service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees dependents, while UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual provides services such as coordination and facilitation of medical and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, administration of transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals served by UnitedHealth Group makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals and facilities. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual has relationships with network care providers that integrate data and analytics, implement value-based payments and care management programs and enable us to jointly better manage health care and improve quality across populations. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual typically distributes its products through consultants or direct sales in the larger employer and public sector segments. In the smaller group segment of the commercial marketplace, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s distribution system consists primarily of direct sales and sales through collaboration with brokers and agents. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual also distributes products through wholesale agents or agencies that contract with health insurance carriers to distribute individual or group benefits and provide other related services to their customers. In addition, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual distributes its products through professional employer organizations, associations and through both multi-carrier and its own proprietary private exchange marketplaces. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s diverse product portfolio offers employers a continuum of benefit designs, price points and approaches to consumer engagement, which provides the flexibility to meet a full spectrum of their coverage needs. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s major product families include: Traditional Products. Traditional products include a full range of medical benefits and network options, and offer a spectrum of covered services, including preventive care, direct access to specialists and catastrophic protection. Consumer Engagement Products. Consumer engagement products couple plan design with financial accounts to increase individuals responsibility for their health and well-being. This suite of products includes high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans, which include health reimbursement accounts (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs) and consumer engagement services such as personalized behavioral incentive programs, consumer education and other digital offerings. We also offer and have been developing a variety of innovative consumer-centric products that align to the unique needs and financial means of our customers, while engaging individuals in better managing their health. Clinical and Pharmacy Products. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual offers a comprehensive suite of clinical and pharmacy care services products, which complement its service offerings by improving quality of care, engaging consumers and providing cost-saving options. Consumers served by UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual can access clinical products that help them make better health care decisions and better use of their medical benefits, which contribute to improved health and lowered medical expenses. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s comprehensive and integrated pharmacy care services promote lower costs by using formulary programs to produce better unit costs, encouraging consumers to use drugs that offer improved value and outcomes, helping consumers take actions to improve their health and supporting the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence through physician and consumer education programs. 2 Table of Contents Each medical plan has a core set of clinical programs embedded in the offering, with additional services available depending on offering type (risk-based or self-funded), line of business (e.g., small business, key accounts, public sector, national accounts or individual consumers) and clinical need. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s clinical programs include: wellness programs; decision support; utilization management; case and disease management; complex condition management; on-site programs, including biometrics and flu shots; incentives to reinforce positive behavior change; mental health/substance use disorder management; and employee assistance programs. Specialty Offerings . Through its broad network, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual delivers dental, vision, hearing, life, transportation, critical illness, specified disease/sickness, accident and short-term disability product offerings using an integrated approach in private and retail settings. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services, as well as services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues common among older people. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement is fully dedicated to serving this growing senior market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to health products and services in this market. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offers a selection of products that allow people choice in obtaining the health coverage and services they need as their circumstances change. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement is positioned to serve seniors who find that affordable, network-based care provided through Medicare Advantage plans meets their unique health care needs. For those who prefer traditional fee-for-service Medicare, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offers both Medicare Supplement and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit (Medicare Part D) programs that supplement their government-sponsored Medicare by providing additional benefits and coverage options. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement services include care management and health system navigator services, clinical management programs, nurse health line services, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients, including AARP, the nation s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, and state and U.S. government agencies. Products are also offered through agents, employer groups and digital channels. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement s major product categories include: Medicare Advantage. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS), including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and Special Needs Plans (SNPs). Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health insurance coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS plus, in some cases, monthly consumer premiums. Premium amounts received from CMS vary based on the geographic areas in which individuals reside; demographic factors such as age, gender and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. Medicare Advantage plans are designed to compete at the local level, taking into account consumer and care provider preferences, competitor offerings, our quality and cost initiatives, our historical financial results and the long-term payment rate outlook for each geographic area. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement served 5.3 million people through its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2019. Built on more than 20 years of experience, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement s senior-focused care management model operates at a medical cost level below that of traditional Medicare, while helping seniors live healthier lives. Through our HouseCalls program, nurse practitioners performed 1.7 million in-home preventive care visits in 2019 to address unmet care 3 Table of Contents opportunities and close gaps in care. Our Navigate4Me program provides a single point of contact and a direct line of support for individuals as they go through their health care experiences. For high-risk patients in certain care settings and programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement uses proprietary, automated medical record software and digital therapeutics for remote monitoring that enables clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings. Proprietary predictive modeling tools help identify people at high risk and enable care managers to create individualized care plans that help them obtain the right care, in the right place, at the right time. Medicare Part D. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides Medicare Part D benefits to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Medicare Part D plans. The stand-alone Medicare Part D plans address a large spectrum of people s needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low-cost prescription options. Each of the plans includes the majority of the drugs covered by Medicare and provides varying levels of coverage to meet the diverse needs of Medicare beneficiaries. As of December 31, 2019, UnitedHealthcare enrolled 9.0 million people in the Medicare Part D programs, including 4.4 million individuals in the stand-alone Medicare Part D plans, with the remainder in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Medicare Part D coverage. Medicare Supplement. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement is currently serving 4.8 million seniors nationwide through various Medicare Supplement products in association with AARP. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offers a full range of supplemental products at a diversity of price points. These products cover various levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps that seniors are exposed to in the traditional Medicare program. Premium revenues from CMS represented 33% of UnitedHealth Group s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement. UnitedHealthcare Community State UnitedHealthcare Community State is dedicated to serving state programs that care for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage, typically in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the state program. UnitedHealthcare Community State s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, including Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF), Children s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP), Dual SNPs (DSNPs), Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS), Aged, Blind and Disabled and other federal, state and community health care programs. As of December 31, 2019, UnitedHealthcare Community State participated in programs in 31 states and the District of Columbia, and served 5.9 million people; including nearly 1 million people through Medicaid expansion programs in 15 states under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans by using a formal bid process or by awarding individual contracts. A number of factors are considered by UnitedHealthcare Community State when choosing programs for participation, including the state s commitment and consistency of support for its Medicaid managed care program in terms of service, innovation and funding; the eligible population base, both immediate and long term; and the structure of the projected program. UnitedHealthcare Community State works with its state customers to advocate for actuarially sound rates, commensurate with medical cost trends. These health plans and care programs are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, people with disabilities and people with a higher risk of medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community State administers benefits for the unique needs of children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and those who are institutionalized or are nursing home eligible. These individuals often live in areas that are medically underserved and are less likely to have a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider. They also often face significant social and economic challenges. UnitedHealthcare Community State leverages the national capabilities of UnitedHealth Group locally, supporting effective care management, strong regulatory partnerships, greater administrative efficiency, improved clinical outcomes and the ability to adapt to a changing national and local market environment. UnitedHealthcare Community State coordinates resources among family, physicians, other health care providers, and government and community-based agencies and organizations to facilitate continuous and effective care and often addresses other social determinants that can affect people s health status and health system usage. Approximately 75% of the people in state Medicaid programs are served by managed care, but this population represents only 50% of total Medicaid spending. UnitedHealthcare Community State s business development opportunities include entering fee-for-service markets converting to managed care; and growing in existing managed care markets, including state expansions to populations with more complex needs requiring more sophisticated models of care, including DSNP and LTSS programs. This expansion includes integrated care management of physical, behavioral, long-term care services and supports, and social services by applying strong data analytics and community-based collaboration. 4 Table of Contents UnitedHealthcare Community State continues to evolve its clinical model to enhance quality and the clinical experience for the people it serves. The model enables UnitedHealthcare Community State to quickly identify the people who could benefit most from more highly coordinated care; typically, the 5% who are most at risk drive over 50% of states medical costs. UnitedHealthcare Global UnitedHealthcare Global serves nearly 8 million people with medical and dental benefits, residing principally in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru, but also in more than 140 other countries. UnitedHealthcare Global serves multinational and local businesses, governments, insurers and individuals and their families through health insurance plans for local populations, care delivery services, benefit plans and risk and assistance solutions. UnitedHealthcare Global offers health care delivery in these markets through more than 300 hospitals, outpatient and ambulatory clinics and surgery centers to UnitedHealthcare Global members and consumers served by the external payer market. In Brazil, Amil provides health benefits to 3.6 million people and dental benefits to 2.2 million people. Empresas Banm dica provides health benefits and health care services to 2.1 million people in Chile, Colombia and Peru. Lus adas Sa de provides clinical services to people in Portugal through an owned network of hospitals and outpatient clinics. Optum Optum is a technology-enabled health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including: Those who need care: the consumers who need the right support, information, resources and products to achieve their health goals. Those who provide care: pharmacies, hospitals, physicians, practices and other health care facilities seeking to modernize the health system and support the best possible patient care and experiences. Those who pay for care: employers, health plans, and state, federal and municipal agencies devoted to ensuring the populations they sponsor receive high-quality care, administered and delivered efficiently and effectively. Those who innovate for care: global life sciences organizations dedicated to developing more effective approaches to care, enabling technologies and medicines that improve care delivery and health outcomes. Optum operates three business segments leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, population health, health care delivery and health care operations: OptumHealth focuses on care delivery, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services; OptumInsight offers data, analytics, research, consulting, technology and managed services solutions; and OptumRx provides a diversified array of pharmacy care services. OptumHealth OptumHealth is a diversified health and wellness business serving the physical, emotional and health-related financial needs of 96 million unique individuals. OptumHealth enables population health through programs offered by employers, payers, government entities and directly with the care delivery system. OptumHealth products and services deliver value by improving quality and patient satisfaction while lowering cost. OptumHealth builds high-performing networks and centers of excellence across the care continuum, by working directly with physicians to advance population health and by coordinating care for the most medically complex patients. OptumHealth serves patients and care providers through its local ambulatory care services business and delivers care through a physician-led, patient-centric and data-driven organization comprised of nearly 50,000 employed, managed or contracted physicians, helping improve care quality, affordability and patient experience. OptumHealth also enables care providers transition from traditional, fee-for-service care delivery to performance-based delivery and payment models that improve the focus on patient health and outcomes, such as those emerging through accountable care organizations (ACOs) and local care provider partnerships. Through strategic partnerships, alliances and ownership arrangements, OptumHealth helps care providers adopt new approaches and technologies that improve the coordination of care across all providers involved in patient care to more comprehensively serve patients. Surgical Care Affiliates independent ambulatory surgical centers and surgical hospitals provide high-value surgical services at a substantially lower cost than a traditional in-patient hospital setting and MedExpress neighborhood care centers provide urgent and walk-in care services with a consumer-friendly approach. OptumServe provides a wide range of health services specifically tailored to active military and veterans and the agencies that support them. OptumHealth serves people through population health services that meet both the preventive care and health intervention needs of consumers across the care continuum, encompassing physical health and wellness, mental health, complex medical 5 Table of Contents conditions, disease management, hospitalization and post-acute care. This includes offering access to proprietary networks of provider specialists, including behavioral health, organ transplant, chiropractic and physical therapy. OptumHealth engages consumers in managing their health through guidance, digital tools and programs that help them achieve their health goals and maintain healthy lifestyles. Optum Financial Services, through Optum Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary, serves consumers through 5.6 million health savings and other accounts and has nearly $12 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2019. During 2019, Optum Bank processed $170 billion in digital medical payments to physicians and other health care providers. Organizations across the health system rely on Optum to manage and improve payment flows through its highly automated, scalable, digital payment systems. OptumHealth offers its products on a risk basis, where it assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a monthly premium per individual served, on an administrative fee basis, under which it manages or administers delivery of the products or services in exchange for a fixed monthly fee per individual served, or on a fee-for-service basis, where it delivers medical services to patients in exchange for a contracted fee. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds. OptumHealth sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three markets: employers (which includes the sub-markets of large, mid-sized and small employers), payers (which includes the sub-markets of health plans, TPAs, underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual market intermediaries) and government entities (which includes states, CMS, the Department of Defense, the Veterans Administration and other federal procurement agencies). OptumInsight OptumInsight provides services, technology and health care expertise to major participants in the health care industry. OptumInsight s capabilities are focused on technology, research and consulting and managed services that help improve the quality of care and drive greater efficiency in the health care system. Technology includes population health and risk analytics, administrative and clinical technology for claims editing, risk adjustment and payment integrity, health information and electronic data exchange and technology strategy and management. Research and consulting helps organizations reduce administrative costs and implement best practices to improve clinical performance. Managed services provides solutions such as revenue cycle management, risk analytics, payment integrity outsourcing and state Medicaid data and technology management. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, governments, life sciences companies and other organizations that comprise the health care industry depend on OptumInsight to help them improve performance, achieve efficiency, reduce costs, advance quality, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet 