Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Reserved 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 Item 9B. Other Information 69 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 69 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 Part IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 79 Signatures 80 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR BUSINESSES Overview The terms we, our, us, its, UnitedHealth Group, or the Company used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries. UnitedHealth Group Incorporated is a health care and well-being company with a mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Our two distinct, yet complementary businesses Optum and UnitedHealthcare are working to help build a modern, high-performing health system through improved access, affordability, outcomes and experiences for the individuals and organizations we are privileged to serve. The ability to analyze complex data and apply deep health care expertise and insights allows us to serve patients, consumers, care providers, businesses, communities and governments with more innovative products and complete, end-to-end offerings for many of the biggest challenges facing health care today. Optum seeks to create a higher-performing, value-oriented and more connected approach to health care. Bringing together clinical expertise, technology and data to make care simpler, more effective and more affordable, we seek to advance whole-person health, creating a seamless consumer experience and supporting clinicians with insights to deliver personalized, evidence-based care. Optum serves the broad health care marketplace, including patients and consumers, payers, care providers, employers, governments and life sciences companies, through its Optum Health, Optum Insight and Optum Rx businesses. These businesses improve overall health system performance by optimizing health care quality and delivery, reducing costs and improving patient, consumer and provider experience, leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, health care operations, population health and health financial services. UnitedHealthcare offers a full range of health benefits designed to simplify the health care experience and make it more affordable for consumers to access high-quality care. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual serves consumers and employers, ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers and public sector employers. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits to seniors and other Medicare eligible consumers. UnitedHealthcare Community State serves consumers who are economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer sponsored health benefits coverage. We have four reportable segments: Optum Health; Optum Insight; Optum Rx; and UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community State. Optum Optum is an information and technology-enabled health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including: Those who need care: patients who need the right care, information, resources, products and engagement to improve their health, achieve their health goals and receive an improved patient experience that is personalized, comprehensive and delivered in all care settings, including in-home and virtually. Those who provide care: physicians, hospitals, pharmacies and others seeking to improve the health system and reduce the administrative burden allowing for providers to focus time on patients leading to the best possible patient care and experiences while achieving better health outcomes at lower costs. Improved health outcomes are achieved by utilizing our clinical expertise, data and analytics to better understand, treat and prevent consumers health conditions and ensure they receive the best evidence-based care. Those who pay for care: consumers; employers; health plans; and state, federal and municipal agencies devoted to ensuring the people they sponsor receive high-quality care, administered and delivered efficiently and effectively, all while driving health equity so that every individual, family and community has access to the care they need. Those who innovate for care: global life sciences organizations dedicated to developing more effective approaches to care, enabling technologies and medicines to improve care delivery and health outcomes. 1 Table of Contents Optum operates three business segments which combine distinctive capabilities in value-based care, population health, health care operations, data and analytics and pharmacy care services: Optum Health delivers patient-centered care, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services; Optum Insight offers data, analytics, research, consulting, technology and managed services solutions; and Optum Rx provides diversified pharmacy care services. Optum Health Optum Health provides comprehensive and patient-centered care, addressing the physical, mental, social, and financial well-being of 103 million consumers and serves more than 100 health payer partners. We engage people in the most appropriate care settings, including clinical sites, in-home and virtual. Optum Health delivers primary, specialty, surgical and urgent care; helps patients and providers navigate and address complex, chronic and behavioral health needs; offers post-acute care planning services; and serves consumers and care providers through advanced, on-demand digital health technologies, such as telehealth and remote patient monitoring, and innovative health care financial services. Optum Health works directly with patients, consumers, care delivery systems, providers, employers, payers, and public-sector entities to provide high quality, accessible and equitable care with improved health outcomes and reduced total cost of care. Optum Health enables care providers to transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to performance-based delivery and payment models designed to improve patient health outcomes and experience through value-based care. Optum Health offerings include fully accountable value-based arrangements, where Optum Health assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a monthly premium. Offerings also include administrative fee arrangements, where Optum Health manages or administers products and services in exchange for a monthly fee, and fee-for-service arrangements, where Optum Health delivers health-related products and medical services for patients at a contracted fee. Optum Financial, including Optum Bank, serves consumers through more than 24 million consumer accounts with nearly $22 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2023. Organizations across the health system rely on Optum Financial to manage and improve payment flows through its highly automated, scalable, end-to-end digital payment and financing systems and integrated card solutions. For financial services offerings, Optum Financial charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds. Optum Health sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three key areas: employers, including large, mid-sized and small employers; payers including health plans, third-party administrators (TPAs), underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual product intermediaries; and public entities including the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Veterans Affairs, Defense, and other federal, state and local health care agencies. Optum Insight Optum Insight connects the health care system with services, analytics and platforms that make clinical, administrative and financial processes simpler and more efficient for all participants in the health care system. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, public entities, life sciences companies and other organizations comprising the health care industry depend on Optum Insight to help them improve performance and reduce costs through administrative efficiency and payment simplification, advance care quality through evidence-based standards built directly into clinical workflows, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system. Health Systems. Serves hospitals, physicians and other care providers to improve operating performance, better coordinate care and reduce administrative costs through technology and services to improve population health management, patient engagement, revenue cycle management and strategic growth plans. Health Plans. Serves health plans by improving financial performance and enhancing outcomes through proactive analytics, a comprehensive payment integrity portfolio and technology-enabled and staff-supported risk and quality services. Optum Insight helps health plans navigate a dynamic environment defined by shifts in employer vs. public-sector coverage, the demand for affordable benefit plans and the need to leverage new technology to reduce complexity. State Governments. Provides advanced technology and analytics services to modernize the administration of critical safety net programs, such as Medicaid, while improving cost predictability. Life Sciences Companies. Combines data and analytics expertise with comprehensive technologies and health care knowledge to help life sciences companies, including those in pharmaceuticals and medical technology, adopt a more comprehensive approach to advancing therapeutic discoveries and improving clinical outcomes. Many of Optum Insight s software and information products and professional services are delivered over extended periods, often several years. Optum Insight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. 2 Table of Contents The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience with Optum Insight s customers. Optum Insight s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2023 was approximately $32.1 billion, of which $18.7 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. The aggregate backlog includes $11.9 billion related to affiliated agreements. Optum Insight s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2022, was $30.0 billion, including $10.7 billion related to affiliated agreements. Optum Insight s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. Optum Insight s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliances and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface Optum Insight s products with their applications. Optum Rx Optum Rx provides a full spectrum of pharmacy care services through its network of more than 65,000 retail pharmacies, through home delivery, specialty and community health pharmacies, the provision of in-home and community-based infusion services and through rare disease and gene therapy support services. It also offers direct-to-consumer solutions. Optum Rx manages a broad range of prescription drug spend, including widely available retail drugs as well as limited and ultra-limited distribution drugs in oncology, HIV, pain management and ophthalmology. Optum Rx serves the growing pharmacy needs of people with behavioral health and substance use disorders. In 2023, Optum Rx managed $159 billion in pharmaceutical spending, including $63 billion in specialty pharmaceutical spending. Optum Rx serves health benefits providers, large national employer plans, unions and trusts, purchasing coalitions and public-sector entities. Optum Rx sells its services through direct sales, health insurance brokers and other health care consultants. Optum Rx offers multiple clinical programs, digital tools and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner which are designed to deliver improved consumer experiences, better health outcomes and a lower total cost of care. Optum Rx provides various utilization management, medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement each client s plan design and clinical strategies. Optum Rx is accelerating the integration of medical, pharmacy and behavioral care and treating the whole patient by embedding our pharmacists as key members of the patient care team. UnitedHealthcare Through its health benefits offerings, UnitedHealthcare is enabling better health, creating a better health care experience for its customers and helping to control rising health care costs. UnitedHealthcare s market position is built on: strong local-market relationships; the breadth of product offerings, based upon extensive expertise in distinct market segments in health care; service and advanced technology, including digital consumer engagement; competitive medical and operating cost positions; effective clinical engagement; and innovation for customers and consumers. UnitedHealthcare uses Optum s capabilities to help coordinate and provide patient care, improve affordability of medical care, analyze cost trends, manage pharmacy care services, work with care providers more effectively and create a simpler and more satisfying consumer and physician experience. In the United States, UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks which, as of December 31, 2023, include 1.8 million physicians and other health care professionals and nearly 7,200 hospitals and other facilities. UnitedHealthcare is subject to extensive government regulation. See further discussion of our regulatory environment below under Government Regulation and in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual Domestically, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses, and individuals. As of December 31, 2023, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual provides access to medical services for 27.3 million people. Globally, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual serves 7.8 million people with medical and dental benefits, typically in exchange for a monthly premium per member, residing principally in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru, but also in more than 150 other countries. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual offers health care delivery in our principal global markets 3 Table of Contents through hospitals, outpatient and ambulatory clinics and surgery centers to UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual global members and consumers served by other payers. Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium which is typically a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. Through its administrative and other management services arrangements to customers who elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees dependents, UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual receives a fixed monthly service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees dependents, while UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual provides services such as coordination and facilitation of medical and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, administration of transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision professionals. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual is focused on providing informed benefit solutions that create customized plan designs and clinical programs for employers that contribute to well-being and reduce the total cost of care along with providing simpler consumer experiences in response to market dynamics. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual typically distributes its products through a variety of channels, dependent upon the specific product, including: through consultants or direct sales, in collaboration with brokers and agents, through wholesale agents or agencies who contract with health insurance carriers to distribute individual or group benefits, through professional employer organizations and associations and through both multi-carrier and its own proprietary private exchange marketplaces. UnitedHealthcare Employer Individual s major product families include consumer engagement products, such as high-deductible consumer driven benefit plans and a variety of innovative consumer centric products; traditional products; clinical and pharmacy products; and specialty benefits, such as vision, dental, hearing, accident protection, critical illness, disability and hospital indemnity offerings. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health and well-being services to seniors and other Medicare eligible consumers, addressing their unique needs. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement has distinct benefit designs, pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to health products and services in this market. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement offers a selection of products allowing people choice in obtaining the health coverage and services they need as their circumstances change. These offerings include care management and health system navigator services, clinical management programs, nurse health line services, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients, including AARP, the nation s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, and state and U.S. government agencies. Products are also offered through agents, employer groups and digital channels. Major product categories include: Medicare Advantage. Provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries through the Medicare Advantage program administered by the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS), including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and Special Needs Plans (SNPs). Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement provides health benefits coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS plus, in some cases, monthly consumer premiums. Premium amounts received from CMS vary based on the geographic areas in which individuals reside; demographic factors such as age, gender and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement served 7.7 million people through its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2023. We have continued to enhance our offerings, focusing on more digital and physical care resources in the home, expanding our concierge navigation services and enabling the home as a safe and effective setting of care. For example, through our HouseCalls program, nurse practitioners performed more than 2.7 million clinical preventive home care visits in 2023 to address unmet care opportunities and close gaps in care. Medicare Part D. Provides Medicare Part D benefits to beneficiaries through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Medicare Part D plans. The stand-alone Medicare Part D plans address a large spectrum of people s needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low-cost prescription options. As of December 31, 2023, UnitedHealthcare enrolled 10.2 million people in the Medicare Part D programs, including 3.3 million individuals in stand-alone Medicare Part D plans, with the remainder in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Medicare Part D coverage. Medicare Supplement. Provides a full range of supplemental products at diverse price points. These products cover various levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps to which seniors are exposed in the traditional Medicare program. UnitedHealthcare 4 Table of Contents Medicare Retirement served 4.4 million seniors nationwide through various Medicare Supplement products in association with AARP as of December 31, 2023. Premium revenues from CMS represented 40% of UnitedHealth Group s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare Retirement. UnitedHealthcare Community State UnitedHealthcare Community State is dedicated to serving state programs caring for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage, typically in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the state program. UnitedHealthcare Community State s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, including Temporary Assistance to Needy Families; Children s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP); Dual SNPs (DSNPs); Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS); Aged, Blind and Disabled; and other federal, state and community health care programs. As of December 31, 2023, UnitedHealthcare Community State participated in programs in 32 states and the District of Columbia, and served more than 7.8 million people; including 1.3 million people through Medicaid expansion programs in 19 states under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans by using a formal bid process or by awarding individual contracts. These health plans and care programs are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, people with disabilities and people with a higher risk of medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community State administers benefits for the unique needs of children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and those who are institutionalized or are nursing home eligible. These individuals often live in medically underserved areas and are less likely to have a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider. They also often face significant social and economic challenges. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our businesses are subject to comprehensive U.S. federal and state and international laws and regulations. We are regulated by agencies which generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. U.S. federal and state and international governments continue to consider and enact various legislative and regulatory proposals which could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, including as a result of changes in the political environment, could adversely affect our businesses. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks related to our compliance with U.S. federal and state and international laws and regulations. U.S. Federal Laws and Regulation When we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare businesses and certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Payments by CMS to our businesses are subject to regulations, including those governing fee-for-service and the submission of information relating to the health status of enrollees for purposes of determining the amounts of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit our performance to determine our compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care we provide to Medicare beneficiaries. Our commercial business is further subject to CMS audits related to medical loss ratios (MLRs) and risk adjustment data. UnitedHealthcare Community State has Medicaid and CHIP contracts, which are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid compliance, and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs is complex. Our businesses are also subject to laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriate reduction or limitation of health care services, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust compliance. Privacy, Security and Data Standards Regulation. Certain of our operations are subject to regulation under the administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), which apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. Federal regulations related to HIPAA contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets and for the privacy and security of protected health information. Our businesses must comply with the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) which regulates matters relating to privacy, security and data standards. HITECH imposes requirements on uses and disclosures of 5 Table of Contents health information; includes contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; extends parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates; adds federal data breach notification requirements for covered entities and business associates and reporting requirements to HHS and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and, in some cases, to the local media; strengthens enforcement and imposes higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposes criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. In the conduct of our business, depending on the circumstances, we may act as either a covered entity or a business associate. The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses are also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA. These federal laws and state statutes generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to opt out of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and generally prescribe safeguards for the protection of personal information. Neither the GLBA nor HIPAA privacy regulations preempt more stringent state laws and regulations, which may apply to us, as discussed below. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information. ERISA. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how our services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) as well as the federal courts. ERISA sets forth standards on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee health benefit plans, particularly those who maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL subject us to additional requirements for administration of benefits, claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. State Laws and Regulation Health Care Regulation. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. The states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has adopted model regulations, which require expanded governance practices and risk and solvency assessment reporting. Most states have adopted these or similar measures to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. We are required to maintain a risk management framework and file a confidential self-assessment report with state insur