Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 16 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries 22 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [Reserved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Critical Accounting Estimates 24 Cautionary Information 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 72 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 72 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 72 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 73 Item 9B. Other Information 74 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 74 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 74 Item 11. Executive Compensation 74 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 75 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 75 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 75 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 75 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 79 Signatures 80 Certifications 81 2 Table of Contents February 9, 2024 Fellow Shareholders : As Union Pacific shareholders, we own a piece of history. Over the course of 161 years, our Company is built to handle inevitable changes and challenges of business cycles while seeking ways to innovate and grow. 2023 was no different. This year, I assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer, and Lance Fritz retired after a distinguished career. At that time, we also split the roles of Chairman and CEO and Mike McCarthy, was named Chairman of the Board of Directors. The transition was seamless, a credit to the Board, Lance, and the management team. Since becoming CEO, I have focused the team on a multi-year strategy of Safety + Service Operational Excellence = Growth. Safety must always be our first area of focus, returning everyone home safely each day. Service is all about delivering what we sold our customers, committing to what we can do and doing it with excellence. Operational Excellence is about operating efficiently and productively while maintaining a buffer to handle ups and downs of railroading. In the second half of 2023, we achieved great momentum as the team united to deliver a shared strategy. Our fourth quarter operating metrics were the best of the year. We exited the year with a stronger service product and fluid network. Our Fourth Quarter financial results also demonstrated momentum as we achieved sequential quarterly margin improvement. For 2023, we reported earnings per diluted share of $10.45, a 7% decrease versus 2022, reflecting 1% lower volumes and an operating ratio increase of 220 basis points. To support our service product and growth, we invested $3.7 billion back into our network. Soft consumer markets, continued inflationary pressures, and new labor agreements all impacted financial results. As we turn the page to 2024, we are looking at the opportunities ahead. The entire Union Pacific team is focused on being the industry s best in safety, service, and operational excellence. That strategy leads to long-term growth and provides you with industry-leading returns on your investment. It s how we win. We understand that we hold the keys to an iconic company that helped Build America. We are propelled by that history and recognize we have an important responsibility to deliver for our stakeholders. We are grateful for this opportunity and thank you for your ownership of Union Pacific Chief Executive Officer 3 Table of Contents DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS William J. DeLaney Former Chief Executive Officer - Sysco Corporation Board Committees: Compensation and Benefits (Chair); Safety and Service Quality David B. Dillon Former Chairman and CEO - The Kroger Company Board Committees: Audit (Chair); Corporate Governance, Nominating, and Sustainability Sheri H. Edison Former Executive Vice President and General Counsel - Amcor plc Board Committees: Compensation and Benefits; Corporate Governance, Nominating, and Sustainability (Chair) Teresa M. Finley Former Chief Marketing and Business Services Officer - United Parcel Service, Inc. Board Committees: Audit; Finance Deborah C. Hopkins Former Chief Executive Officer - Citi Ventures and Former Chief Innovation Officer - Citi Board Committees: Compensation and Benefits; Finance (Chair) Jane H. Lute Strategic Advisor - SICPA, North America Board Committees: Audit; Safety and Service Quality (Chair) Michael R. McCarthy Chairman - Union Pacific Corporation and Union Pacific Railroad Company; Chairman - McCarthy Group, LLC; and Co-Chairman - Bridges Trust Company Board Committees: Corporate Governance, Nominating, and Sustainability; Finance Doyle R. Simons Former President and CEO - Weyerhaeuser Company Board Committees: Compensation and Benefits; Safety and Service Quality John K. Tien, Jr. Former Deputy Secretary - U.S. Department of Homeland Security Board Committees: Pending Assignment V. James Vena Chief Executive Officer - Union Pacific Corporation and Union Pacific Railroad Company John P. Wiehoff Former Chairman, President, and CEO - C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. Board Committees: Audit; Safety and Service Quality Christopher J. Williams Chairman - Siebert Williams Shank Co. Board Committees: Audit; Finance SENIOR MANAGEMENT V. James Vena Chief Executive Officer Prentiss W. Bolin, Jr. Vice President - External Relations Bryan L. Clark Vice President - Tax Eric J. Gehringer* Executive Vice President - Operations Rebecca B. Gregory* Vice President and Chief of Staff Jennifer L. Hamann Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Rahul Jalali Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Michael V. Miller Vice President and Treasurer Craig V. Richardson Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Corporate Secretary Kenny G. Rocker* Executive Vice President - Marketing and Sales Todd M. Rynaski Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting, Risk, and Compliance Officer Elizabeth F. Whited President *For Union Pacific Railroad Company only. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business GENERAL Union Pacific Railroad Company is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation. One of America's most recognized companies, Union Pacific Railroad Company connec ts 23 sta tes in the western two-thirds of the country by rail, providing a critical link in the global supply chain. The Railroad s diversified business mix includes Bulk, Industrial, and Premium. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers, operates from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to Eastern gateways, connects with Canada's rail systems, and is the only railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways. Union Pacific provides value to its roughly 10,000 customers by delivering products in a safe, reliable, fuel-efficient, and environmentally responsible manner. Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179. The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol UNP . For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to "Union Pacific", UPC , Corporation , Company , we , us , and our shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as UPRR or the Railroad . STRATEGY Safety, Service, and Operational Excellence supports the Company's long term initiative to Grow its freight volumes (Safety + Service Operational Excellence = Growth). Together as a team, the Company will focus on achieving the best safety record in the industry, being known for superior service, grounded in operational excellence which, in turn, drives growth. Safety is paramount and, as our first area of focus, sets the foundation for achieving the Company's objectives. The mindset and culture are built around a personal commitment by all employees to prioritize safety so everyone goes home safely. Service is all about delivering what we sold our customers. We work with our customers to understand the service they need to win in their markets and then drive how we win together. We commit to these service levels and do it with excellence. Operational Excellence is about operating efficiently and productively. We will drive value with our available resources, but also maintain a buffer so our service is resilient, managing the inevitable ups and downs that come with weather, fluctuating volumes, and securing growth. Execution of our strategy to be the industry leader in both safety and service leads to revenue growth with improved margins and greater cash generation, creating long term enterprise value. The result will be strong financial performance driving significant shareholder returns. As we work to transform our railroad, our core values continue to guide us. Our passion for performance will help us win; our high ethical standards ensure we win in a way that supports all of our stakeholders; and our teamwork ensures we win together. OPERATIONS The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide and analyze revenues by commodity group, we treat the financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. Additional information regarding our business and operations, including revenues, financial information and data, and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item 3; Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7; and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. 5 Table of Contents Operations UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 32,693 route miles, connecting Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and Eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican and Canadian gateways. We serve the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast, Pacific Coast, and East Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. In 2023 , we generated freight revenues totaling $22.6 billion from the following three commodity groups: 2023 Freight Revenues Bulk The Company's Bulk shipments consist of grain and grain products, fertilizer, food and refrigerated, and coal and renewables. In 2023, this group genera ted 33% of our freight revenues. We access most major grain markets, connecting the Midwest and Western U.S. producing areas to export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and Gulf Coast ports as well as Mexico. We also serve significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders, ethanol, and renewable biofuel producers in the Midwest and West. Fertilizer movements originate in the Gulf Coast region, Midwest, Western U.S., and Canada (through interline access) for delivery to major agricultural users in those areas as well as abroad. The Railroad s network supports the transportation of coal shipments to independent and regulated power companies and industrial facilities throughout the U.S. Through interchange gateways and ports, UPRR s reach extends to Eastern U.S. utilities as well as to Mexico and other international destinations. Coal traffic originating in the Powder River Basin (PRB) area of Wyoming is the largest portion of the Railroad s coal business. Renewable shipments for customers committed to sustainability consist primarily of biomass exports and wind turbine components. Industrial Our extensive network facilitates the movement of numerous commodities between thousands of origin and destination points throughout North America. The Industrial group consists of several categories, including construction, industrial chemicals, plastics, forest products, specialized products (primarily waste, salt, and roofing), metals and ores, petroleum, liquid petroleum gases (LPG), soda ash, and sand. Transportation of these products accounted for 36% of our freight revenues in 2023. Commercial, residential, and governmental infrastructure investments drive shipments of steel, aggregates, cement, and wood products. Industrial and light manufacturing plants receive steel, nonferrous materials, minerals, and other raw materials. The industrial chemicals market consists of a vast number of chemical compounds that support the manufacturing of more complex chemicals. Plastics shipments support automotive, housing, and the durable and disposable consumer goods markets. Forest product shipments include lumber and paper commodities. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the Pacific Northwest or Western Canada and move throughout the U.S. for use in new home construction and repairs and remodeling. Paper shipments primarily support packaging needs. Oil and gas drilling generates demand for raw steel, finished pipe, stone, and drilling fluid commodities. The Company s petroleum and LPG shipments are primarily impacted by refinery utilization rates, regional crude pricing differentials, pipeline capacity, and the use of asphalt for road programs. Soda ash originates in southwestern Wyoming and California, destined for chemical and glass producing markets in North America and abroad. Premium In 2023, Premium shipments generated 31% of Union Pacific s total freight revenues. Premium includes finished automobiles, automotive parts, and merchandise in intermodal containers, both domestic and international. International business consists of import and export traffic moving in 20 or 40-foot shipping containers, that mainly pass through West Coast ports, destined for one of the Company's many inland intermodal terminals. Domestic business includes container and trailer traffic picked up and delivered within North America for intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and logistics companies) as well as truckload carriers. We are the largest automotive carrier west of the Mississippi River and operate or access 39 vehicle distribution centers. The Railroad s extensive franchise accesses six vehicle assembly plants and connects to West Coast ports, all six major Mexico gateways, and the Port of Houston to accommodate both import and export shipments. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, the Company provides expedited handling of automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers destined for Mexico, the U.S., and Canada. 6 Table of Contents Seasonality Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity (such as certain agricultural and food products that have specific growing and harvesting seasons) and the demand cycle for the commodity (such as intermodal traffic that generally peaks during the third quarter to meet back-to-school and holiday-related demand for consumer goods during the fourth quarter). The peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably each year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international economies and currencies; consumer demand; the strength of harvests, which can be adversely affected by severe weather; market prices for agricultural products; and supply chain disruptions. Proud Engaged Workforce Our employees are central to our Safety + Service Operational Excellence = Growth strategy, and investing in our workforce is key to our success. Our People: Our award-winning, multigenerational workforce includes talented people from all walks of life, in many stages of life. Made up of management and craft professionals, we are focused on attracting, retaining, and developing talent across our entire system. As of December 31, 2023, the Company employed 32,973 employees. Our workforce includes five generations from Traditionalists (born before 1946) to Generation Z (born after 1998). The average age is 46.6 with average tenure of 15.9 years. Union Pacific works with 13 major rail unions, representing approximately 85% of our workforce. The National Carriers Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor Conference, consisting of the top labor officers in most Class I railroads, is the bargaining committee for the industry. Railroads are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA), a federal statute enacted in 1926 to bring the railroads and unions to agreement without disruptions to rail transportation. The RLA includes numerous safeguards to help overcome bargaining stalemates. The next round of negotiations begins on January 1, 2025, related to years 2025-2029. Our Culture: We incorporate our commitment to safety, diversity and inclusion, high ethical standards, passion for performance, and teamwork into our day-to-day operations as we serve our customers. Safety is central to everything we do at Union Pacific. Together, we are committed to cultivating a safety-focused culture, so our employees return home safely every day. To achieve this, our employees identify risks, initiate action to mitigate those risks, and have the courage to care to keep each other safe. Our success is measured by our personal injury rate (the number of reportable injuries for every 200,000 employee-hours worked) and our derailment incident rate (the number of reportable derailment incidents per million train miles). Reportable personal injuries are defined as on duty incidents or occupational illnesses that result in employees losing time away from work, modifying or restricting their normal duties, or receiving any medical treatment above and beyond first aid. Reportable derailment incidents are defined as any occurrence where a wheel of a locomotive or rail car falls off the track and causes damage to track, equipment, or structures above the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) reporting threshold, regardless of ownership ($11,500 for 2023 and $12,000 for 2024) per million train miles. Personal injuries and derailment incidents that meet reportable criteria are reported to the FRA. Our 2023 personal injury rate of 1.17 deteriorated 4%, while our derailment incident rate of 2.72 improved 6% versus 2022. (See further discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, of this report.) Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Union Pacific s commitment to diversity and inclusion is based on our desire to create an environment where people can be their best, personally and professionally. We believe that a diverse and supportive culture increases employee engagement, improves morale, and allows qualified employees to succeed and contribute to Union Pacific's success. All of this supports our safety strategy and improves the quality of decision-making, problem-solving, and strategic thinking. Union Pacific s commitment, today and for the future, is to further improve and strengthen performance through an inclusive workforce that reflects the diverse markets and communities we serve, where everyone is treated fairly, differences are valued, and talent is recognized and rewarded. To that end, Union Pacific intends to maintain its standards of hiring and promoting based on merit, while aspiring to reach 40% people of color and double our female representation to 11% in our workforce by 2030. As of December 31, 2023, workforce representation of people of color and females was approximately 33.8% and 5.5%, respectively. 7 Table of Contents The Employee Journey: From recruitment to retirement and milestones in between, we are relentlessly focused on supporting and engaging employees throughout their Union Pacific journey. We view it as imperative to invest in our employees with meaningful benefit offerings, developmental experiences, and career opportunities. The process begins with recruitment, where we strive to attract the most talented and diverse employees to join our team. Then, we focus on training and development, which includes courses and programs designed to help our employees grow into new roles and/or learn a new skill in their current role so that we can retain our workforce over time. Providing competitive compensation and meaningful benefits is key to attracting and retaining talented employees. Union Pacific is committed to continuously reviewing its compensation programs and comprehensive benefits programs to promote programs that are fair and competitive. Both are key to enhancing the value of working for Union Pacific and demonstrating the Company s commitment to the health and wealth of employees during their career. Benefits vary based on the applicable collective bargaining agreement or an employee s management status. The final stage of the employee journey is a fulfilling retirement, which is enabled during their UP career through our compensation and benefit programs, particularly contributions to 401(k) plans and the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). Our Board of Directors evaluates our non-union compensation plans and reviews recommendations from the Compensation and Benefits Committee, while collective bargaining agreements govern compensation for our union employees. The median annual compensation for all employees employed as of December 31, 2023, was $108,244 (excluding the CEO). Talent is critical - our ability to recruit and retain employees is directly tied to our railroad s fluidity. Without team members to dispatch, operate trains, and maintain our infrastructure, our network struggles to provide customers efficient, reliable service. We are focused on effectively managing workforce levels to the demands of the business and improving quality of life for our employees. Therefore, we continue to hire to backfill attrition and handle growth as needed. Railroad Security Our security efforts consist of a wide variety of measures, including employee training, engagement with our customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies. While federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives. UPRR Security Measures We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and respond to any potential or actual threats as they arise. The plan includes four levels of alert status, each with its own set of countermeasures. We employ our own police force, consisting of commissioned and highly-trained officers. The police are certified state law enforcement officers with investigative and arrest powers. The Union Pacific Police Department has achieved accreditation under the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies, Inc. (CALEA) for complying with the highest law enforcement standards. Our employees undergo recurrent security and preparedness training as well as federally mandated hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the sufficiency of our employee training programs. We maintain the capability to move critical operations to back-up facilities in different locations. We operate an emergency response management center 24 hours a day. The center receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from our employees, the public, law enforcement, and other government officials. In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public events, and, as necessary, we may alter rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize risk to communities and our operations. We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law. We design our operating plan to expedite the movement of hazardous material shipments to minimize the time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers. Additionally, in compliance with Transportation Security Administration (TSA) regulations, we deployed information systems and instructed employees in tracking and documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Materials with customers and interchange partners. We established a number of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in technology to The Officer on Train program, which provides local law enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance their understanding of railroad operations and risks. Our staff of information security professionals continually assess cybersecurity risks and implement mitigation programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment. To date, we have not experienced any material disruption of our operations due to a cyber threat or incident directed at us. 8 Table of Contents Cooperation with Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies We work closely on physical and cybersecurity initiatives with government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT); the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), along with its Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and the TSA; as well as local police departments, fire departments, and other first responders. Based on guidance from the TSA, starting from January 1, 2022, we were obligated to report cyber incidents to CISA. Additionally, we appointed cybersecurity coordinators, conducted a self-assessment of our cyber vulnerabilities, and put in place a plan to respond to cyber incidents. We are currently awaiting approval of our security plan before progressing with the establishment of a cybersecurity assessment plan, which will describe how the Company proactively and regularly evaluates the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures as well as identify and address any weaknesses in our devices, networks, and systems. In conjunction with the Association of American Railroads (AAR), we sponsor Ask Rail, a mobile application that provides first responders with secure links to electronic information, including commodity and emergency response information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations. We also participate in the National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism. We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Military Transport Management Command, which monitor shipments entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports. We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to develop, enhance, and maintain effective security processes throughout the global supply chain. Cooperation with Customers and Trade Associations Through TransCAER (Transportation Community Awareness and Emergency Response), we work with the AAR, the American Chemistry Council, the American Petroleum Institute, and other chemical trade groups to provide communities with preparedness tools, including the training of emergency responders. In cooperation with the FRA and other interested groups, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will further limit the risk of releases of hazardous materials. Sustainable Future Union Pacific believes it is important that we act as environmental stewards, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and supporting the transition to a more sustainable future. While we work to further reduce our environmental footprint, it is important to note that railroads already are one of the most fuel-efficient means of transportation. Freight rail leads other forms of surface transportation when it comes to minimizing GHG emissions, and we expect rail will continue to play a critical role in mitigating and abating the impacts of climate change. According to the AAR, moving freight by rail instead of truck reduces GHG emissions by up to 75%. Therefore, converting freight transportation from truck to rail typically results in an immediate reduction in our customers' scope 3 GHG emissions. Competition see We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers in the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. Key Suppliers see We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail in the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. Available Information Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our website (under the Investors caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4, and 5, filed on behalf of our directors and certain executive officers; and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We provide these reports and statements as soon as reaso