Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries 21 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Critical Accounting Policies 39 Cautionary Information 43 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 81 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 82 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 83 Item 9B. Other Information 84 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 84 Item 11. Executive Compensation 84 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 84 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 85 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 86 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Signatures Certifications 92 96 2 February 7, 2020 Fellow Shareholders: Union Pacific exited 2019 as a much different, much better company than we started the year. The implementation of Unified Plan 2020 is transforming how we do business making us more efficient and reliable for our customers. Change of this magnitude is difficult, but the men and women of Union Pacific met the challenge head on - driving us to new levels of profitability in a year that included historic flooding and a declining freight environment. We are pleased to report earnings per diluted share of $8.38, which is a 6 percent increase versus 2018, despite volume declines of 6 percent. Our operating ratio was a record 60.6 percent, 2.1 points better than last year s 62.7 percent. The adoption of Unified Plan 2020 is a key part of Union Pacific s push to become the best freight railroad in North America. We think of this strategy as a flywheel that is driven by a Proud and Engaged Workforce . Our employees are at the core of everything we do and are critical to our long-term success. The first cog in the flywheel is to provide the Safest and Most Reliable Freight Rail Products and Services . Everything we do must be done safely and reliably. Unfortunately, our 2019 safety results were not good enough. Our reportable personal injury rate was 0.90, compared to 0.82 in 2018, while our reportable derailment rate was 4.28, compared to 3.28 in 2018. We want every employee to return home safely every day and to eliminate all derailments. We must do better in 2020. We did, however, make great strides to improve the reliability of our service product. Trip plan compliance improved 6 points, demonstrating our commitment to be there when we say we will. Local service metrics like to and from industry, also showed solid improvement. Additionally, increased asset utilization and fewer car classifications led to a 6 percent improvement in freight car velocity and a 17 percent improvement in freight car terminal dwell. In order to be cost competitive for our customers in a quickly changing freight environment, we must have Highly Efficient Operations . This includes emphasizing on-time performance and turning assets more quickly, driving costs out of our network so we can better compete in both new and existing markets. I am very pleased to report that the team did an excellent job across the board in this area as we drove our operating ratio to record levels. Combining an enhanced service product with advancing technology allows us to provide an Industry-Leading Customer Experience . One example is the transparency we are providing customers into their supply chain. Use of Mobile Work Order devices has allowed us to provide streamlined interfaces, better notifications and improved local inventory reporting. And we re just getting started! Efficient operations and an excellent customer experience are the foundation that enables us to Secure Appropriate Business . Despite a difficult freight environment where freight volumes decreased 6 percent compared to 2018, we continue to win new business. We re excited to participate in the development of the new Butler Intermodal Terminal in Central Iowa, providing an alternative to larger Midwest rail hubs and giving shippers a cost-competitive solution to reduce long-haul trucking miles. 3 A safe, reliable and efficient service product positions us to generate Best-in-Industry Cash Returns . Total shareholder return, including price appreciation and dividends, increased 33.7 percent in 2019, compared to 31.5 percent for the S P 500. We paid dividends in 2019 of $2.6 billion, as we raised our quarterly dividend with two 10 percent increases during the year. In addition, we repurchased 35 million Union Pacific shares, decreasing our full-year average share count by 6 percent. Combining dividends and share repurchases, Union Pacific returned $8.4 billion to our shareholders in 2019. Capital investments in our business form the foundation for future improvements in safety, reliability and efficiency, making it critical that we make Optimal Investments annually. In 2019, we invested $3.2 billion, including just under $2 billion in replacement capital to harden our infrastructure, replace older assets and improve the safety and resiliency of our network. We also invested for growth and productivity through the addition of five extended sidings on our Sunset Corridor, a key competitive route for us. As we enter the new decade, we are looking forward to leveraging the Unified Plan 2020 service gains to safely and reliably grow the business. We understand that opportunity comes with responsibility; we will continue to be a positive force in sustainability efforts, ensuring all stakeholders are heard. Our goal and our path are clear: Be the best freight railroad in North America, and use that platform to grow with our customers. Thank you for joining us on this value-creating journey. Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 4 DIR ECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andrew H. Card, Jr. Lance M. Fritz Thomas F. McLarty III Former White House Chairman, President and President Chief of Staff Chief Executive Officer McLarty Associates Board Committees: Audit, Union Pacific Corporation and Board Committees: Finance (Chair), Compensation and Benefits Union Pacific Railroad Company Corporate Governance and Nominating Erroll B. Davis, Jr. Deborah C. Hopkins Former Chairman, Former Chief Executive Officer Bhavesh V. Patel President CEO Citi Ventures Chief Executive Officer and Alliant Energy Corporation Former Chief Innovation Officer Chairman of the Management Board Board Committees: Compensation Citi LyondellBasell Industries N.V. and Benefits (Chair), Corporate Board Committees: Audit, Finance Board Committees: Finance, Governance and Nominating Compensation and Benefits Jane H. Lute William J. DeLaney President and Chief Executive Officer Jose H. Villarreal Former Chief Executive Officer, SICPA North America Advisor Sysco Corporation Board Committees: Audit, Corporate Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer Board Committees: Audit, Governance and Nominating Feld, LLP Compensation and Benefits Board Committees: Compensation Michael R. McCarthy and Benefits, Corporate Governance David B. Dillon Chairman and Nominating Former Chairman McCarthy Group, LLC The Kroger Company Lead Independent Director Christopher J. Williams Board Committees: Audit (Chair), Board Committees: Corporate Chairman Compensation and Benefits Governance and Nominating (Chair), Siebert Williams Shank Co. Finance Board Committees: Audit, Finance* SENIOR MANAGEMENT** Lance M. Fritz Jennifer L. Hamann Kenny G. Rocker Chairman, President and Executive Vice President Executive Vice President-Marketing Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and Sales Prentiss W. Bolin, Jr. Thomas A. Lischer Todd M. Rynaski Vice President-External Relations Executive Vice President-Operations Vice President and Controller Bryan L. Clark Scott D. Moore V. James Vena Vice President-Tax Senior Vice President-Corporate Chief Operating Officer Relations and Rhonda S. Ferguson Chief Administrative Officer Elizabeth F. Whited Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Executive Vice President and Officer and Corporate Secretary Jon T. Panzer Chief Human Resource Officer Senior Vice President-Technology Gary W. Grosz and Strategic Planning Vice President and Treasurer Clark J. Ponthier Senior Vice President-Supply Chain And Continuous Improvement *Committee appointments effective March 18, 2020. **Senior management are elected officers of both Union Pacific Corporation and Union Pacific Railroad Company, except Messrs. Lischer, Ponthier and Rocker are elected officers for Union Pacific Railroad Company. . 5 PA RT I It em 1. Business GENERAL Union Pacific Railroad Company is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation. One of America s most recognized companies, Union Pacific Railroad Company links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail, providing a critical link in the global supply chain. The Railroad s diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Energy, Industrial and Premium. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers, operates from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada s rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways. Union Pacific provides value to its roughly 10,000 customers by delivering products in a safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible manner. Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179. The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol UNP . For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to UPC , Corporation , Company , we , us , and our shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as UPRR or the Railroad . Available Information Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our website (under the Investors caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4, and 5, filed on behalf of our directors and certain executive officers; and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We provide these reports and statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website previously filed SEC reports and exhibits via a link to EDGAR on the SEC s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Additionally, our corporate governance materials, including By-Laws, Board Committee charters, governance guidelines and policies, and codes of conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees are available on our website. From time to time, the corporate governance materials on our website may be updated as necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the NYSE or as desirable to promote the effective and efficient governance of our Company. Any security holder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials should send a written request to: Secretary, Union Pacific Corporation, 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179. References to our website address in this report, including references in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. OPERATIONS The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. Additional information regarding our business and operations, including revenue and financial information and data and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item 3; Selected Financial Data, Item 6; Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7; and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8 (which include information regarding revenues, statements of income, and total assets). 6 Operations UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 32,340 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the Western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. Our freight traffic consists of bulk, manifest, and premium business. Bulk traffic primarily consists of coal, grain, soda 2019 Freight Revenue ash, ethanol, and rock shipped in unit trains trains transporting a single commodity from one origin to one destination. Manifest traffic includes individual carload or less than train-load business involving commodities such as lumber, steel, paper, food and chemicals. The transportation of finished vehicles, auto parts, intermodal containers and truck trailers are included as part of our premium business. In 2019, we generated freight revenues totaling $20.2 billion from the following four commodity groups: Agricultural Products Transportation of grains, commodities produced from these grains, fertilizer, and food and beverage products generated 22% of the Railroad s 2019 freight revenue. We access most major grain markets, linking the Midwest and Western U.S. producing areas to export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and Gulf Coast ports, as well as Mexico. We also serve significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders and ethanol producers in the Midwest and West. Fertilizer movements originate in the Gulf Coast region, Midwest, western U.S. and Canada (through interline access) for delivery to major agricultural users in those areas, as well as abroad. Energy The Company s Energy shipments are grouped into the following three categories: (i) coal, (ii) sand and (iii) petroleum, liquid petroleum gases (LPG) and renewables. In 2019, this group generated 18% of our freight revenue. The Railroad s network supports the transportation of coal shipments to independent and regulated power companies and industrial facilities throughout the U.S. Through interchange gateways and ports, UPRR s reach extends to eastern U.S. utilities, as well as to Mexico and other international destinations. Coal traffic originating in the Powder River Basin (PRB) area of Wyoming is the largest segment of the Railroad s coal business. Demand for hydraulic fracturing sand, or frac-sand, is generated by oil and gas drilling, whereas, the Company s petroleum and LPG shipments are primarily impacted by refinery utilization rates, regional crude pricing differentials, pipeline capacity, and the use of asphalt for road programs. Renewable shipments consist primarily of biomass exports and wind turbine components. Industrial Our extensive network facilitates the movement of numerous commodities between thousands of origin and destination points throughout North America. The Industrial group consists of several categories, including construction, industrial chemicals, plastics, forest products, specialized products (primarily waste, lime, salt and government), metals and ores, and soda ash. Transportation of these products accounted for 29% of our freight revenue in 2019. Commercial, residential and governmental infrastructure investments drive shipments of steel, aggregates, cement and wood products. Industrial and light manufacturing plants receive steel, nonferrous materials, minerals and other raw materials. The industrial chemicals market consists of a vast number of chemical compounds that support the manufacturing of more complex chemicals. Plastics shipments support automotive, housing, and the durable and disposable consumer goods markets . Forest product shipments include lumber and paper commodities. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the Pacific Northwest or western Canada and move throughout the U.S. for use in new home construction and repairs and remodeling. Paper shipments primarily support packaging needs. Oil and gas drilling generates demand for raw steel, finished pipe, stone and drilling fluid commodities. Soda ash originates in southwestern Wyoming and California, destined for chemical and glass producing markets in North America and abroad. 7 Premium In 2019, the Premium franchise generated 31% of Union Pacific s total freight revenue. Our Premium franchise includes three segments: international intermodal, domestic intermodal, and finished vehicles. International business consists of import and export traffic moving in 20 or 40-foot shipping containers, that mainly passes through West Coast ports served by UP s extensive terminal network. Domestic business includes container and trailer traffic picked up and delivered within North America for intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and logistics companies), as well as truckload carriers. We are the largest automotive carrier west of the Mississippi River and operate or access 38 vehicle distribution centers. The Railroad s extensive franchise serves five vehicle assembly plants and connects to West Coast ports, all six major Mexico gateways, and the Port of Houston to accommodate both import and export shipments. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, UPRR provides expedited handling of automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers destined for Mexico, the U.S. and Canada. Seasonality Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity and the demand cycle for the commodity (such as certain agricultural and food products that have specific growing and harvesting seasons). The peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably each year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international economies and currencies and the strength of harvests and market prices for agricultural products. Working Capital At both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had a working capital deficit. The deficits are primarily due to upcoming debt maturities. As past years indicate, it is not unusual for us to have a working capital deficit; however, we believe it is not an indication of a lack of liquidity. We also maintain adequate resources, including our credit facility, and when necessary, access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements. Competition We are subject to competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ship and barge operators, and pipelines. Our main railroad competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC. Its primary subsidiary, BNSF Railway Company (BNSF), operates parallel routes in many of our main traffic corridors. In addition, we operate in corridors served by other railroads and motor carriers. Motor carrier competition exists for all four of our commodity groups (excluding most coal shipments). Because of the proximity of our routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways, barges can be particularly competitive, especially for grain and bulk commodities in certain areas where we operate. In addition to price competition, we also face competition with respect to transit times, quality and reliability of service from motor carriers and other railroads. Motor carriers in particular can have an advantage over railroads with respect to transit times and timeliness of service. However, railroads are much more fuel-efficient than trucks, which reduces the impact of transporting goods on the environment and public infrastructure, and we have been making efforts to convert certain truck traffic to rail. Additionally, we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system; trucks and barges are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any of the following could also affect the competitiveness of our transportation services for some or all of our commodities: (i) improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the costs of these alternative modes of transportation, (ii) legislation that eliminates or significantly increases the size or weight limitations applied to motor carriers, or (iii) legislation or regulatory changes that impose operating restrictions on railroads or that adversely affect the profitability of some or all railroad traffic. Finally, many movements face product or geographic competition where our customers can use different products (e.g. natural gas instead of coal, sorghum instead of corn) or commodities from different locations (e.g. grain from states or countries that we do not serve, crude oil from different regions). Sourcing different commodities or different locations allows shippers to substitute different carriers and such competition may reduce our volume or constrain prices. For more information regarding risks we face from competition, see the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. Key Suppliers We depend on two key domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives. Due to the capital intensive nature of the locomotive manufacturing business and sophistication of this equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers of entry into this industry. Therefore, if one of these domestic suppliers discontinues manufacturing locomotives, supplying parts or providing maintenance for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience a significant cost increase and risk reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary to our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two steel producers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical for maintenance, replacement, improvement, and expansion of our network and facilities. Rail manufacturing also has high barriers of entry, and, if one of those suppliers 8 discontinues operations for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience cost increases and difficulty obtaining rail. Employees Approximately 85% of our full-time employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. Pursuant to the Railway Labor Act (RLA), our collective bargaining agreements are subject to modification every five years. The RLA procedures include mediation, potential arbitration, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention. The current round of negotiations began on January 1, 2020 related to years 2020-2024. Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time, and work stoppages during negotiations are rare. Railroad Security Our security efforts consist of a wide variety of measures including employee training, engagement with our customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies. While federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives. UPRR Security Measures We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and respond to any potential or actual threats as they arise. The plan includes four levels of alert status, each with its own set of countermeasures. We employ our own police force, consisting of commissioned and highly-trained officers. Our employees also undergo recurrent security and preparedness training, as well as federally-mandated hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the sufficiency of our employee training programs. We maintain the capability to move critical operations to back-up facilities in different locations. We operate an emergency response management center 24 hours a day. The center receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from our employees, the public, law enforcement and other government officials. In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public events, and, as necessary, we may alter rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize risk to communities and our operations. We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law. We also design our operating plan to expedite the movement of hazardous material shipments to minimize the time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers. Additionally, in compliance with Transportation Security Agency regulations, we deployed information systems and instructed employees in tracking and documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Materials with customers and interchange partners. We also have established a number of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in technology to The Officer on Train program, which provides local law enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance their understanding of railroad operations and risks. Our staff of information security professionals continually assesses cyber security risks and implements mitigation programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment. To date, we have not experienced any material disruption of our operations due to a cyber threat or attack directed at us. Cooperation with Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies We work closely on physical and cyber security initiatives with government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as well as local police departments, fire departments, and other first responders. In conjunction with the Association of American Railroads (AAR), we sponsor Ask Rail, a mobile application which provides first responders with secure links to electronic information, including commodity and emergency response information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations. We also participate in the National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism. We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Military Transport Management Command, which monitor shipments entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports. We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to develop, enhance, and maintain effective security processes throughout the global supply chain. 9 Cooperation with Customers and Trade Associations Through TransCAER (Transportation Community Awareness and Emergency Response) we work with the AAR, the American Chemistry Council, the American Petroleum Institute, and other chemical trade groups to provide communities with preparedness tools, including the training of emergency responders. In cooperation with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and other interested groups, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will further limit the risk of releases of hazardous materials. GOVERNMENTAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION Governmental Regulation Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulations, generally applicable to all businesses. (See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings in Legal Proceedings, Item 3.) The operations of the Railroad are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (STB). The STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic; common carrier service of regulated traffic; freight car compensation; transfer, extension, or abandonment of rail lines; and acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The STB continues its efforts to explore expanding rail regulation and is reviewing proposed rulemaking in various areas, including reciprocal switching, commodity exemptions, and expanding and easing procedures for smaller rate complaints. The STB also continues to develop a methodology for determining railroad revenue adequacy and the possible use of a revenue adequacy constraint in regulating railroad rates. The STB posts quarterly repo