Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 9 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2 Properties 22 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B Other Information 88 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11 Executive Compensation 89 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 89 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as believe, expect, may, will, should, seek, on-track, plan, project, forecast, intend or anticipate, or the negative thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy or outlook. You are cautioned that our business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and, consequently, our actual results may differ materially from those projected. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, but are not limited to, the following: the cyclical nature of our business, which is highly sensitive to North American construction and industrial activities; if construction or industrial activity decline, our revenues and, because many of our costs are fixed, our profitability may be adversely affected; uncertainty regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of the coronavirus (COVID-19) on global economic conditions, and regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside. Uncertainty remains regarding the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and the time it will take for the pandemic to subside will also be impacted by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health; the impact of global economic conditions (including potential trade wars) and public health crises and epidemics, such as COVID-19, on us, our customers and our suppliers, in the United States and the rest of the world; rates we charge and time utilization we achieve being less than anticipated; excess fleet in the equipment rental industry; inability to benefit from government spending, including spending associated with infrastructure projects; trends in oil and natural gas could adversely affect the demand for our services and products; competition from existing and new competitors; our significant indebtedness (which totaled $9.7 billion at December 31, 2021) requires us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow for debt service and can constrain our flexibility in responding to unanticipated or adverse business conditions; inability to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us, including as a result of volatility and uncertainty in capital markets, or at all; incurrence of additional debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness; noncompliance with financial or other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in our lenders terminating the agreements and requiring us to repay outstanding borrowings; restrictive covenants and amount of borrowings permitted in our debt instruments, which can limit our financial and operational flexibility; inability to access the capital that our businesses or growth plans may require, including as a result of uncertainty in capital or other financial markets; the possibility that companies that we have acquired or may acquire could have undiscovered liabilities or involve other unexpected costs, may strain our management capabilities or may be difficult to integrate; incurrence of impairment charges; fluctuations in the price of our common stock and inability to complete stock repurchases in the time frame and/or on the terms anticipated; our charter provisions as well as provisions of certain debt agreements and our significant indebtedness may have the effect of making more difficult or otherwise discouraging, delaying or deterring a takeover or other change of control of us; inability to manage credit risk adequately or to collect on contracts with a large number of customers; turnover in our management team and inability to attract and retain key personnel, as well as loss, absenteeism or the inability of employees to work or perform key functions in light of public health crises or epidemics (including COVID-19); costs we incur being more than anticipated, and the inability to realize expected savings in the amounts or time frames planned; inability to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business from our key suppliers on acceptable terms or at all, as a result of supply chain disruptions, insolvency, financial difficulties or other factors; increases in our maintenance and replacement costs and/or decreases in the residual value of our equipment; inability to sell our new or used fleet in the amounts, or at the prices, we expect; risks related to security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, failure to protect personal information, compliance with data protection laws and other significant disruptions in our information technology systems; 1 Table of Contents risks related to climate change and climate change regulation; risks relating to our ability to meet our environmental and social goals, including our greenhouse gas intensity reduction goal; the fact that our holding company structure requires us to depend in part on distributions from subsidiaries and such distributions could be limited by contractual or legal restrictions; shortfalls in our insurance coverage; increases in our loss reserves to address business operations or other claims and any claims that exceed our established levels of reserves; incurrence of additional expenses (including indemnification obligations) and other costs in connection with litigation, regulatory and investigatory matters; the costs of complying with environmental, safety and foreign laws and regulations, as well as other risks associated with non-U.S. operations, including currency exchange risk, and tariffs; the outcome or other potential consequences of regulatory matters and commercial litigation; labor shortages and/or disputes, work stoppages or other labor difficulties, which may impact our productivity, and potential enactment of new legislation or other changes in law affecting our labor relations or operations generally; and the effect of changes in tax law. We make no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date any such statement is made. 2 Table of Contents PART I United Rentals, Inc., incorporated in Delaware in 1997, is principally a holding company. We primarily conduct our operations through our wholly owned subsidiary, United Rentals (North America), Inc., and its subsidiaries. As used in this report, the term Holdings refers to United Rentals, Inc., the term URNA refers to United Rentals (North America), Inc., and the terms the Company, United Rentals, we, us, and our refer to United Rentals, Inc. and its subsidiaries, in each case unless otherwise indicated. Unless otherwise indicated, the information under Items 1, 1A and 2 is as of January 1, 2022. Item 1. Business United Rentals is the largest equipment rental company in the world, operates throughout the United States and Canada, and has a limited presence in Europe, Australia and New Zealand. The table below presents key information about our business as of and for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Our business is discussed in more detail below. The data below should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our Management s Discussion and Analysis and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. 1 Table of Contents 2021 2020 PERFORMANCE MEASURES Total revenues (in millions) $9,716 $8,530 Equipment rental revenue percent of total revenues 84% 84% Equipment rental revenue variance components: Year-over-year change in average original equipment cost ( OEC ) 4.0% (2.2)% Assumed year-over-year inflation impact (1) (1.5)% (1.5)% Fleet productivity (2) 10.4% (6.9)% Contribution from ancillary and re-rent revenue (3) 2.0% 0.3% Total equipment rental revenue variance 14.9% (10.3)% Key account percent of equipment rental revenue 72% 74% National account percent of equipment rental revenue 43% 44% FLEET Fleet OEC (in billions) $15.79 $13.78 Equipment classes 4,300 4,000 Equipment units 780,000 615,000 Fleet age in months 54.1 54.5 Percent of fleet that is current on manufacturer's recommended maintenance 77% 81% Equipment rental revenue percent by fleet type: General construction and industrial equipment 42% 43% Aerial work platforms 26% 27% General tools and light equipment 8% 8% Power and HVAC (heating, ventilating and air conditioning) equipment 9% 9% Trench safety equipment 6% 6% Fluid solutions equipment 7% 7% Mobile storage equipment and modular office space (4) 2% % LOCATIONS/PERSONNEL Rental locations 1,345 1,165 Approximate range of branches per district 3-11 4-11 Approximate range of districts per region 4-9 5-10 Range of regions per division 2-6 3-4 Hourly employees 14,200 12,550 Salaried employees 6,200 5,700 Total employees 20,400 18,250 INDUSTRY Estimated North American market share (5) 15% 14% Estimated North American equipment rental industry revenue growth (decline) (2) (5) 4% (9)% 2022 projected North American industry equipment rental revenue growth 10% CUSTOMERS/SUPPLIERS Largest customer percent of total revenues 1% 1% Top 10 customers percent of total revenues 4% 4% Largest supplier percent of capital expenditures 9% 9% Top 10 supplier percent of capital expenditures 49% 45% (1) Reflects the estimated impact of inflation on the revenue productivity of fleet based on OEC, which is recorded at cost. (2) Reflects the combined impact of changes in rental rates, time utilization, and mix that contribute to the variance in owned equipment rental revenue. See note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the different types of 2 Table of Contents equipment rentals revenue. Rental rate changes are calculated based on the year-over-year variance in average contract rates, weighted by the prior period revenue mix. Time utilization is calculated by dividing the amount of time an asset is on rent by the amount of time the asset has been owned during the year. Mix includes the impact of changes in customer, fleet, geographic and segment mix. The positive fleet productivity for 2021 and the negative fleet productivity for 2020 include the impact of the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ), which resulted in rental volume declines in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions, as discussed further below. The COVID-19 volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 than 2021, and in 2021, we saw evidence of a continuing recovery of activity across our end-markets. The 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue also includes the impact of COVID-19 (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for further discussion). (3) Reflects the combined impact of changes in the other types of equipment rentals revenue (see note 3 for further detail), excluding owned equipment rental revenue. (4) As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ( General Finance ), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5) As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and which we believe helped mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our results. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 than 2021, and we have seen recent evidence of recovery across our construction and industrial markets, as well as encouraging gains in end-market indicators, as reflected in our 2022 forecast. COVID-19 is discussed in more detail throughout Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Human Capital The Company s key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop talent to deliver on the Company s strategy. To support these objectives, the Company s human resources programs are designed to: keep people safe and healthy; enhance the Company s culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more inclusive; acquire and retain diverse talent; reward and support employees through competitive pay and benefit programs; develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions; and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing workforce. See Locations/Personnel in the table above for information on employee counts. The Company focuses on the following in managing its human capital: Health and safety: We have a safety program that focuses on implementing management systems, policies and training programs and performing assessments to see that workers are trained properly and that injuries and incidents are prevented. All of our employees are empowered with stop-work authority which enables them to immediately stop any unsafe or potentially hazardous working condition or behavior they may observe. We utilize a mixture of indicators to assess the safety performance of our operations, including total recordable injury rate, preventable motor vehicle incidents per million miles, corrective actions and near miss frequency. We also recognize outstanding safety behaviors through our annual awards program. Employee wellness: The Company s Live Well, Safe Healthy program is a comprehensive approach to wellness that encourages healthy behaviors and is intended to raise morale, productivity and overall employee engagement. The program includes a biometric screening at work or off-site, a health assessment, a paid day off to be used for a 3 Table of Contents wellness exam or day of service, tobacco cessation support, and participation incentives. Additionally, employees and family members can participate in virtual health challenges to encourage daily activity. Approximately 50 percent of eligible employees participated in the program in 2021. Diversity, equity and inclusion ( DE I ): We believe that an inclusive and diverse team is key to the success of our culture and aim to drive DE I initiatives through many efforts, including sponsoring four employee-led employee resource groups ( ERGs ) that represent and support the diverse communities that make up our workforce. The ERGs facilitate networking and connecting with peers, outreach and mentoring, and leadership and skill development. The Company has internal goals for overall workforce diversity and additional goals for specific positions at the Company, and there has been positive progress in diverse representation at the Company, as reflected in a four percentage point increase in diverse employees in sales and management roles, which increased from 27 percent in 2018 to 31 percent in 2021. In addition, the Company has made hiring and supporting veterans a priority through its veterans ERG and working with organizations that support the veteran community. Importantly, in 2021, we conducted a Company-wide culture workshop with all employees designed to continue our dialogue on racial justice and social equity by focusing on three important keys of our culture: safety and wellness, DE I, and trust and communication. Compensation programs and employee benefits: Our compensation and benefits programs provide a package designed to attract, retain and motivate employees. In addition to competitive base salaries, the Company provides a variety of short-term, long-term and commission-based incentive compensation programs to reward performance relative to key financial, human capital and customer experience metrics. We offer comprehensive benefit options including paid time off, retirement savings plans, medical and prescription drug benefits, dental and vision benefits, accident and critical illness insurance, life and disability insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, legal coverage, auto/home insurance, identity theft insurance and tuition assistance. Additionally, we have conducted three company-wide stock grant programs for employees since 2014 the most recent grant was in recognition of our employees special efforts during the COVID-19 pandemic, and initially took place in 2020, with an update in 2021 recognizing the contributions of newly hired employees since the 2020 grant date. Employee experience and retention: To evaluate our employee experience and retention efforts, we monitor a number of employee measures, such as employee retention, internal promotions and referrals. For example, total employee turnover, which represents voluntary and involuntary terminations during the year divided by average headcount during the year, was 15.4 percent, 11.9 percent and 14.4 percent for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We also conduct an annual employee experience survey, which provides valuable information on drivers of engagement and areas where we can improve. Our 2021 employee experience survey showed year-over-year increases in most categories and no declines in any category. Additionally, when we asked employees how likely they are to continue with the Company beyond 6 months, the average response was 9.2 out of 10, which was consistent with the average response in 2020. We believe this question assesses our employees commitment to United Rentals, and that the response is consistent with our strong employee retention. To provide an open and frequent line of communication for all employees, we host town hall meetings and quarterly all employee conference calls, and utilize Workplace to engage with our full team. The Company also sponsors the United Compassion Fund, an employee-funded 501(c)(3) charity that provides financial assistance to fellow employees in need. In 2021, employees voluntarily donated approximately $1.3 million to the fund, and employees received 403 grants totaling approximately $875,000. Training and development: The Company is committed to the continual development of its employees. We aim for all new hires to attend JumpSTART, a new hire orientation, to quickly acclimate them to our culture, as well as applicable new hires to attend Center of Excellence (job related) training within 90 days of hire. We offer a wide array of training solutions (classroom, hands-on, e-learning and experience maps) for further development of our employees to help them achieve their career goals. In addition, as we did in 2021, we aim to regularly develop new training programs, launch pilot programs and expand leadership opportunities for our employees. In 2021, our employees enhanced their skills through approximately 460,000 hours of training, including safety training, sales and leadership training and equipment-related training from our suppliers. The majority of our training was delivered virtually during 2021 and 2020. Our performance process encourages employee check-ins throughout the year to discuss performance and career goals, as well as development opportunities at all levels across the Company. Strategy For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. 4 Table of Contents We are continuing to manage the impact of COVID-19, as discussed throughout Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our general strategy focuses on profitability and return on invested capital, and, in particular, calls for: A consistently superior standard of service to customers , often provided through a single lead contact who can coordinate the cross-selling of the various services we offer throughout our network. We utilize a proprietary software application, Total Control , which provides our key customers with a single in-house software application that enables them to monitor and manage all their equipment needs. Total Control is a unique customer offering that enables us to develop strong, long-term relationships with our larger customers. Our digital capabilities, including our Total Control platform, allow our sales teams to provide contactless end-to-end customer service; The further optimization of our customer mix and fleet mix, with a dual objective: to enhance our performance in serving our current customer base, and to focus on the accounts and customer types that are best suited to our strategy for profitable growth. We believe these efforts will lead to even better service of our target accounts, primarily large construction and industrial customers, as well as select local contractors. Our fleet team's analyses are aligned with these objectives to identify trends in equipment categories and define action plans that can generate improved returns; A continued focus on Lean management techniques, including kaizen processes focused on continuous improvement . We continue to implement Lean kaizen processes across our branch network, with the objectives of: reducing the cycle time associated with renting our equipment to customers; improving invoice accuracy and service quality; reducing the elapsed time for equipment pickup and delivery; and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our repair and maintenance operations; The continued expansion of our specialty footprint, as well as our tools and onsite services offerings, and the cross-selling of these services throughout our network . We believe that the expansion of our specialty business, as exhibited by our acquisition of General Finance discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, as well as our tools and onsite services offerings, will further position United Rentals as a single source provider of total jobsite solutions through our extensive product and service resources and technology offerings; and The pursuit of strategic acquisitions to continue to expand our core equipment rental business . Strategic acquisitions allow us to invest our capital to expand our business, further driving our ability to accomplish our strategic goals. Industry Overview and Economic Outlook United Rentals serves the following three principal end-markets for equipment rental in North America: industrial and other non-construction; commercial (or private non-residential) construction; and residential construction, which includes remodeling. In July 2018, we completed the acquisition of BakerCorp International Holdings, Inc. ( BakerCorp ), which allowed for our entry into select European markets. As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance, which allowed for our entry into select markets in Australia and New Zealand. See Item 2 Properties for further geographical detail on our rental network. In 2021, based on an analysis of our charge account customers Standard Industrial Classification ( SIC ) codes: Industrial and other non-construction rentals represented approximately 50 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals to manufacturers, energy companies, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, shipbuilders, utilities, retailers and infrastructure entities; Commercial construction rentals represented approximately 46 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals related to the construction and remodeling of facilities for office space, lodging, healthcare, entertainment and other commercial purposes; and Residential rentals represented approximately four percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals of equipment for the construction and renovation of homes. We estimate that, based on industry estimates from the ARA, 2021 North American equipment rental industry revenue grew approximately 4 percent year-over-year. In 2021, our full year rental revenue increased by 14.9 percent year-over-year, which included the impact of the General Finance acquisition that was completed in May 2021 and is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. As discussed in more detail throughout Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , the increase in rental revenue includes the significant impact in 2020 of COVID-19, which resulted in rental volume declines in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. Our estimated North American market share of approximately 15 percent in 2021 increased from 14 percent in 2020. In 2022, based on our analyses of industry forecasts and macroeconomic indicators, we expect a continuation of the market recovery experienced in 2021, following a market decline in 2020, which included the pronounced impact of 5 Table of Contents COVID-19. Specifically, we expect that North American industry equipment rental revenue will increase approximately 10 percent in 2022. Competitive Advantages We believe that we benefit from the following competitive advantages: Large and Diverse Rental Fleet . Our large and diverse fleet allows us to serve large customers that require substantial quantities and/or wide varieties of equipment. We believe our ability to serve such customers should allow us to improve our performance and enhance our market leadership position. We manage our rental fleet, which is the largest and most comprehensive in the industry, utilizing a life-cycle approach that focuses on satisfying customer demand and optimizing utilization levels. As part of this life-cycle approach, we closely monitor repair and maintenance expense and can anticipate, based on our extensive experience with a large and diverse fleet, the optimum time to dispose of an asset. Significant Purchasing Power . We purchase large amounts of equipment, contractor supplies and other items, which enables us to negotiate favorable pricing, warranty and other terms with our vendors. National Account Program . Our national account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large companies, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. National accounts are generally defined as customers with potential annual equipment rental spend of at least $500,000 or customers doing business in multiple states. We offer our national account customers the benefits of a consistent level of service across North America, a wide selection of equipment and a single point of contact for all their equipment needs. National accounts are a subset of key accounts, which are our accounts that are managed by a single point of contact. Establishing a single point of contact for our key accounts helps us provide customer service manage