Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 9 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 1C Cybersecurity 23 Item 2 Properties 24 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 26 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B Other Information 88 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11 Executive Compensation 89 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 89 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as believe, expect, may, will, should, seek, on-track, plan, project, forecast, intend or anticipate, or the negative thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy or outlook. You are cautioned that our business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and, consequently, our actual results may differ materially from those projected. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, but are not limited to, the following: the impact of global economic conditions (including inflation, increased interest rates, supply chain constraints, potential trade wars and sanctions and other measures imposed in response to international conflicts) and public health crises and epidemics on us, our customers and our suppliers, in the United States and the rest of the world; declines in construction or industrial activity, which can adversely impact our revenues and, because many of our costs are fixed, our profitability; rates we charge and time utilization we achieve being less than anticipated; changes in customer, fleet, geographic and segment mix; excess fleet in the equipment rental industry; inability to benefit from government spending, including spending associated with infrastructure projects, or a reduction in government spending; trends in oil and natural gas, including significant increases in the prices of oil or natural gas, could adversely affect the demand for our services and products; competition from existing and new competitors; the cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate and the industries of our customers, such as those in the construction industry; costs we incur being more than anticipated, including as a result of inflation, and the inability to realize expected savings in the amounts or time frames planned; our significant indebtedness (which totaled $11.5 billion at December 31, 2023) requires us to use a substantial amount of our cash flow for debt service and can constrain our flexibility in responding to unanticipated or adverse business conditions; inability to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us, including as a result of volatility and uncertainty in capital or credit markets or increases in interest rates, or at all; incurrence of additional debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness; noncompliance with financial or other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in our lenders terminating the agreements and requiring us to repay outstanding borrowings; restrictive covenants and the amount of borrowings permitted under our debt instruments, which can limit our financial and operational flexibility; inability to access the capital that our businesses or growth plans may require, including as a result of uncertainty in capital or credit markets; the possibility that companies that we have acquired or may acquire could have undiscovered liabilities, or that companies or assets that we have acquired or may acquire could involve other unexpected costs, may strain our management capabilities, or may be difficult to integrate, and that we may not realize the expected benefits from an acquisition over the timeframe we expect, or at all; incurrence of impairment charges; fluctuations in the price of our common stock and inability to complete stock repurchases or pay dividends in the time frames and/or on the terms anticipated; our charter provisions as well as provisions of certain debt agreements and our significant indebtedness may have the effect of making more difficult or otherwise discouraging, delaying or deterring a takeover or other change of control of us; inability to manage credit risk adequately or to collect on contracts with a large number of customers; turnover in our management team and inability to attract and retain key personnel, as well as loss, absenteeism or the inability of employees to work or perform key functions in light of public health crises or epidemics; inability to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business from our key suppliers on acceptable terms or at all, as a result of supply chain disruptions, insolvency, financial difficulties or other factors; increases in our maintenance and replacement costs and/or decreases in the residual value of our equipment; inability to sell our new or used fleet in the amounts, or at the prices, we expect; 1 Table of Contents risks related to security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, failure to protect personal information, compliance with privacy, data protection and cyber incident reporting laws and regulations, and other significant disruptions in our information technology systems; risks related to climate change and climate change regulation; risks related to our environmental and social goals, including our greenhouse gas intensity reduction goal; the fact that our holding company structure requires us to depend in part on distributions from subsidiaries and such distributions could be limited by contractual or legal restrictions; shortfalls in our insurance coverage; increases in our loss reserves to address business operations or other claims and any claims that exceed our established levels of reserves; incurrence of expenses (including indemnification obligations) and other costs in connection with litigation, regulatory and investigatory matters; the costs of complying with environmental, safety and foreign laws and regulations, as well as other risks associated with non-U.S. operations, including currency exchange risk, and tariffs; the outcome or other potential consequences of regulatory and investigatory matters and litigation; labor shortages and/or disputes, work stoppages or other labor difficulties, which may impact our productivity and increase our costs, and changes in law that could affect our labor relations or operations generally; the effect of changes in tax law; and other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date such statement was made. We make no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date any such statement is made, except as required by law. 2 Table of Contents PART I United Rentals, Inc., incorporated in Delaware in 1997, is principally a holding company. We primarily conduct our operations through our wholly owned subsidiary, United Rentals (North America), Inc., and its subsidiaries. As used in this report, the term Holdings refers to United Rentals, Inc., the term URNA refers to United Rentals (North America), Inc., and the terms the Company, United Rentals, we, us, and our refer to United Rentals, Inc. and its subsidiaries, in each case unless otherwise indicated. Unless otherwise indicated, the information under Items 1, 1A and 2 is as of January 1, 2024. Item 1. Business United Rentals is the largest equipment rental company in the world, operates throughout the United States and Canada, and has a limited presence in Europe, Australia and New Zealand. The table below presents key information about our business as of and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Our business is discussed in more detail below. The data below should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our Management s Discussion and Analysis and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. 1 Table of Contents 2023 2022 PERFORMANCE MEASURES Total revenues (in millions) $14,332 $11,642 Equipment rental revenue percent of total revenues 84% 87% Equipment rental revenue variance components: Year-over-year change in average original equipment cost ( OEC ) 21.9% 13.6% Assumed year-over-year inflation impact (1) (1.5)% (1.5)% Fleet productivity (2) (0.7)% 9.4% Contribution from ancillary and re-rent revenue (3) (0.4)% 1.8% Total equipment rental revenue variance 19.3% 23.3% Pro forma equipment rentals variance components (4): Year-over-year change in average OEC 10.4% Assumed year-over-year inflation impact (1) (1.5)% Fleet productivity (2) 2.8% Contribution from ancillary and re-rent revenue (3) (0.4)% Total equipment rental revenue variance 11.3% Key account percent of equipment rental revenue 67% 68% National account percent of equipment rental revenue 43% 42% FLEET Fleet OEC (in billions) $20.66 $19.61 Equipment classes 4,800 4,600 Equipment units 995,000 1,020,000 Fleet age in months 52.4 53.5 Equipment rental revenue percent by fleet type: General construction and industrial equipment 42% 42% Aerial work platforms 25% 24% General tools and light equipment 8% 8% Power and HVAC (heating, ventilating and air conditioning) equipment 10% 10% Trench safety equipment 5% 6% Fluid solutions equipment 7% 7% Mobile storage equipment and modular office space 3% 3% LOCATIONS/PERSONNEL Rental locations 1,584 1,521 Approximate range of branches per district 5-14 4-13 Approximate range of districts per region 6-11 6-11 Range of regions per division 3-6 2-6 Hourly employees 18,900 17,500 Salaried employees 7,400 7,100 Total employees 26,300 24,600 INDUSTRY Estimated North American market share (5) 15% 15% Estimated North American equipment rental industry revenue growth (5) 12% 14% CUSTOMERS/SUPPLIERS Largest customer percent of total revenues 1% 1% Top 10 customers percent of total revenues 4% 4% Largest supplier percent of capital expenditures 15% 10% Top 10 supplier percent of capital expenditures 48% 45% 2 Table of Contents (1) Reflects the estimated impact of inflation on the revenue productivity of fleet based on OEC, which is recorded at cost. (2) Reflects the combined impact of changes in rental rates, time utilization, and mix that contribute to the variance in owned equipment rental revenue. See note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the different types of equipment rentals revenue. Rental rate changes are calculated based on the year-over-year variance in average contract rates, weighted by the prior period revenue mix. Time utilization is calculated by dividing the amount of time an asset is on rent by the amount of time the asset has been owned during the year. Mix includes the impact of changes in customer, fleet, geographic and segment mix. The positive fleet productivity for 2022 reflected strong demand across our end-markets. The novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ), which resulted in rental volume declines in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions, had the most pronounced on our business in 2020. Beginning in 2021 and continuing through 2023, we have experienced broad-based strength of demand across our end-markets. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for further discussion of our end-markets. (3) Reflects the combined impact of changes in the other types of equipment rentals revenue (see note 3 for further detail), excluding owned equipment rental revenue. (4) We completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals") in December 2022. The pro forma information includes the standalone, pre-acquisition results of Ahern Rentals. The pro forma components are not reflected above for 2022 versus 2021 because of the December 2022 acquisition date (Ahern Rentals did not materially impact the comparison of 2022 and 2021 equipment rentals). The Ahern Rentals acquisition is discussed further in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5) As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2022 industry information, the ARA increased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share as of December 31, 2022 decreased and the size of the 2022 growth in North American equipment rental industry revenue increased. Human Capital The Company s key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop talent to deliver on the Company s strategy. To support these objectives, the Company s human resources programs are designed to: keep people safe and healthy; enhance the Company s culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more inclusive; acquire and retain diverse talent; reward and support employees through competitive pay and benefit programs; develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions; and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing workforce. See Locations/Personnel in the table above for information on employee counts. The Company focuses on the following in managing its human capital: Health and safety: We have a safety program that focuses on implementing management systems, policies and training programs and performing assessments to see that workers are trained properly and that injuries and incidents are prevented. All of our employees are empowered with stop-work authority which enables them to immediately stop any unsafe or potentially hazardous working condition or behavior they may observe. We utilize a mixture of indicators to assess the safety performance of our operations, including total recordable injury rate (TRIR), preventable motor vehicle incidents per million miles, corrective actions and near miss frequency and have disclosed a goal to further reduce our TRIR. We also recognize outstanding safety behaviors through our annual awards program. Employee wellness: The Company s Live Well, Safe Healthy program is a comprehensive approach to wellness that encourages healthy behaviors and is intended to raise morale, productivity and overall employee engagement. The program includes a biometric screening at work or off-site, a health assessment, a paid day off to be used for a wellness exam or day of service, tobacco cessation support, and participation incentives. Additionally, employees and family members can participate in virtual health challenges to encourage daily activity. Approximately 63 percent of eligible employees participated in the program in 2023. Workplace inclusivity and diversity: We believe that an inclusive and diverse team is key to the success of our culture, and we view diversity holistically through a framework that recognizes the importance of diversity in enabling our commercial strategy and continued business success. Our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion ( DEI ) is demonstrated through many efforts including employee-led employee resource groups ( ERGs ); aspirational company-wide DEI goals; and inclusive volunteering opportunities. Our seven ERGs aim to represent and support the diverse communities that make up our workforce by facilitating: networking and connecting with peers; education and awareness efforts; and leadership and skill development. The Company has 3 Table of Contents disclosed an aspirational goal to increase the percentage of racially or gender diverse employees in sales and management roles, reflecting our commitment to increase diverse representation in our talent pipeline. There has been positive progress in this aspirational goal, as reflected in an over five percentage point increase in diverse employees in sales and management roles from 29.5 percent in 2020 to 34.7 percent in 2023. As part of its diversity efforts, the Company is committed to supporting our military veterans and believes that diversity in experience is an asset to the business. To that end, the Company has made the fair inclusion of veterans a priority, through its veterans ERG and external partnerships. Compensation programs and employee benefits: Our compensation and benefits programs provide a package designed to attract, retain and motivate employees. In addition to competitive base salaries, the Company provides a variety of short-term, long-term and commission-based incentive compensation programs to reward performance relative to key financial, human capital and customer experience metrics. We offer comprehensive benefit options including paid time off, retirement savings plans, medical and prescription drug benefits, dental and vision benefits, accident and critical illness insurance, life and disability insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, parental leave, legal coverage, auto/home insurance, identity theft insurance and tuition assistance. Additionally, we have conducted four company-wide stock grant programs for employees since 2014 the most recent grant took place in 2022 and was in honor of our 25 th anniversary. Employee experience and retention: To evaluate our employee experience and retention efforts, we monitor a number of employee measures, such as employee retention, internal promotions and referrals. For example, voluntary employee turnover, which represents voluntary terminations during the year divided by average headcount during the year, was 12.4 percent, 13.1 percent and 13.5 percent for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We also conduct an annual employee experience survey, which provides valuable information on drivers of engagement and areas where we can improve. In 2022, we switched survey administration to Peakon (a Workday company). Our 2023 employee experience survey showed strong results with average responses ranging from 8.4 to 9.2 out of 10 in each of our four survey categories: Engagement (8.5), Diversity Inclusion (8.6), Health Wellbeing (8.4) and Safety Commitment (9.2). Our 2023 results were consistent with our strong 2022 results, with scores in three categories flat year-over-year and our Diversity Inclusion score decreasing slightly from 8.7 to 8.6. Our results placed us in the top 10 percent of the Peakon Benchmark for Commercial and Professional Services Companies for the Engagement and Health Wellbeing categories and in the top 25 percent of the Diversity Inclusion category; there is no benchmark reference for our Safety category. To provide an open and frequent line of communication for all employees, we host town hall meetings and quarterly all employee conference calls, and utilize Workplace, a virtual collaboration platform for our employees, to engage with our full team. The Company also sponsors the United Compassion Fund, an employee-funded 501(c)(3) charity that provides financial assistance to fellow employees in need. In 2023, employees voluntarily donated approximately $1.6 million to the fund, and employees received 469 grants totaling approximately $1.9 million. Training and development: The Company is committed to the continual development of its employees. We aim for all new hires to attend JumpSTART, a new hire orientation, to quickly acclimate them to our culture, as well as applicable new hires to attend Center of Excellence (job related) training within 90 days of hire. We offer a wide array of training solutions (instructor led in-person, virtual, digital, hands-on, e-learning and experience maps) for further development of our employees to help them achieve their career goals. In addition, as we did in 2023, we aim to regularly develop new training programs, launch pilot programs and expand leadership opportunities for our employees. In 2023, our employees enhanced their skills through approximately 825,000 hours of training, including safety training, sales and leadership training and equipment-related training from our suppliers. Our performance process encourages employee check-ins throughout the year to discuss performance and career goals, as well as development opportunities at all levels across the Company. Strategy For the past several years, as we continued to manage the impact of global economic conditions and COVID-19, we executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. Our general strategy focuses on profitability and return on invested capital, and, in particular, calls for: A consistently superior standard of service to customers , often provided through a single lead contact who can coordinate the cross-selling of the various services we offer throughout our network. We utilize a proprietary software application, Total Control , which provides our key customers with a single in-house software application that enables them to monitor and manage all their equipment needs. Total Control is a unique customer offering 4 Table of Contents that enables us to develop strong, long-term relationships with our larger customers. Our digital capabilities, including our Total Control platform, allow our sales teams to provide contactless end-to-end customer service; The further optimization of our customer mix and fleet mix, with a dual objective : to enhance our performance in serving our current customer base, and to focus on the accounts and customer types that are best suited to our strategy for profitable growth. We believe these efforts will lead to even better service of our target accounts, primarily large construction and industrial customers, as well as select local contractors. Our fleet team's analyses are aligned with these objectives to identify trends in equipment categories and define action plans that can generate improved returns; A continued focus on Lean management techniques, including kaizen processes focused on continuous improvement . We have a dedicated team responsible for reducing waste in our operational processes, with the objectives of: condensing the cycle time associated with preparing equipment for rent; optimizing our resources for delivery and pickup of equipment; improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our repair and maintenance operations; and implementing customer service best practices; The continued expansion and cross-selling of adjacent specialty and services products, which enables us to provide a "one-stop" shop for our customers . We believe that the expansion of our specialty business, as exhibited by our acquisition of General Finance Corporation ( General Finance ) in May 2021, as well as our tools and onsite services offerings, will further position United Rentals as a single source provider of total jobsite solutions through our extensive product and service resources and technology offerings; and The pursuit of strategic acquisitions to continue to expand our core equipment rental business, as exhibited by our recently completed acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Strategic acquisitions allow us to invest our capital to expand our business, further driving our ability to accomplish our strategic goals. Industry Overview and Economic Outlook United Rentals serves the following three principal end-markets for equipment rental in North America: industrial and other non-construction; commercial (or private non-residential) construction; and residential construction, which includes remodeling. We also have a limited presence in Europe, Australia and New Zealand. See Item 2 Properties for further geographical detail on our rental network. In 2023, based on our classification of the vertical market segments in which our equipment was used: Industrial and other non-construction rentals represented approximately 49 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals to manufacturers, energy companies, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, shipbuilders, utilities, retailers and infrastructure entities; Commercial construction rentals represented approximately 46 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals related to the construction and remodeling of facilities for office space, lodging, healthcare, entertainment and other commercial purposes; and Residential rentals represented approximately five percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals of equipment for the construction and renovation of homes. Based on industry estimates from the ARA, 2023 North American equipment rental industry revenue grew an estimated 12 percent year-over-year. In 2023, our full year rental revenue increased by 19.3 percent year-over-year, which included the impact of the Ahern Rentals acquisition that was completed in December 2022 and is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. The impact of the Ahern Rentals acquisition on our equipment rentals revenue is primarily reflected in the year-over-year increase in average OEC of 21.9 percent for the year ended December 31, 2023. On a pro forma basis including the pre-acquisition results of Ahern Rentals, year-over-year, equipment rentals revenue increased 11.3 percent, primarily reflecting an increase in average OEC of 10.4 percent. Our estimated North American market share of approximately 15 percent as of December 31, 2023 did not change materially from our market share as of December 31, 2022, which included the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals as the acquisition was completed in 2022. Competitive Advantages We believe that we benefit from the following competitive advantages: Large and Diverse Rental Fleet . Our large and diverse fleet allows us to serve large customers that require substantial quantities and/or wide varieties of equipment. We believe our ability to serve such customers should allow us to improve our performance and enhance our market leadership position. 5 Table of Contents We manage our rental fleet, which is the largest and most comprehensive in the industry, utilizing a life-cycle approach that focuses on satisfying customer demand and optimizing utilization levels. As part of this life-cycle approach, we closely monitor repair and maintenance expense and can anticipate, based on our extensive experience with a large and diverse fleet, the optimum time to dispose of an asset. Significant Purchasing Power . We purchase large amounts of equipment, contractor supplies and other items, which enables us to negotiate favorable pricing, warranty and other terms with our vendors. National Account Program . Our national account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large companies, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. National accounts are generally defined as customers with potential annual equipment rental spend of at least $500,000 or customers doing business in multiple states. We offer our national account customers the benefits of a consistent level of service across North America, a wide selection of equipment and a single point of contact for all their equipment needs. National accounts are a subset of key accounts, which are our accounts that are managed by a single point of contact. Establishing a single point of contact for our key accounts helps us provide customer service management that is more consistent and satisfactory. Operating Efficiencies . We benefit from the following operating efficiencies: Equipment Sharing Among Branches . Each branch within a region can access equipment located elsewhere in the region. This fleet sharing increases equipment utilization because equipment that is idle at one branch can be marketed and rented through other branches. Additionally, fleet sharing allows us to be more disciplined with our capital spend. Customer Care Center . We have a Customer Care Center ("CCC") in Charlotte, North Carolina that handles all telephone calls to our customer service telephone line, 1-800-UR-RENTS. The CCC handles many of the 1-800-UR-RENTS telephone calls without having to route them to individual branches, and allows us to provide a more uniform quality experience to customers, manage fleet sharing more effectively and free up branch employee time. Consolidation of Common Functions . We reduce costs through the consolidation of functions 