Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 8 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2 Properties 19 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4 (Removed and Reserved) 20 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B Other Information 94 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 95 Item 11 Executive Compensation 95 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 95 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 95 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 95 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 96 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as believe, expect, may, will, should, seek, on-track, plan, project, forecast, intend or anticipate, or the negative thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy or outlook. You are cautioned that our business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and, consequently, our actual results may differ materially from those projected. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, but are not limited to, the following: the possibility that companies that we have acquired or may acquire, including BakerCorp International Holdings, Inc. ( BakerCorp ) and Vander Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries ( BlueLine ), could have undiscovered liabilities or involve other unexpected costs, may strain our management capabilities or may be difficult to integrate; the cyclical nature of our business, which is highly sensitive to North American construction and industrial activities; if construction or industrial activity decline, our revenues and, because many of our costs are fixed, our profitability may be adversely affected; our significant indebtedness (which totaled $11.4 billion at December 31, 2019 ) requires us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow for debt service and can constrain our flexibility in responding to unanticipated or adverse business conditions; inability to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us, or at all; incurrence of additional debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness; noncompliance with financial or other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in our lenders terminating the agreements and requiring us to repay outstanding borrowings; restrictive covenants and amount of borrowings permitted in our debt instruments, which can limit our financial and operational flexibility; overcapacity of fleet in the equipment rental industry; inability to benefit from government spending, including spending associated with infrastructure projects; fluctuations in the price of our common stock and inability to complete stock repurchases in the time frame and/or on the terms anticipated; rates we charge and time utilization we achieve being less than anticipated; inability to manage credit risk adequately or to collect on contracts with a large number of customers; inability to access the capital that our businesses or growth plans may require; incurrence of impairment charges; trends in oil and natural gas could adversely affect the demand for our services and products; the fact that our holding company structure requires us to depend in part on distributions from subsidiaries and such distributions could be limited by contractual or legal restrictions; increases in our loss reserves to address business operations or other claims and any claims that exceed our established levels of reserves; incurrence of additional expenses (including indemnification obligations) and other costs in connection with litigation, regulatory and investigatory matters; the outcome or other potential consequences of regulatory matters and commercial litigation; shortfalls in our insurance coverage; our charter provisions as well as provisions of certain debt agreements and our significant indebtedness may have the effect of making more difficult or otherwise discouraging, delaying or deterring a takeover or other change of control of us; turnover in our management team and inability to attract and retain key personnel; costs we incur being more than anticipated, and the inability to realize expected savings in the amounts or time frames planned; dependence on key suppliers to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business on acceptable terms; inability to sell our new or used fleet in the amounts, or at the prices, we expect; competition from existing and new competitors; risks related to security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, failure to protect personal information, compliance with data protection laws and other significant disruptions in our information technology systems; the costs of complying with environmental, safety and foreign law and regulations, as well as other risks associated with non-U.S. operations, including currency exchange risk (including as a result of Brexit), and tariffs; labor disputes, work stoppages or other labor difficulties, which may impact our productivity, and potential enactment of new legislation or other changes in law affecting our labor relations or operations generally; increases in our maintenance and replacement costs and/or decreases in the residual value of our equipment; 1 Table of Contents the effect of changes in tax law; and other factors discussed under Item 1A-Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this annual report. We make no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date any such statement is made. 2 Table of Contents PART I United Rentals, Inc., incorporated in Delaware in 1997, is principally a holding company. We primarily conduct our operations through our wholly owned subsidiary, United Rentals (North America), Inc., and its subsidiaries. As used in this report, the term Holdings refers to United Rentals, Inc., the term URNA refers to United Rentals (North America), Inc., and the terms the Company, United Rentals, we, us, and our refer to United Rentals, Inc. and its subsidiaries, in each case unless otherwise indicated. Unless otherwise indicated, the information under Items 1, 1A and 2 is as of January 1, 2020 . Item 1. Business United Rentals is the largest equipment rental company in the world, operates throughout the United States and Canada, and has a limited presence in Europe. The table below presents key information about our business as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 . Our business is discussed in more detail below. The data below should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our Management s Discussion and Analysis and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp International Holdings, Inc. ( BakerCorp ) and Vander Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries ("BlueLine") in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. The results of BakerCorp and BlueLine subsequent to their acquisition dates are reflected in the table below. 1 Table of Contents 2019 2018 PERFORMANCE MEASURES Total revenues (in millions) $9,351 $8,047 Equipment rental revenue percent of total revenues 85% 86% Equipment rental revenue variance components: Year-over-year change in average OEC 17.7% 20.3% Assumed year-over-year inflation impact (1) (1.5)% (1.5)% Fleet productivity (2) (2.2)% 1.9% Contribution from ancillary and re-rent revenue (3) 0.8% 0.7% Total equipment rental revenue variance 14.8% 21.4% *Pro forma equipment rentals variance components (4): Year-over-year change in average OEC 4.9% 6.6% Assumed year-over-year inflation impact (1) (1.5)% (1.5)% Fleet productivity (2) 0.6% 5.0% Contribution from ancillary and re-rent revenue (3) 0.1% 0.4% Total equipment rental revenue variance 4.1% 10.5% Key account percent of equipment rental revenue 72% 71% National account percent of equipment rental revenue 43% 44% FLEET Fleet original equipment cost ( OEC ) (in billions) $14.63 $14.18 Equipment classes 4,000 3,800 Equipment units 665,000 660,000 Fleet age in months 49.5 47.9 Percent of fleet that is current on manufacturer's recommended maintenance 81% 82% Equipment rental revenue percent by fleet type: General construction and industrial equipment 43% 44% Aerial work platforms 28% 28% General tools and light equipment 8% 8% Power and HVAC (heating, ventilating and air conditioning) equipment 8% 8% Trench safety equipment 6% 6% Fluid solutions equipment 7% 6% LOCATIONS/PERSONNEL Rental locations 1,175 1,197 Approximate number of branches per district 4-11 5-10 Approximate number of districts per region 4-9 6-10 Total employees 19,100 18,500 INDUSTRY Estimated North American market share (5) 13% 13% Estimated North American equipment rental industry revenue growth 5% 7% United Rentals equipment pro forma rental revenue increase (4) 4.1% 10.5% 2020 projected North American industry equipment rental revenue growth 3% - CUSTOMERS/SUPPLIERS Largest customer percent of total revenues 1% 1% Top 10 customers percent of total revenues 4% 5% Largest supplier percent of capital expenditures 12% 15% Top 10 supplier percent of capital expenditures 52% 53% 2 Table of Contents (1) Reflects the estimated impact of inflation on the revenue productivity of fleet based on OEC, which is recorded at cost. (2) Reflects the combined impact of changes in rental rates, time utilization, and mix that contribute to the variance in owned equipment rental revenue. See note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the different types of equipment rentals revenue. Rental rate changes are calculated based on the year-over-year variance in average contract rates, weighted by the prior period revenue mix. Time utilization is calculated by dividing the amount of time an asset is on rent by the amount of time the asset has been owned during the year. Mix includes the impact of changes in customer, fleet, geographic and segment mix. (3) Reflects the combined impact of changes in the other types of equipment rentals revenue (see note 3 for further detail), excluding owned equipment rental revenue. (4) As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Additionally, we completed the acquisition of NES Rentals Holdings II, Inc. ( NES ) and Neff Corporation ("Neff") in April 2017 and October 2017, respectively. The pro forma information includes the standalone, pre-acquisition results of NES, Neff, BakerCorp and BlueLine. (5) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. Strategy For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2020 , we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: A consistently superior standard of service to customers , often provided through a single point of contact; The further optimization of our customer mix and fleet mix, with a dual objective: to enhance our performance in serving our current customer base, and to focus on the accounts and customer types that are best suited to our strategy for profitable growth. We believe these efforts will lead to even better service of our target accounts, primarily large construction and industrial customers, as well as select local contractors. Our fleet team's analyses are aligned with these objectives to identify trends in equipment categories and define action plans that can generate improved returns; A continued focus on Lean management techniques, including kaizen processes focused on continuous improvement . We continue to implement Lean kaizen processes across our branch network, with the objectives of: reducing the cycle time associated with renting our equipment to customers; improving invoice accuracy and service quality; reducing the elapsed time for equipment pickup and delivery; and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our repair and maintenance operations; A continued focus on Project XL, which is a set of eight specific work streams focused on driving profitable growth through revenue opportunities and generating incremental profitability through cost savings across our business; The continued expansion of our trench, power and fluid solutions footprint, as well as our tools and onsite services offerings, and the cross-selling of these services throughout our network, as exhibited by our recent acquisition of BakerCorp discussed above. We plan to open at least 25 specialty rental branches/tool hubs/onsite services locations in 2020 and continue to invest in specialty rental fleet to further position United Rentals as a single source provider of total jobsite solutions through our extensive product and service resources and technology offerings; and The pursuit of strategic acquisitions to continue to expand our core equipment rental business , as exhibited by our recently completed acquisitions of NES, Neff and BlueLine. Strategic acquisitions allow us to invest our capital to expand our business, further driving our ability to accomplish our strategic goals. Industry Overview and Economic Outlook United Rentals serves the following three principal end markets for equipment rental in North America: industrial and other non-construction; commercial (or private non-residential) construction; and residential construction, which includes remodeling. As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in July 2018, we completed the acquisition of BakerCorp, which allowed for our entry into select European markets (the acquisition added 11 European locations in France, 3 Table of Contents Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands to our branch network). In 2019 , based on an analysis of our charge account customers Standard Industrial Classification ( SIC ) codes: Industrial and other non-construction rentals represented approximately 50 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals to manufacturers, energy companies, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, shipbuilders, utilities, retailers and infrastructure entities; Commercial construction rentals represented approximately 46 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals related to the construction and remodeling of facilities for office space, lodging, healthcare, entertainment and other commercial purposes; and Residential rentals represented approximately four percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals of equipment for the construction and renovation of homes. We estimate that, based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"), 2019 North American equipment rental industry revenue grew approximately 5 percent year-over-year, with higher growth in the U.S. than Canada. In 2019 , our full year rental revenue increased by 14.8 percent year-over-year, including the impact of the BakerCorp and BlueLine acquisitions. On a pro forma basis including the standalone, pre-acquisition results of BakerCorp and BlueLine, equipment rental revenue increased 4.1 percent year-over-year. In 2020 , based on our analyses of industry forecasts and macroeconomic indicators, we expect that the majority of our end markets will continue to experience solid demand for equipment rental services. Specifically, we expect that North American industry equipment rental revenue will increase approximately 3 percent, with similar growth expected in the U.S. and Canada. Competitive Advantages We believe that we benefit from the following competitive advantages: Large and Diverse Rental Fleet . Our large and diverse fleet allows us to serve large customers that require substantial quantities and/or wide varieties of equipment. We believe our ability to serve such customers should allow us to improve our performance and enhance our market leadership position. We manage our rental fleet, which is the largest and most comprehensive in the industry, utilizing a life-cycle approach that focuses on satisfying customer demand and optimizing utilization levels. As part of this life-cycle approach, we closely monitor repair and maintenance expense and can anticipate, based on our extensive experience with a large and diverse fleet, the optimum time to dispose of an asset. Significant Purchasing Power . We purchase large amounts of equipment, contractor supplies and other items, which enables us to negotiate favorable pricing, warranty and other terms with our vendors. National Account Program . Our national account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large companies, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. National accounts are generally defined as customers with potential annual equipment rental spend of at least $500,000 or customers doing business in multiple states. We offer our national account customers the benefits of a consistent level of service across North America, a wide selection of equipment and a single point of contact for all their equipment needs. National accounts are a subset of key accounts, which are our accounts that are managed by a single point of contact. Establishing a single point of contact for our key accounts helps us provide customer service management that is more consistent and satisfactory. Operating Efficiencies . We benefit from the following operating efficiencies: Equipment Sharing Among Branches . Each branch within a region can access equipment located elsewhere in the region. This fleet sharing increases equipment utilization because equipment that is idle at one branch can be marketed and rented through other branches. Additionally, fleet sharing allows us to be more disciplined with our capital spend. Customer Care Center . We have a Customer Care Center ("CCC") with locations in Tampa, Florida and Charlotte, North Carolina that handles all telephone calls to our customer service telephone line, 1-800-UR-RENTS. The CCC handles many of the 1-800-UR-RENTS telephone calls without having to route them to individual branches, and allows us to provide a more uniform quality experience to customers, manage fleet sharing more effectively and free up branch employee time. Consolidation of Common Functions . We reduce costs through the consolidation of functions that are common to our branches, such as accounts payable, payroll, benefits and risk management, information technology and credit and collection. 4 Table of Contents Our information technology systems , some of which are proprietary and some of which are licensed, support our operations. Our information technology infrastructure facilitates our ability to make rapid and informed decisions, respond quickly to changing market conditions and share rental equipment among branches. We have an in-house team of information technology specialists that supports our systems. Our information technology systems are accessible to management, branch and call center personnel. Leveraging information technology to achieve greater efficiencies and improve customer service is a critical element of our strategy. Each branch is equipped with one or more workstations that are electronically linked to our other locations and to our data center. Rental transactions can be entered at these workstations, or through various mobile applications, to be processed on a real-time basis. Our information technology systems: enable branch personnel to (i) determine equipment availability, (ii) access all equipment within a geographic region and arrange for equipment to be delivered from anywhere in the region directly to the customer, (iii) monitor business activity on a real-time basis and (iv) obtain customized reports on a wide range of operating and financial data, including equipment utilization, rental rate trends, maintenance histories and customer transaction histories; allow our mobile sales and service team members to support our customers efficiently while in the field; permit customers to access their accounts online; and allow management to obtain a wide range of operational and financial data. We have a fully functional back-up facility designed to enable business continuity for our core rental and financial systems in the event that our main computer facility becomes inoperative. This back-up facility also allows us to perform system upgrades and maintenance without interfering with the normal ongoing operation of our information technology systems. Strong Brand Recognition . As the largest equipment rental company in the world, we have strong brand recognition, which helps us attract new customers and build customer loyalty. Geographic and Customer Diversity . We have 1,175 rental locations in the U.S., Canada and Europe. Our North American network operates in 49 U.S. states and every Canadian province, and serves customers that range from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. The recently completed BakerCorp acquisition added 11 European locations in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands to our branch network. We believe that our geographic and customer diversity provides us with many advantages including: enabling us to better serve national account customers with multiple locations; helping us achieve favorable resale prices by allowing us to access used equipment resale markets across North America; and reducing our dependence on any particular customer. Our foreign operations are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. These include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates and (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions. For additional financial information regarding our geographic diversity, see note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. Strong and Motivated Branch Management . Each of our full-service branches has a manager who is supervised by a district manager. We believe that our managers are among the most knowledgeable and experienced in the industry, and we empower them, within budgetary guidelines, to make day-to-day decisions concerning branch matters. Each regional office has a management team that monitors branch, district and regional performance with extensive systems and controls, including performance benchmarks and detailed monthly operating reviews. Employee Training Programs . We are dedicated to providing training and development opportunities to our employees. In 2019 , our employees enhanced their skills through over 700,000 hours of training, including safety training, sales and leadership training, equipment-related training from our suppliers and online courses covering a variety of relevant subjects. Risk Management and Safety Programs . Our risk management department is staffed by experienced professionals directing the procurement of insurance, managing claims made against the Company, and developing loss prevention programs to address workplace safety, driver safety and customer safety. The department s primary focus is on the protection of our employees and assets, as well as protecting the Company from liability for accidental loss. 5 Table of Contents Segment Information We have two reportable segments (i) general rentals and (ii) trench, power and fluid solutions. Segment financial information is presented in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. The general rentals segment includes the rental of construction, aerial and industrial equipment, general tools and light equipment, and related services and activities. The general rentals segment s customers include construction and industrial companies, manufacturers, utilities, municipalities and homeowners. The general rentals segment comprises eleven geographic regions Carolinas, Gulf South, Industrial (which serves the geographic Gulf region and has a strong industrial presence), Mid-Atlantic, Mid Central, Midwest, Northeast, Pacific West, South, Southeast and Western Canada and operates throughout the United States and Canada. We periodically review the size and geographic scope of our regions, and have occasionally reorganized the regions to create a more balanced and effective structure. The trench, power and fluid solutions segment includes the rental of specialty construction products and related services. The trench, power and fluid solutions segment is comprised of (i) the Trench Safety region, which rents trench safety equipment such as trench shields, aluminum hydraulic shoring systems, slide rails, crossing plates, construction lasers and line testing equipment for underground work, (ii) the Power and HVAC region, which rents power and HVAC equipment such as portable diesel generators, electrical distribution equipment, and temperature control equipment including heating and cooling equipment, and (iii) the Fluid Solutions and (iv) Fluid Solutions Europe regions, both of which rent equipment primarily used for fluid containment, transfer and treatment. The trench, power and fluid solutions segment s customers include construction companies involved in infrastructure projects, municipalities and industrial companies. This segment operates throughout the United States and in Canada and Europe. Products and Services Our principal products and services are described below. Equipment Rental . We offer for rent approximately 4,000 classes of rental equipment on an hourly, daily, weekly or monthly basis. The types of equipment that we offer include general construction and industrial equipment; aerial work platforms; trench safety equipment; power and HVAC equipment; fluid solutions equipment; and general tools and light equipment. Sales of Rental Equipment . We routinely sell used rental equipment and invest in new equipment in order to manage repairs and maintenance costs, as well as the composition and size of our fleet. We also sell used equipment in response to customer demand for the equipment. Consistent with the life-cycle approach we use to manage our fleet, the rate at which we replace used equipment with new equipment depends on a number of factors, including changing general economic conditions, growth opportunities, the market for used equipment, the age of our fleet and the need to adjust fleet composition to meet customer demand. We utilize many channels to sell used equipment: through our national and export sales forces, which can access many resale markets across our network; at auction; through brokers; and directly to manufacturers. We also sell used equipment through our website, which includes an online database of used equipment available for sale. Sales of New Equipment . We sell equipment such as aerial lifts, reach forklifts, telehandlers, compressors and generators from many leading equipment manufacturers. The type of new equipment that we sell varies by location. Contractor Supplies Sales . We sell a variety of contractor supplies including construction consumables, tools, small equipment and safety supplies. Service and Other Revenues . We offer repair and maintenance services and sell parts for equipment that is owned by our customers. Customers Our customer base is highly diversified and ranges from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. Our customer base varies by branch and is determined by several factors, including the equipment mix and marketing focus of the particular branch as well as the business composition of the local economy, including construction opportunities with different customers. Our customers include: construction companies that use equipment for constructing and renovating commercial buildings, warehouses, industrial and manufacturing plants, office parks, airports, residential developments and other facilities; industrial companies such as manufacturers, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship builders and utilities that use equipment for plant maintenance, upgrades, expansion and construction; 6 Table of Contents municipalities that require equipment for a variety of purposes; and homeowners and other individuals that use equipment for projects that range from simple repairs to major renovations. Our business is seasonal, with demand for our rental equipment tending to be lower in the winter months. Sales and Marketing We market our products and service