Item 1. Business Forward-Looking Statements THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION APPEARS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995: This report contains forward-looking statements about U.S. Bancorp ( U.S. Bancorp or the Company ). Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements and are based on the information available to, and assumptions and estimates made by, management as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements cover, among other things, future economic conditions and the anticipated future revenue, expenses, financial condition, asset quality, capital and liquidity levels, plans, prospects and operations of U.S. Bancorp. Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipates, targets, expects, hopes, estimates, projects, forecasts, intends, plans, goals, believes, continue and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as will, may, might, should, would and could. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in forward-looking statements, including the following risks and uncertainties: Deterioration in general business and economic conditions or turbulence in domestic or global financial markets, which could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s revenues and the values of its assets and liabilities, reduce the availability of funding to certain financial institutions, lead to a tightening of credit, and increase stock price volatility; Turmoil and volatility in the financial services industry, including failures or rumors of failures of other depository institutions, which could affect the ability of depository institutions, including U.S. Bank National Association ("USBNA"), to attract and retain depositors, and could affect the ability of financial services providers, including U.S. Bancorp, to borrow or raise capital; Actions taken by governmental agencies to stabilize the financial system and the effectiveness of such actions; Changes to regulatory capital, liquidity and resolution-related requirements applicable to large banking organizations in response to recent developments affecting the banking sector; Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies or practices, including capital and liquidity requirements, and the enforcement and interpretation of such laws and regulations, and U.S. Bancorp s ability to address or satisfy those requirements and other requirements or conditions imposed by regulatory entities; Changes in interest rates; Increases in unemployment rates; Deterioration in the credit quality of U.S. Bancorp's loan portfolios or in the value of the collateral securing those loans; Risks related to originating and selling mortgages, including repurchase and indemnity demands, and related to U.S. Bancorp s role as a loan servicer; Impacts of current, pending or future litigation and governmental proceedings; Increased competition from both banks and non-banks; Effects of climate change and related physical and transition risks; Changes in customer behavior and preferences and the ability to implement technological changes to respond to customer needs and meet competitive demands; Breaches in data security; Failures or disruptions in or breaches of U.S. Bancorp s operational, technology or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties; Failures to safeguard personal information; Impacts of pandemics, natural disasters, terrorist activities, civil unrest, international hostilities and geopolitical events; Impacts of supply chain disruptions, rising inflation, slower growth or a recession; Failure to execute on strategic or operational plans; 2 Effects of mergers and acquisitions and related integration; Effects of critical accounting policies and judgments; Effects of changes in or interpretations of tax laws and regulations; Management s ability to effectively manage credit risk, market risk, operational risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and reputation risk; and The risks and uncertainties more fully discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors of the 2023 Annual Report. In addition, U.S. Bancorp s acquisition of MUFG Union Bank, N.A. ( MUB ) presents risks and uncertainties, including, among others: the risk that any revenue synergies and other anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized or may take longer than anticipated to be realized. In addition, factors other than these risks also could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s results, and the reader should not consider these risks to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and U.S. Bancorp undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events. General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, serving millions of local, national and global customers. U.S. Bancorp is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the BHC Act ), and has elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the BHC Act. The Company provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash management, capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing. U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiary, USBNA, is engaged in the general banking business, principally in domestic markets, and holds all of the Company s consolidated deposits of $512.3 billion at December 31, 2023. USBNA provides a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to large national customers operating in specific industries targeted by the Company, such as healthcare, utilities, oil and gas, and state and municipal government. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, lease financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other products. Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate and governmental entity customers. U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations. Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer investment and insurance products to the Company s customers principally within its domestic markets, and fund administration services to a broad range of mutual and other funds. Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 2,274 banking offices across 26 states as of December 31, 2023, principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the United States. A significant percentage of consumer transactions are completed using USBNA's digital banking services, both online and through its digital app. The Company operates a network of 4,524 ATMs as of December 31, 2023, and provides 24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices throughout the Company s domestic markets. Lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. The Company s wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides domestic merchant processing services directly to merchants. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Elavon provide similar merchant services in Canada and segments of Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust and fund administration services in Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to the Company. MUFG Union Bank Acquisition On December 1, 2022, the Company acquired MUB s core regional banking franchise from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ("MUFG"). Pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of MUB for a purchase price consisting of $5.5 billion in cash and approximately 44 million shares of the Company s common stock. The Company also received additional MUB cash of $3.5 billion upon 3 completion of the acquisition, which is required to be repaid to MUFG on or prior to the fifth anniversary date of the completion of the purchase. On August 3, 2023, the Company completed a debt/equity conversion with MUFG. As a result, the Company repaid $936 million of its debt obligation from the proceeds of the issuance of 24 million shares of common stock of the Company to an affiliate of MUFG (the Debt/Equity Conversion ). After the Debt/Equity Conversion, the Company had a remaining repayment obligation to MUFG of $2.6 billion. On May 26, 2023, the Company merged MUB into USBNA, the Company s primary banking subsidiary. The Company s 2023 results reflect the full financial results of the acquired business. Business Segments The Company s major lines of business are Wealth, Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking, Consumer and Business Banking, Payment Services, and Treasury and Corporate Support. Wealth, Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking Wealth, Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking provides core banking, specialized lending, transaction and payment processing, capital markets, asset management, and brokerage and investment related services to wealth, middle market, large corporate, government and institutional clients. Wealth, Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking contributed $3.6 billion of the Company s net income in 2023, an increase of $202 million (6.0 percent) compared with 2022. Consumer and Business Banking Consumer and Business Banking comprises consumer banking, small business banking and consumer lending. Products and services are delivered through banking offices, telephone servicing and sales, online services, direct mail, ATM processing, mobile devices, distributed mortgage loan officers, and intermediary relationships including auto dealerships, mortgage banks, and strategic business partners. Consumer and Business Banking contributed $2.2 billion of the Company s net income in 2023, an increase of $378 million (20.6 percent) compared with 2022. Payment Services Payment Services includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards, debit cards, corporate, government and purchasing card services and merchant processing. Payment Services contributed $1.2 billion of the Company s net income in 2023, a decrease of $150 million (11.2 percent) compared with 2022. Treasury and Corporate Support Treasury and Corporate Support includes the Company s investment portfolios, funding, capital management, interest rate risk management, income taxes not allocated to the business lines, including most investments in tax-advantaged projects, and the residual aggregate of those expenses associated with corporate activities that are managed on a consolidated basis. Treasury and Corporate Support recorded a net loss of $1.5 billion of the Company s net income in 2023, a decrease of $826 million compared with 2022. Additional information regarding the Company s business segments can be found on pages 56 to 58 of the Company s 2023 Annual Report under the heading Line of Business Financial Review, which is incorporated herein by reference. Human Capital The Company s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract, develop and retain skilled employees. The Company recognizes that supporting, engaging and continuously upskilling its workforce is key to meeting evolving corporate and customer needs. To further those efforts, the Company is dedicated to fostering a diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment; providing pay that is competitive and fair, as well as other benefits and programs that promote wellness; and supporting employees professional development through programs that promote engagement, learning and productivity. As of December 31, 2023, the Company employed a total of 75,465 employees globally. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Company continues to expand its talent pipeline to increase the representation of women at leadership levels and people of color at all levels, including at the executive and senior management levels. The Company s hiring program strives to include the inclusion of at least one woman or one person of color on interview slates for all roles at the Company. In addition, the Company offers various mentorship, leadership and development opportunities that enable participants, including women and people of color, to enhance networks, key skills and work experiences. The Company also provides inclusive leadership learning journeys designed to coach and develop its leaders in driving employee and team performance through inclusive behaviors and best practices. To help create and sustain an inclusive workforce, the Company sponsors Business Resource Groups ( BRGs ), including Asian heritage, Black heritage, Nosotros Latinos, Indigenous Peoples, U.S. Bank women, Spectrum LGBTQ, Proud to Serve: Military and Veterans, European Inclusion, and Disability employee groups, with chapters across the Company and membership available to all employees. These BRGs enable employees from a wide variety of backgrounds, identities and perspectives to connect in ways that empower them to contribute, innovate and grow. Through these BRGs, employees can come together to discuss topics of interest to them, develop professional skills and build overall employee engagement, 4 helping to create and sustain an inclusive workforce that drives business growth and propels accountability for diversity and inclusion within the Company. These programs, practices and policies are part of the Company s strategy to have an ethnically and gender diverse employee base. As of December 31, 2023, of the Company s employees in the United States, 57 percent were women and 39 percent were people of color. As of December 31, 2023, 34 percent of the Company s employees at the executive and senior management levels in the United States were women and 21 percent were people of color. In addition, as of December 31, 2023, of the Company s 13 directors, 5 were women and 4 were people of color. All diversity information is based on information self-disclosed by the employee or director to the Company. To provide transparency on progress relating to its commitment to seek and promote diverse talent, the Company publicly discloses consolidated EEO-1 data on its website. Equitable and Competitive Compensation, Health Wellness Programs Maintaining competitive compensation and benefits practices is a continued focus for the Company, with periodic peer and benchmarking reviews used to assist with competitive alignment and employee retention. The Company remains committed to fair pay and continues to prioritize pay equity efforts. To further the Company s efforts to provide fair and equitable compensation to its employees, the Company has processes to address any gender and racial pay inequities identified within its workforce. This work starts with fair hiring practices. The Company also has guidelines in place for both internal and external job postings to assist the Company s leaders in making fair compensation decisions based on the demands and responsibilities of each role, candidate experience, and pay related to comparable internal positions. As part of the Company's efforts to enhance pay transparency, all open positions in the United States have a disclosed compensation range. The Company conducts periodic reviews of base pay of employee groups across gender and racial categories with the assistance of an independent third-party consultant. Should gender or race-based disparities in pay be identified, the Company adjusts compensation levels to eliminate those disparities. In the 2023 review, on average, employees of the Company in the United States who are women were paid greater than 99 percent of what their male counterparts were paid, and employees of the Company in the United States who are people of color were paid greater than 99 percent of what their white counterparts were paid, in each case taking into account several factors including comparable jobs, experience and location. The 2023 review excluded employees from the MUB acquisition who had not transitioned into the Company's pay structures. The Company also provides its employees with comprehensive benefits programs, including competitive healthcare, retirement, leave, recognition, wellness, disability, life insurance, time-off, flexible work, and educational assistance programs, based on the Company s recognition that such benefits are important to attract and retain employees. In addition to its competitive 401(k) matching program, the Company maintains an active cash balance pension program for its U.S. employees, including newly hired employees. The Company continues to support flexible work programs with remote and in-person work arrangements, providing additional optionality and flexibility for most employees, which helps the Company attract and retain talent. The Company continues to adapt and evolve its flexible work programs as it recognizes the changes to employee and customer priorities and its customers and employees' changing needs. Employee Engagement and Retention As part of its efforts to develop and retain skilled employees, the Company remains focused on monitoring employee engagement. The Company s employee listening program enables the Company to collect quantitative and qualitative feedback from employees on an ongoing basis, which then supports and informs the Company on human capital strategies and decisions. As part of its talent strategy, the Company strives to support continuous employee learning and development. The Company provides a number of talent development opportunities for employees to enhance skills that are critical in the current and future working environment and empowers employees to discover ways to thrive and grow their careers, which aligns with the Company s Employment Value Proposition. For example, the Company s learning programs include the Digital and Leadership Academies, which focus on digital and core leadership skill development. The Company continues to deploy cultural sensitivity and customer interaction training for its frontline employees that focuses on building skills to serve all the Company's customers with excellence. In addition, every employee is automatically included in the Company s Development Network that provides all employees with opportunities to network, learn, develop leadership skills and contribute to the Company and its communities. Succession planning and talent development processes remain a top priority for the Company along with continuous improvements to its training and development programs. During 2023, employees completed over 3 million hours of training through the Company s enterprise learning programs to better support their professional development and customer and business needs. Human Capital Governance The Company s Board of Directors oversees the Company s human capital management. The Board s Compensation and Human Resources Committee discharges the Board s oversight responsibilities relating to the Company s compensation programs and employee benefit plans, overseeing the Company s human capital strategy and talent management program and employee diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Coordinating with the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, the Board s Public Responsibility Committee also oversees the Company s diversity, equity 5 and inclusion strategy. The Company s Chief Human Resources Officer regularly reports to the Board s Compensation and Human Resources Committee on human capital matters such as human resource practices and programs, including employee benefits and compensation programs. To promote accountability for the Company s diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, the Company s Chief Diversity Officer reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and serves as a member of its senior management team. Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card companies and a variety of other financial services, advisory and technology companies. The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, including innovative ways that customers can make payments or manage their accounts, such as through the use of mobile payments, digital wallets or digital currencies. In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies, including by financial technology companies, or fintechs, which may offer bank-like products or services that compete directly with the Company s products and services. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience, including the ability to address customer needs by using technology to provide products and services that customers want to adopt. The Company s ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on its ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. For additional information relating to how the Company attracts and retains employees, see Human Capital above. Government Policies The operations of the Company s various businesses are affected by federal and state laws and legislative changes and by policies of various regulatory authorities of the numerous states in which they operate, the United States and foreign governments. These laws, rules and policies include, for example, statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve ), United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies. Supervision and Regulation U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies ( BHCs ) and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund (the DIF ) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC ), consumers, the stability of the financial system in the United States, and the health of the national economy, and not for investors in the Company. This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described below. General As a BHC, the Company is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. USBNA and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, examination and supervision primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC ) and also by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB ), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC ) in certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agencies generally include comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of the Company s and USBNA s business and condition, regular on-site examinations, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments and certain types of activities. If an applicable regulatory agency deems the Company to be operating in a manner that is inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices, such agency can require the entry into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which the Company would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. Supervision and examinations are confidential, and the outcomes of these actions generally are not made public. Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by the United States Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to the 6 Company and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. As a BHC with over $100 billion in total consolidated assets, the Company is subject to the Dodd-Frank Act s enhanced prudential standards, as applied to Category III institutions under the federal banking regulators rules that tailor how enhanced prudential standards apply to large U.S. banking organizations (the Tailoring Rules ). The Tailoring Rules also apply certain enhanced prudential standards to its subsidiary depository institution, USBNA, as described in more detail below. In connection with the Company s acquisition of MUB, the Company committed (the Federal Reserve Commitments ) to submit to the Federal Reserve quarterly implementation plans for complying with requirements applicable to Category II institutions ( i.e. , institutions with $700 billion or more in total assets or $75 billion or more in cross-jurisdictional activities). The Company also committed to meet requirements applicable to Category II institutions by the earlier of (i) the date required under the Tailoring Rules; and (ii) December 31, 2024, if the Federal Reserve notifies the Company by January 1, 2024, that the Company must comply with such rules. On October 16, 2023, the Federal Reserve granted the Company relief from both of these commitments. As a result, the Company will continue to be subject to the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements applicable to Category III institutions until otherwise required under the Tailoring Rules (i.e., until the Company s total average consolidated assets for the then most recent four quarters equal $700 billion or more or the amount of the Company s average cross-jurisdictional activities for the then most recent four quarters equals $75 billion or more). Supervisory Ratings Federal banking regulators regularly examine the Company and its insured depository institution subsidiary, USBNA. Following those exams, the Company (under the Federal Reserve s Large Financial Institution Rating System) and USBNA (under the CAMELS rating system) are assigned supervisory ratings. Disclosure of these ratings to third parties is not allowed without permission of the issuing regulator. A downgrade in these ratings could limit the Company s ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time, require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities or investments, affect USBNA s deposit insurance assessment rates, limit the Company's access to funding through government-sponsored liquidity programs, and impose additional recordkeeping and corporate governance requirements, as well as generally increase regulatory scrutiny of the Company. BHC Activities The Company is a BHC under the BHC Act and has elected to be a financial holding company ( FHC ). BHCs that qualify and elect to be treated as FHCs may engage in, and affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a BHC. If an FHC or a depository institution controlled by an FHC ceases to be well-capitalized or well-managed, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC and may place limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. See Permissible Business Activities below. Disclosure of any failure to meet these standards is not allowed without permission of the Federal Reserve. If the failure to meet these standards persists, the FHC may be required to divest its depository institution subsidiaries or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. In addition, if a depository institution controlled