Item 1. Business Forward-Looking Statements THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION APPEARS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995: This report contains forward-looking statements about U.S. Bancorp ( U.S. Bancorp or the Company ). Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements and are based on the information available to, and assumptions and estimates made by, management as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements cover, among other things, anticipated future revenue and expenses and the future plans and prospects of U.S. Bancorp. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Deterioration in general business and economic conditions or turbulence in domestic or global financial markets could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s revenues and the values of its assets and liabilities, reduce the availability of funding to certain financial institutions, lead to a tightening of credit, and increase stock price volatility. In addition, changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies or practices could affect U.S. Bancorp in substantial and unpredictable ways. U.S. Bancorp s results could also be adversely affected by changes in interest rates; deterioration in the credit quality of its loan portfolios or in the value of the collateral securing those loans; deterioration in the value of its investment securities; legal and regulatory developments; litigation; increased competition from both banks and non-banks; changes in the level of tariffs and other trade policies of the United States and its global trading partners; changes in customer behavior and preferences; breaches in data security; failures to safeguard personal information; effects of mergers and acquisitions and related integration; effects of critical accounting policies and judgments; and management s ability to effectively manage credit risk, market risk, operational risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and reputation risk. For discussion of these and other risks that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to the sections entitled Corporate Risk Profile on pages 36 to 56 and Risk Factors on pages 146 to 156 of the 2019 Annual Report. In addition, factors other than these risks also could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s results, and the reader should not consider these risks to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and U.S. Bancorp undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events. General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash management, capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing. U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association, is engaged in the general banking business, principally in domestic markets. U.S. Bank National Association, with $374 billion in deposits at December 31, 2019, provides a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to large national customers operating in specific industries targeted by the Company. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, lease financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other products. Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate customers. U.S. Bancorp s bank and 2 Table of Contents trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations. Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer investment and insurance products to the Company s customers principally within its domestic markets, and fund administration services to a broad range of mutual and other funds. Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 2,795 banking offices principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the United States, through on-line services and over mobile devices. The Company operates a network of 4,459 ATMs and provides 24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices throughout the Company s domestic markets. Lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides domestic merchant processing services directly to merchants and through a network of banking affiliations. Wholly-owned subsidiaries, and affiliates of Elavon, provide similar merchant services in Canada, Mexico and segments of Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust and fund administration services in Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to the Company. On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2019, U.S. Bancorp employed 69,651 people. Competition The commercial banking business is highly competitive. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card companies and a variety of other financial services, advisory and technology companies. In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. The Company s ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on its ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. Government Policies The operations of the Company s various businesses are affected by federal and state laws and legislative changes and by policies of various regulatory authorities, including the statutes, and the rules and policies of regulatory authorities, of the numerous states in which they operate, the United States and foreign governments. These laws, rules and policies include, for example, statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve ), United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies. Supervision and Regulation U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund (the DIF ) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC ), consumers, the stability of the financial system in the United States, and the health of the national economy, and not for investors in bank holding companies such as the Company. This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described below. 3 Table of Contents General As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act (the BHC Act ) and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. U.S. Bank National Association and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, examination and supervision primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC ) and also by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB ), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC ) in certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agency generally include comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of a bank holding company s or bank s business and condition, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments and certain types of activities. U.S. Bank National Association, the Company and the Company s non-bank affiliates must undergo regular on-site examinations by the appropriate regulatory agency, which examine for adherence to a range of legal and regulatory compliance requirements. If they deem the Company to be operating in a manner that is inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices, the applicable regulatory agencies can require the entry into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which the Company would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. Supervision and examinations are confidential, and the outcomes of these actions generally are not made public. Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by the United States Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. In May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (the EGRRCPA ) was signed into law. Among other regulatory changes, the EGRRCPA amends various sections of the Dodd-Frank Act, including section 165, which was revised to raise the asset thresholds for mandatory application of enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies from $50 billion to $250 billion. Bank holding companies with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including the Company, remain subject to the Dodd-Frank Act enhanced prudential standards requirements described below. The Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the EGRRCPA, however, mandates that the Federal Reserve tailor the enhanced prudential standards applicable to a banking holding company or category of bank holding companies based on several factors, including size, capital structure, complexity, and other risk-related factors. In October 2019, the federal banking regulators adopted two final rules (the Tailoring Rules ) that revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements for large United States banking organizations, including the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, and that tailored the application of the Federal Reserve s enhanced prudential standards to large banking organizations. The rules applicable to the Company and U.S. Bank National Association are described in more detail below. Supervisory Ratings Federal banking regulators regularly examine the Company and U.S. Bank National Association to evaluate their financial condition and monitor their compliance with laws and regulatory policies. Following those exams, the Company and U.S. Bank National Association are assigned supervisory ratings. These ratings are considered confidential supervisory information and disclosure to third parties is not allowed without permission of the issuing regulator. Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management practices may be incorporated into these supervisory ratings. A downgrade in these ratings could limit the Company s ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time, require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities or investments, affect U.S. Bank National Association s deposit insurance assessment rate, and impose additional recordkeeping and corporate governance requirements, as well as generally increase regulatory scrutiny of the Company. 4 Table of Contents In November 2018, the Federal Reserve adopted a new rating system, the Large Financial Institution Rating System ( LFI Rating System ), to align its supervisory rating system for large financial institutions, including the Company, with its current supervisory programs for these firms. As compared to the rating system it replaces, which will continue to be used for smaller bank holding companies, the LFI Rating System places a greater emphasis on capital and liquidity, including related planning and risk management practices. The Company will receive its first ratings under the LFI Rating System in 2020. These ratings will remain confidential. The Federal Reserve has also proposed guidance for the governance and controls component of the LFI Rating System that addresses the role of boards of directors as well as the responsibilities of members of senior and business line management and controls at large financial institutions. Bank Holding Company Activities The Company is a bank holding company under the BHC Act and has elected to be a financial holding company pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLBA ). Under the GLBA, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be treated as financial holding companies may engage in, and affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. Under the GLBA s system of functional regulation, the Federal Reserve acts as an umbrella regulator for the Company, and certain of the Company s non-bank subsidiaries are primarily regulated directly by additional agencies based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. If a financial holding company or a depository institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to be well-capitalized or well-managed, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the financial holding company and may place limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that financial holding companies are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. See Permissible Business Activities below. If the failure to meet these standards persists, the financial holding company may be required to divest its depository institution subsidiaries or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. In addition, if a depository institution controlled by a financial holding company does not receive a Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) rating of at least satisfactory at its most recent examination, the Federal Reserve will prohibit the financial holding company from conducting new business activities that financial holding companies are generally permitted to conduct and from making certain acquisitions. The Federal Reserve also requires bank holding companies to meet certain applicable capital and management standards. Failure by the Company to meet these standards could limit the Company from engaging in any new activity or acquiring other companies without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Permissible Business Activities As a financial holding company, the Company may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. Financial in nature activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the United States Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. Complementary activities are activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a safety and soundness risk. The Company generally is not required to obtain Federal Reserve approval to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve, as long as the Company meets the capital, managerial and CRA requirements to qualify as a financial holding company. However, the Company is required to receive approval for an acquisition in which the total consolidated assets to be acquired exceed $10 billion. Financial holding companies are also required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than five percent of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of an 5 Table of Contents unaffiliated bank holding company, bank or savings association. In addition, banks must receive approval before they may acquire, merge with, acquire substantially all of the assets of or assume any deposits of a bank or savings association and may be required to receive approval for acquisitions of other companies. Interstate Banking A bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years). Also, such an acquisition is not permitted if the bank holding company controls, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide, or, if the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial entry into the state, more than 30 percent of the deposits of insured depository institutions in the state (or any lesser or greater amount set by the state). Banks may merge across state lines to create interstate branches and are permitted to establish new branches in another state to the same extent as banks chartered by that state. Regulatory Approval for Acquisitions In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider a number of factors, including the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects (including current and projected capital ratios and levels); the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the CRA); the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities; and the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system. In addition, approval of interstate transactions requires that the acquiror satisfy regulatory standards for well-capitalized and well-managed institutions. Source of Strength The Company is required to act as a source of strength to U.S. Bank National Association, and to commit capital and financial resources to support this subsidiary in circumstances where it might not otherwise do so. Under these requirements, the Federal Reserve may in the future require the Company to provide financial assistance to U.S. Bank National Association, should it experience financial distress. Capital loans by the Company to U.S. Bank National Association would be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other debts of U.S. Bank National Association. In the event of the Company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the Company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of U.S. Bank National Association would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. The Federal Reserve is prohibited from requiring payment by a bank holding company to a depository institution if the functional regulator of the depository institution objects to the payment. In those cases, the Federal Reserve could instead require the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture. OCC Heightened Standards The OCC has issued guidelines establishing heightened standards for large national banks such as U.S. Bank National Association. The guidelines establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework for banks. The OCC may take action against institutions that fail to meet these standards. Enhanced Prudential Standards Under the Dodd-Frank Act, as modified by the EGRRCPA, and the Tailoring Rules, large bank holding companies, such as the Company, are subject to certain enhanced prudential standards based on the banking organization s size, status as a global systemically important bank, cross-jurisdictional activity, weighted short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets and off-balance sheet exposures. The prudential standards include enhanced risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements, enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, a requirement to submit a resolution plan, single-counterparty credit limits and stress tests. These standards also require the Federal Reserve to impose a maximum 15-to-1 debt-to-equity ratio on a bank holding company with total consolidated assets of $250 billion 6 Table of Contents or more, if the Financial Stability Oversight Council determines that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of such a debt-to-equity requirement would mitigate such risk. In addition, the Federal Reserve is required to establish early remediation requirements for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, but these requirements have not yet been finalized. Certain of the enhanced prudential standards applicable to the Company are described below in further detail, including changes that have been made to these requirements under the Tailoring Rules. Dividend Restrictions The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Typically, the majority of the Company s operating funds are received in the form of dividends paid to the Company by U.S. Bank National Association. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks. In general, dividends payable by U.S. Bank National Association and the Company s trust bank subsidiaries, as national banking associations, are limited by rules that compare dividends to net income for periods defined by regulation. The Company s ability to declare and pay dividends is also limited by Federal Reserve regulations and policy. Large bank holding companies such as the Company may generally only pay dividends and repurchase stock in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected. See Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review below for further details. The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC also have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise (including the Company and U.S. Bank National Association), if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. The Company and U.S. Bank National Association must maintain the applicable common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions, including dividends. For more information on the common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer and the stress buffer requirements that the Federal Reserve has proposed that would replace the common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer for bank holding companies, see Capital Requirements and Proposed Stress Buffer Requirements below, respectively. Capital Requirements The Company is subject to certain regulatory risk-based capital and leverage requirements under capital rules adopted by the Federal Reserve, and U.S. Bank National Association is subject to substantially similar rules adopted by the OCC. These rules implement the Basel Committee s framework for strengthening the regulation, supervision and risk management of banks ( Basel III ), as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the Federal Reserve and OCC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Under the Tailoring Rules, the Company and U.S. Bank National Association are each subject to Category III standards because they are not subject to Category I or Category II standards and have at least $250 billion in total consolidated assets. Accordingly, the Company and U.S. Bank National Association are now standardized approach banking organizations and are no longer required to calculate risk-based capital ratios under the advanced approaches. As standardized approach banking organizations, the Company and U.S. Bank National Association are subject to the final rule adopted by the banking regulators in July 2019 relating to simplifications of the capital rules applicable to non-advanced approach organizations. These rules became effective on January 1, 2020, and provide for simplified capital requirements relating to the threshold deductions for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that a banking organization could not realize through net operating loss carry backs, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as the inclusion of minority interests in regulatory capital. 7 Table of Contents Under the United States Basel III-based capital rules, the Company is subject to a minimum common equity tier 1 ( CET1 ) capital ratio (CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets) of 4.5 percent, a minimum tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0 percent and a minimum total capital ratio of 8.0 percent. The Company is also subject to a 2.5 percent common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by the Federal Reserve, up to a 2.5 percent common equity tier 1 countercyclical capital buffer. These additional requirements must be satisfied entirely with capital that qualifies as CET1. The countercyclical capital buffer applies only to banking organizations subject to Category I, II or III standards under the Tailoring Rules, including the Company. Although the Federal Reserve has not to date raised the countercyclical capital buffer above zero percent, the countercyclical capital buffer could change in the future, which would also change the effective minimum capital ratios to which the Company is subject. Banking organizations that fail to meet the effective minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is taken into account will be subject to constraints on capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases and certain discretionary executive compensation, with the severity of the constraints depending on the extent of the shortfall and eligible retained income (that is, four quarter trailing net income, net of distributions and tax effects not reflected in net income), with progressively more stringent constraints on capital actions as the Company approaches the minimum ratios. In April 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would, among other things, replace the capital conservation buffer requirement with a stress capital buffer requirement for large bank holding companies subject to the Federal Reserve s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ). Please refer to the Proposed Stress Buffer Requirements section below for further details. Although the proposal, if adopted, would change the way in which the minimum ratios are calculated, firms would continue to be subject to progressively more stringent constraints on capital actions as they approach the minimum ratios. United States banking organizations are also subject to a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0 percent. Banking organizations subject to Category I, II or III standards under the Tailoring Rules, including the Company, 