Item 1. Business Forward-Looking Statements THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION APPEARS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995: This report contains forward-looking statements about U.S. Bancorp ( U.S. Bancorp or the Company ). Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements and are based on the information available to, and assumptions and estimates made by, management as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements cover, among other things, anticipated future revenue and expenses and the future plans and prospects of U.S. Bancorp. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including the following risks and uncertainties and the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed under Risk Factors in the 2021 Annual Report, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting U.S. Bancorp, its customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers, and the ultimate extent of the impacts on its business, financial position, results of operations, liquidity, and prospects is uncertain. Continued deterioration in general business and economic conditions or turbulence in domestic or global financial markets could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s revenues and the values of its assets and liabilities, reduce the availability of funding to certain financial institutions, lead to a tightening of credit, and increase stock price volatility. In addition, changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies or practices could affect U.S. Bancorp in substantial and unpredictable ways. U.S. Bancorp s results could also be adversely affected by changes in interest rates; increases in unemployment rates; deterioration in the credit quality of its loan portfolios or in the value of the collateral securing those loans; deterioration in the value of its investment securities; legal and regulatory developments; litigation; increased competition from both banks and non-banks; civil unrest; the effects of climate change; changes in customer behavior and preferences; breaches in data security, including as a result of work-from-home arrangements; failures to safeguard personal information; effects of mergers and acquisitions and related integration; effects of critical accounting policies and judgments; and management s ability to effectively manage credit risk, market risk, operational risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and reputation risk. In addition, U.S. Bancorp s proposed acquisition of MUFG Union Bank presents risks and uncertainties, including, among others; the risk that the cost savings, any revenue synergies and other anticipated benefits of the proposed acquisition may not be realized or may take longer than anticipated to be realized; the risk that U.S. Bancorp s business could be disrupted as a result of the announcement and pendency of the proposed acquisition and diversion of management s attention from ongoing business operations and opportunities; the possibility that the proposed acquisition, including the integration of MUFG Union Bank, may be more costly or difficult to complete than anticipated; delays in closing the proposed acquisition; and the failure of required government approvals to be obtained or any other closing conditions in the definitive purchase agreement to be satisfied. For discussion of these and other risks that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to the sections entitled Corporate Risk Profile on pages 35 to 56 and Risk Factors on pages 137 to 150 of the 2021 Annual Report. In addition, factors other than these risks also could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s results, and the reader should not consider these risks to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and U.S. Bancorp undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events. General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, serving millions of local, national and global customers. U.S. Bancorp is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the BHC Act ), and has elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the BHC Act. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash management, capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing. 2 U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association, is engaged in the general banking business, principally in domestic markets. U.S. Bank National Association, with $465 billion in deposits at December 31, 2021, provides a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to large national customers operating in specific industries targeted by the Company, such as healthcare, utilities, oil and gas, and state and municipal government. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, lease financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other products. Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate and governmental entity customers. U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations. Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer investment and insurance products to the Company s customers principally within its domestic markets, and fund administration services to a broad range of mutual and other funds. Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 2,230 banking offices as of December 31, 2021, principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the United States, through on-line services, over mobile devices and through other distribution channels. The Company operates a network of 4,059 ATMs as of December 31, 2021, and provides 24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices throughout the Company s domestic markets. Lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. The Company s wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides domestic merchant processing services directly to merchants. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Elavon provide similar merchant services in Canada and segments of Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust and fund administration services in Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to the Company. The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic and operational disruptions that have affected the Company s business. Customer behavior has evolved greatly as more customers have migrated to on-line and digital-based products and services more quickly than originally anticipated. To meet these evolving customer preferences, the Company has continued and accelerated the development of digital-based products and services, as well as reduced the number of higher-cost physical branches. Pending Acquisition In September 2021, the Company announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire MUFG Union Bank s core regional banking franchise from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group ( MUFG ) for an expected purchase price of approximately $8.0 billion, including $5.5 billion in cash and approximately 44 million shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock. The transaction excludes the purchase of MUFG Union Bank s Global Corporate Investment Bank, certain middle and back office functions, and other assets. MUFG Union Bank currently has approximately 300 branches in California, Washington and Oregon and is expected to add approximately $105 billion in total assets, $58 billion of loans and $90 billion of deposits to the Company s consolidated balance sheet. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2022, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. Business Segments The Company s major lines of business are Corporate and Commercial Banking, Consumer and Business Banking, Wealth Management and Investment Services, Payment Services, and Treasury and Corporate Support. 3 These operating segments are components of the Company about which financial information is prepared and is evaluated regularly by management in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Corporate and Commercial Banking Corporate and Commercial Banking offers lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository services, treasury management, capital markets services, international trade services and other financial services to middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate, financial institution, non-profit and public sector clients. Corporate and Commercial Banking contributed $1.6 billion, or 20.4 percent, of the Company s net income in 2021, a decrease of $33 million (2.0 percent) compared with 2020. Consumer and Business Banking Consumer and Business Banking delivers products and services through banking offices, telephone servicing and sales, online services, direct mail, ATM processing and mobile devices. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan banking and indirect lending, as well as mortgage banking. Consumer and Business Banking contributed $2.3 billion, or 28.5 percent, of the Company s net income in 2021, a decrease of $103 million (4.3 percent) compared with 2020. Wealth Management and Investment Services Wealth Management and Investment Services provides private banking, financial advisory services, investment management, retail brokerage services, insurance, trust, custody and fund servicing through four businesses: Wealth Management, Global Corporate Trust Custody, U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, and Fund Services. Wealth Management and Investment Services contributed $837 million, or 10.5 percent, of the Company s net income in 2021, a decrease of $104 million (11.1 percent) compared with 2020. Payment Services Payment Services includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards, debit cards, corporate, government and purchasing card services, consumer lines of credit and merchant processing. Payment Services contributed $1.7 billion, or 21.6 percent, of the Company s net income in 2021, an increase of $420 million (32.3 percent) compared with 2020. Treasury and Corporate Support Treasury and Corporate Support includes the Company s investment portfolios, funding, capital management, interest rate risk management, income taxes not allocated to the business lines, including most investments in tax-advantaged projects, and the residual aggregate of those expenses associated with corporate activities that are managed on a consolidated basis. Treasury and Corporate Support recorded net income of $1.5 billion, or 19.0 percent, of the Company s net income in 2021, an increase of $2.8 billion compared with 2020. Additional information regarding the Company s business segments can be found on pages 56 to 60 of the Company s 2021 Annual Report under the heading Line of Business Financial Review, which is incorporated herein by reference. Human Capital The Company s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract, develop and retain skilled employees. The Company recognizes that supporting, engaging and continuously upskilling its workforce is key to meeting evolving corporate and customer needs. To further those efforts, the Company is dedicated to fostering a diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment; supporting employees professional development; and providing pay that is competitive and fair, as well as other benefits and programs that promote wellness, engagement and productivity. As of December 31, 2021, the Company employed a total of 68,796 full-time equivalent employees. Diversity and Inclusion The Company continues to expand its talent pipeline to increase the representation of women at leadership levels and people of color at all levels. In 2021, the Company expanded its hiring policies to require the inclusion of at least one woman or one person of color on interview slates for all roles at the Company. In addition, the Company has deployed leadership development cohorts and an executive sponsorship program for female and people of color leaders, while also providing inclusive leadership learning journeys designed to coach and develop its leaders in driving employee and team performance through inclusive behaviors and best practices. 4 The Company also sponsors ten Business Resource Groups, including Asian, Black, Hispanic and Native American heritage, women, LGBTQ, military and disabled employee groups, with chapters across the Company where employees can come together to discuss topics of interest to them, develop professional skills and build overall employee engagement, helping to create and sustain an inclusive workforce that drives business growth and propels accountability for diversity and inclusion at all levels within the Company. These programs, practices and policies are part of the Company s strategy to have an ethnically and gender diverse employee base. As of December 31, 2021, of the Company s employees in the United States, 57 percent were women and 33 percent were people of color. The Company also has focused on increasing the diversity of its senior management team. As of December 31, 2021, 32 percent of employees at the executive and senior management level in the United States were women and 16 percent were people of color. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, of the Company s 13 directors, 6 were women and 4 were people of color. The Company s goal is to ensure diversity and inclusion accountability is consistent across the organization. To ensure accountability, the Company s chief executive officer ( CEO ) chairs the Company s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee, with the Company s Chief Diversity Officer reporting directly to the CEO and serving as a member of the Managing Committee. Equitable and Competitive Compensation, Health Wellness Programs Maintaining competitive compensation and benefits practices is a continued focus for the Company, with periodic peer and benchmarking reviews used to assist with competitive alignment and employee retention. The Company recognizes that comprehensive health and wellness benefits, competitive retirement, leave, recognition, flexible work programs, and education assistance programs are important in the current talent market. The Company is also committed to fair pay and continues to prioritize pay equity efforts. To help ensure diverse employees are fairly compensated, the Company has processes in place to address any gender and racial pay inequities identified within its workforce. This work starts with fair hiring practices, as discussed above. The Company also has guidelines in place for both internal and external job postings to assist the Company s leaders in making fair compensation decisions based on the demands and value of each role, candidate experience, and pay related to comparable internal positions. The Company also conducts periodic reviews of its employees pay levels across gender and racial categories with the assistance of an independent third-party consultant. When gender or race-based disparities in pay are identified, the Company adjusts compensation levels to eliminate those disparities. In the 2021 review, on average, employees of the Company in the United States who are women were paid greater than 99 percent of what their male counterparts were paid, and employees of the Company in the United States who are people of color were paid greater than 99 percent of what their white counterparts were paid, taking into account several factors including comparable jobs and experience. The Company also added two new Company holidays: Juneteenth and My Holiday. The Company s recognition of Juneteenth as a holiday reflects the historical importance of Juneteenth and alignment with a diverse and inclusive culture. My Holiday is a personal day that every employee can take during the course of the year to celebrate a day of significance to each employee, such as religious holidays, day of cultural significance, or other personally significant day. The Company also increased its parental leave program to 10 weeks to further support its employees and their families. Employee Engagement and Retention As part of its efforts to develop and retain skilled employees, the Company remains focused on monitoring employee engagement. The Company s employee listening program allows the Company to collect quantitative and qualitative data from employees, which then supports and informs the Company on human capital strategies and decisions that impact its employee base. In addition to the Company s talent development offerings for employees, it launched two new efforts in 2021, the Digital Academy and the People Leader Center, which focus on digital skill development and core leadership skill development, respectively, both of which the Company believes are critical in the current and future working environment. Enhancing succession and talent development processes remains a top priority for the Company. 5 The Company has continued to evolve its flexible work programs to adapt to the current environment with remote, hybrid and in-person work arrangements, providing additional optionality and flexibility for most employees. Most of the Company s non-office critical staff remained remote during 2021, and the Company continues to assess the extent to which employees work remotely or in the office as conditions evolve. High safety standards for the Company s office critical and on-site staff remain important to the Company, with the Company facilitating enhanced cleaning of work spaces and providing personal protective equipment to employees, such as face coverings, gloves and face shields as needed. The Company has also continued to provide additional time-off to support employees and their families for when they are impacted by COVID-19, need paid time-off for vaccinations or require additional childcare support. The Company will continue to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and take appropriate measures to protect the safety and health of its employees. Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card companies and a variety of other financial services, advisory and technology companies. The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, including innovative ways that customers can make payments or manage their accounts, such as through the use of mobile payments, digital wallets or digital currencies. In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies, including by financial technology companies, or fintechs, which may offer bank-like products or services that compete directly with the Company s products and services. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience, including the ability to address customer needs by using technology to provide products and services that customers want to adopt. The Company s ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on its ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. For additional information relating to how the Company attracts and retains employees, see Human Capital above. Information Security Information security, including cybersecurity, is a high priority for the Company. Recent highly publicized events have highlighted the importance of cybersecurity, including cyberattacks against financial institutions, governmental agencies and other organizations that resulted in the compromise of personal and/or confidential information, the theft or destruction of corporate information, and demands for ransom payments to release corporate information encrypted by so-called ransomware. A successful cyberattack, including an attack at a third-party vendor the Company utilizes, could harm the Company s reputation and/or impair its ability to provide services to its customers. The Company has expended, and may in the future expend, significant resources to implement technologies and various response and recovery plans and procedures as part of its information security program. For additional information on cybersecurity risks the Company faces, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors on pages 137 to 150 of the 2021 Annual Report. Government Policies The operations of the Company s various businesses are affected by federal and state laws and legislative changes and by policies of various regulatory authorities of the numerous states in which they operate, the United States and foreign governments. These laws, rules and policies include, for example, statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve ), United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies. Supervision and Regulation U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies ( BHCs ) and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the 6 protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund (the DIF ) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC ), consumers, the stability of the financial system in the United States, and the health of the national economy, and not for investors in the Company. This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described below. General As a BHC, the Company is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. U.S. Bank National Association and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, examination and supervision primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC ) and also by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB ), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC ) in certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agencies generally include comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of the Company s and U.S. Bank National Association s business and condition, regular on-site examinations, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments and certain types of activities. If the applicable regulatory agencies deem the Company to be operating in a manner that is inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices, the agencies can require the entry into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which the Company would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. Supervision and examinations are confidential, and the outcomes of these actions generally are not made public. Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by the United States Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. As a BHC with over $250 billion in total consolidated assets, the Company is subject to the Dodd-Frank Act s enhanced prudential standards, as modified by the federal banking regulators 2019 rules (the Tailoring Rules ). The rules applicable to the Company and U.S. Bank National Association are described in more detail below. Supervisory Ratings Federal banking regulators regularly examine the Company and U.S. Bank National Association. Following those exams, the Company (under the Federal Reserve s Large Financial Institution Rating System) and U.S. Bank National Association (under the CAMELS rating system) are assigned supervisory ratings. Disclosure of these ratings to third parties is not allowed without permission of the issuing regulator. A downgrade in these ratings could limit the Company s ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time, require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities or investments, affect U.S. Bank National Association s deposit insurance assessment rate, and impose additional recordkeeping and corporate governance requirements, as well as generally increase regulatory scrutiny of the Company. BHC Activities The Company is a BHC under the BHC Act and has elected to be a financial holding company ( FHC ). BHCs that qualify and elect to be treated as FHCs may engage in, and affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a BHC. If an FHC or a depository institution controlled by an FHC ceases to be well-capitalized or well-managed, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC and may place 7 limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. See Permissible Business Activities below. If the failure to meet these standards persists, the FHC may be required to divest its depository institution subsidiaries or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. In addition, if a depository institution controlled by an FHC does not receive a Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) rating of at least satisfactory at its most recent examination, the Federal Reserve will prohibit the FHC from conducting new business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and from making certain acquisitions. The Federal Reserve also requires BHCs to meet certain applicable capital and management standards. Failure by the Company to meet these standards could limit the Company from engaging in any new activity or acquiring other companies without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Permissible Business Activities As an FHC, the Company may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. Financial in nature activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the United States Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. Complementary activities are activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a safety and soundness risk. The Company generally is not required to obtain Federal Reserve approval to acquire a company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as long as the Company meets the capital, managerial and CRA requirements to qualify as an FHC. However, the Company is required to receive approval for an acquisition in which the total consolidated assets to be acquired exceed $10 billion. FHCs are also required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than five percent of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of an unaffiliated BHC, bank or savings association. In addition, banks must receive approval before they may ac