Item 1 Business 7 Item 1A Risk Factors 23 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 52 Item 2 Properties 52 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 52 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 52 Part II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 Item 6 [Reserved] 55 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 56 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 73 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 73 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 74 Item 9B Other Information 74 Item 9C - Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 74 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 75 Item 11 Executive Compensation 75 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 75 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 75 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 75 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 76 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 79 Signatures 80 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule F - 1 Table of Contents PART I In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words VICI, the Company, we, our, and us refer to VICI Properties Inc. and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, unless otherwise stated or the context requires otherwise. We refer to (i) our Consolidated Financial Statements as our Financial Statements, (ii) our Consolidated Balance Sheets as our Balance Sheet, (iii) our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income as our Statement of Operations, and (iv) our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as our Statement of Cash Flows. References to numbered Notes refer to the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 2025 Notes refers to $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% senior unsecured notes due 2025 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in February 2020. 2026 Notes refers to $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.250% senior unsecured notes due 2026 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in November 2019. 2027 Notes refers to $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in February 2020. 2029 Notes refers to $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2029 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in November 2019. 2030 Notes refers to $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due 2030 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in February 2020. Apollo refers to Apollo Global Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and, as the context requires, certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates. BREIT JV refers to the joint venture between MGP and Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust, Inc. in which the Company will retain MGP s existing 50.1% ownership stake following the closing of the MGP Transactions. Caesars refers to Caesars Entertainment, Inc., a Delaware corporation, formerly Eldorado, following the consummation of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger on July 20, 2020 and Eldorado s conversion to a Delaware corporation. Caesars Forum Convention Center refers to the Caesars Forum Convention Center in Las Vegas, Nevada, and the approximately 28 acres of land upon which the Caesars Forum Convention Center is built and/or otherwise used in connection with or necessary for the operation of the Caesars Forum Convention Center. Caesars Lease Agreements refer collectively to (i) prior to the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, the CPLV Lease Agreement, the Non-CPLV Lease Agreement, the Joliet Lease Agreement and the HLV Lease Agreement, and (ii) from and after the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement, the Regional Master Lease Agreement and the Joliet Lease Agreement, in each case, unless the context otherwise requires. Caesars Southern Indiana refers to the real estate assets associated with the Caesars Southern Indiana Casino and Hotel, located in Elizabeth, Indiana, the operations of which were purchased by EBCI from Caesars on September 3, 2021, and which retained the Caesars brand name in accordance with the terms of a licensing agreement negotiated between EBCI and Caesars. Century Casinos refers to Century Casinos, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. Century Portfolio refers to the real estate assets associated with the (i) Mountaineer Casino, Racetrack Resort located in New Cumberland, West Virginia, (ii) Century Casino Caruthersville located in Caruthersville, Missouri and (iii) Century Casino Cape Girardeau located in Cape Girardeau, Missouri, which we purchased on December 6, 2019. Century Portfolio Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the Century Portfolio, as amended from time to time. CEOC refers to Caesars Entertainment Operating Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries, prior to October 6, 2017 (the Formation Date ), and following the Formation Date, CEOC, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. CEOC was a subsidiary of Pre-Merger Caesars, and following the consummation of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger, is a subsidiary of Caesars. Co-Issuer refers to VICI Note Co. Inc., a Delaware corporation, and co-issuer of the Senior Unsecured Notes. 1 Table of Contents CPLV CMBS Debt refers to $1.55 billion of asset-level real estate mortgage financing of Caesars Palace Las Vegas, incurred by a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership on October 6, 2017 and repaid in full on November 26, 2019. CPLV Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Caesars Palace Las Vegas, as amended from time to time, which was combined with the HLV Lease Agreement into the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. Credit Agreement refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of February 8, 2022, by and among the Operating Partnership, the lenders from time to time party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, as amended from time to time. Credit Facilities refers collectively to the Delayed Draw Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility. Delayed Draw Term Loan refers to the three-year unsecured delayed draw term loan facility of the Operating Partnership provided under the Credit Agreement. EBCI refers to the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, a federally recognized Tribe located in western North Carolina, and, as the context requires, its subsidiary and affiliate entities. EBCI Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Caesars Southern Indiana, as amended from time to time. Eldorado refers to Eldorado Resorts, Inc., a Nevada corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. Following the consummation of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger on July 20, 2020, Eldorado converted to a Delaware corporation and changed its name to Caesars Entertainment, Inc. Eldorado Master Transaction Agreement or Eldorado MTA refers to the Master Transaction Agreement dated June 24, 2019 with Eldorado relating to the Eldorado Transaction. The Eldorado MTA was previously referred to as the Master Transaction Agreement or MTA . Eldorado Transaction refers to a series of transactions between us and Eldorado in connection with the Eldorado/Caesars Merger, including the acquisition of the Harrah s Original Call Properties, modifications to the Caesars Lease Agreements, and rights of first refusal. Eldorado/Caesars Merger refers to the merger consummated on July 20, 2020 under an Agreement and Plan of Merger pursuant to which a subsidiary of Eldorado merged with and into Pre-Merger Caesars, with Pre-Merger Caesars surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Caesars (which changed its name from Eldorado in connection with the closing of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger). February 2020 Senior Unsecured Notes refers collectively to the 2025 Notes, the 2027 Notes and the 2030 Notes. Greektown refers to the real estate assets associated with the Greektown Casino-Hotel, located in Detroit, Michigan, which we purchased on May 23, 2019. Greektown Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Greektown, as amended from time to time. Hard Rock means Seminole Hard Rock International, LLC, and, as the context requires, its subsidiary and affiliate entities. Hard Rock Cincinnati refers to the casino-entitled land and real estate and related assets associated with the Hard Rock Cincinnati Casino, located in Cincinnati, Ohio, which we purchased on September 20, 2019. Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Hard Rock Cincinnati, as amended from time to time. Harrah s Original Call Properties refers to the land and real estate assets associated with Harrah s New Orleans, Harrah s Laughlin and Harrah s Atlantic City, which we purchased on July 20, 2020 upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. The Harrah s Original Call Properties were previously referred to as the MTA Properties . HLV Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the Harrah s Las Vegas facilities, as amended from time to time, which was combined with the CPLV Lease Agreement into the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. JACK Entertainment refers to JACK Ohio LLC, and, as the context requires, its subsidiary and affiliate entities. 2 Table of Contents JACK Cleveland/Thistledown refers to the casino-entitled land and real estate and related assets associated with the JACK Cleveland Casino located in Cleveland, Ohio, and the video lottery gaming and pari-mutuel wagering authorized land and real estate and related assets of JACK Thistledown Racino located in North Randall, Ohio, which we purchased on January 24, 2020. JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for JACK Cleveland/Thistledown, as amended from time to time. Joliet Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the facility in Joliet, Illinois, as amended from time to time. Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Caesars Palace Las Vegas and the Harrah s Las Vegas facilities, as amended from time to time, from and after the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. Lease Agreements refer collectively to the Caesars Lease Agreements, the Penn National Lease Agreements, the Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement, the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement, the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement, the EBCI Lease Agreement and the Venetian Lease Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires. Margaritaville refers to the real estate of Margaritaville Resort Casino, located in Bossier City, Louisiana, which we purchased on January 2, 2019. Margaritaville Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Margaritaville, as amended from time to time. Mergers refers to a series of transactions contemplated under the MGP Master Transaction Agreement, consisting of (i) the contribution of our interest in the Operating Partnership to New VICI Operating Company, which will serve as our new operating company, followed by (ii) the merger of MGP with and into REIT Merger Sub, with REIT Merger Sub surviving the merger, followed by (iii) the distribution by REIT Merger Sub of the interests of the general partner of MGP OP to the Operating Partnership and, (iv) the merger of REIT Merger Sub with and into MGP OP, with MGP OP surviving such merger. MGM refers to MGM Resorts International, a Delaware corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. MGM Master Lease Agreement refers to the form of amended and restated triple-net master lease to be entered into by us and MGM with respect to certain MGM properties that will be owned by us upon consummation of the MGP Transactions. MGM Tax Protection Agreement refers to the form of tax protection agreement that we have agreed to enter into with MGM upon consummation of the MGP Transactions. MGP refers to MGM Growth Properties LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. MGP Master Transaction Agreement refers to that certain Master Transaction Agreement between the Company, MGP, MGP OP, the Operating Partnership, Venus Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of the Operating Partnership ( REIT Merger Sub ), VICI Properties OP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ( New VICI Operating Company ), and MGM entered into on August 4, 2021. MGP OP refers to MGM Growth Properties Operating Partnership LP, a Delaware limited partnership, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. MGP OP Notes refers collectively to the notes issued by MGP OP and MGP Finance Co-Issuer, Inc. ( MGP Co-Issuer and, together with MGP OP, the MGP Issuers ), consisting of (i) the 5.625% Senior Notes due 2024 issued pursuant to the indenture, dated as of April 20, 2016, (ii) the 4.625% Senior Notes due 2025 issued pursuant to the indenture, dated as of June 5, 2020, (iii) the 4.500% Senior Notes due 2026 issued pursuant to the indenture, dated as of August 12, 2016, (iv) the 5.750% Senior Notes due 2027 issued pursuant to the indenture, dated as of January 25, 2019, (v) the 4.500% Senior Notes due 2028 issued pursuant to the indenture, dated as of September 21, 2017, and (vi) the 3.875% Senior Notes due 2029 issued pursuant to the indenture, dated as of November 19, 2020, in each case, as amended or supplemented as of the date hereof, among the MGP Issuers, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto (the MGP Subsidiary Guarantors ) and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the MGP Trustee ). MGP Transactions refers collectively to a series of transactions pursuant to the MGP Master Transaction Agreement between us, MGP and MGM and the other parties thereto in connection with our acquisition of MGP, as contemplated by the MGP Master Transaction Agreement, including the MGM Tax Protection Agreement and the MGM Master Lease Agreement. 3 Table of Contents Non-CPLV Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for regional properties (other than the facility in Joliet, Illinois) leased to Pre-Merger Caesars prior to the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, as amended from time to time, which was replaced by the Regional Master Lease Agreement upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. November 2019 Senior Unsecured Notes refers collectively to the 2026 Notes and the 2029 Notes. Operating Partnership refers to VICI Properties L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and a wholly owned subsidiary of VICI. Penn National refers to Penn National Gaming, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. Penn National Lease Agreements refer collectively to the Margaritaville Lease Agreement and the Greektown Lease Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires. Pre-Merger Caesars refers to Caesars Entertainment Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. Following the consummation of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger on July 20, 2020, Pre-Merger Caesars became a wholly owned subsidiary of Caesars. Regional Master Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the regional properties (other than the facility in Joliet, Illinois) leased to Caesars, as amended from time to time, from and after the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. Revolving Credit Facility refers to the four-year unsecured revolving credit facility of the Operating Partnership provided under the Credit Agreement. Second Lien Notes refers to $766.9 million aggregate principal amount of 8.0% second priority senior secured notes due 2023 issued by a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership in October 2017, the remaining $498.5 million aggregate principal amount outstanding as of December 31, 2019 of which was redeemed in full on February 20, 2020. Secured Revolving Credit Facility refers to the five-year first lien revolving credit facility entered into by VICI PropCo in December 2017, as amended, which was terminated on February 8, 2022. Seminole Hard Rock means Seminole Hard Rock Entertainment, Inc. Term Loan B Facility refers to the seven-year senior secured first lien term loan B facility entered into by VICI PropCo in December 2017, as amended from time to time, which was repaid in full on September 15, 2021. Venetian Acquisition refers to our acquisition of the Venetian Resort, with Apollo, which closed on February 23, 2022. Venetian Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the Venetian Resort. Venetian Resort refers to the land and real estate assets associated with The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and Venetian Expo, located in Las Vegas, Nevada, which we purchased on February 23, 2022. Venetian Tenant refers to an affiliate of certain funds managed by affiliates of Apollo. VICI Golf refers to VICI Golf LLC, a Delaware limited liability company that is the owner and operator of our golf segment business. VICI Issuers refers to VICI Properties L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., a Delaware corporation. VICI PropCo refers to VICI Properties 1 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of VICI. 4 Table of Contents Summary of Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. These risks are discussed more fully in