Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 24 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 2 Properties 48 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 48 Part II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 52 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 54 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 72 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 72 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 72 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 73 Item 9B Other Information 73 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 74 Item 11 Executive Compensation 74 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 74 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 74 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 74 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 75 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 80 Signatures 81 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules F - 1 Table of Contents PART I In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words VICI, the Company, we, our, and us refer to VICI Properties Inc. and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, unless otherwise stated or the context requires otherwise. We refer to (i) our Consolidated Financial Statements as our Financial Statements, (ii) our Consolidated Balance Sheets as our Balance Sheet, (iii) our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income as our Statement of Operations, and (iv) our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as our Statement of Cash Flows. References to numbered Notes refer to the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 2025 Notes refers to $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% senior unsecured notes due 2025 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in February 2020. 2026 Notes refers to $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.250% senior unsecured notes due 2026 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in November 2019. 2027 Notes refers to $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in February 2020. 2029 Notes refers to $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2029 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in November 2019. 2030 Notes refers to $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due 2030 issued by the Operating Partnership and VICI Note Co. Inc., as Co-Issuer, in February 2020. Caesars refers to Caesars Entertainment Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. Caesars Entertainment Outdoor refers to the historical operations of the golf courses that were transferred from CEOC to VICI Golf on the Formation Date. Caesars Lease Agreements refer collectively to the CPLV Lease Agreement, the Non-CPLV Lease Agreement, the Joliet Lease Agreement and the HLV Lease Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires. Century Casinos refers to Century Casinos, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. Century Portfolio refers to the real estate assets associated with the (i) Mountaineer Casino, Racetrack Resort located in New Cumberland, West Virginia, (ii) Century Casino Caruthersville located in Caruthersville, Missouri and (iii) Century Casino Cape Girardeau located in Cape Girardeau, Missouri, which we purchased on December 6, 2019. Century Portfolio Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the Century Portfolio, as amended from time to time. CEOC refers to Caesars Entertainment Operating Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries, prior to the Formation Date, and following the Formation Date, CEOC, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. CEOC is a subsidiary of Caesars. CPLV CMBS Debt refers to $1.55 billion of asset-level real estate mortgage financing of Caesars Palace Las Vegas, incurred by a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership on October 6, 2017 and repaid in full on November 26, 2019. CPLV Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Caesars Palace Las Vegas, as amended from time to time, which will be combined with the HLV Lease Agreement into a single Las Vegas master lease upon the closing of the pending Eldorado/Caesars Merger. CRC refers to Caesars Resort Collection, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company which is a subsidiary of Caesars. Eastside Property refers to 18.4 acres of property located in Las Vegas, Nevada, east of Harrah s Las Vegas that we sold to Caesars in December 2017. Eldorado Transaction refers to a series of transactions between us and Eldorado in connection with the Eldorado/Caesars Merger, including the acquisition of the Harrah s New Orleans, Harrah s Atlantic City and Harrah s Laughlin properties, modifications to the Caesars Lease Agreements, and rights of first refusal. Eldorado refers to Eldorado Resorts, Inc., a Nevada corporation, and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. 1 Table of Contents Eldorado/Caesars Merger refers to the merger contemplated under an Agreement and Plan of Merger pursuant to which a subsidiary of Eldorado will merge with and into Caesars, with Caesars surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Eldorado. February 2020 Senior Unsecured Notes refers collectively to the 2025 Notes, 2027 Notes and the 2030 Notes. Formation Date refers to October 6, 2017. Formation Lease Agreements refers to the CPLV Lease Agreement, the Joliet Lease Agreement and the Non-CPLV Lease Agreement, collectively. Greektown refers to the real estate assets associated with the Greektown Casino-Hotel, located in Detroit, Michigan, which we purchased on May 23, 2019. Greektown Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Greektown, as amended from time to time. Hard Rock means Hard Rock International, and, as the context requires, its subsidiary and affiliate entities. Hard Rock Cincinnati refers to the casino-entitled land and real estate and related assets associated with the Hard Rock Cincinnati Casino, located in Cincinnati, Ohio, which we purchased on September 20, 2019 (and previously referred to in our prior filings as JACK Cincinnati). Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Hard Rock Cincinnati, as amended from time to time. HLV Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the Harrah s Las Vegas facilities, as amended from time to time, which will be combined with the CPLV Lease Agreement into a single Las Vegas master lease upon the closing of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger. JACK Entertainment refers to JACK Ohio LLC, and, as the context requires, its subsidiary and affiliate entities. JACK Cleveland/Thistledown refers to the casino-entitled land and real estate and related assets associated with the JACK Cleveland Casino located in Cleveland, Ohio, and the video lottery gaming and pari-mutuel wagering authorized land and real estate and related assets of JACK Thistledown Racino located in North Randall, Ohio, which we purchased on January 24, 2020. JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for JACK Cleveland/Thistledown, as amended from time to time. Joliet Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the facilities in Joliet, Illinois, as amended from time to time. Lease Agreements refer collectively to the Caesars Lease Agreements, the Penn National Lease Agreements, the Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement, the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement and, from and after January 24, 2020, the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires. Margaritaville refers to the real estate of Margaritaville Resort Casino, located in Bossier City, Louisiana, which we purchased on January 2, 2019. Margaritaville Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for Margaritaville, as amended from time to time. Master Transaction Agreement refers to the master transaction agreement with Eldorado relating to the Eldorado Transaction. Non-CPLV Lease Agreement refers to the lease agreement for the regional properties leased to Caesars other than the facilities in Joliet, Illinois, as amended from time to time. November 2019 Senior Unsecured Notes refer collectively to the 2026 Notes and the 2029 Notes. Operating Partnership refers to VICI Properties L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and a wholly owned subsidiary of VICI. Penn National refers to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and, as the context requires, its subsidiaries. Penn National Lease Agreements refer collectively to the Margaritaville Lease Agreement and the Greektown Lease Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires. 2 Table of Contents Revolving Credit Facility refers to the five-year first lien revolving credit facility entered into by VICI PropCo, as amended from time to time. Second Lien Notes refers to $766.9 million aggregate principal amount of 8.0% second priority senior secured notes due 2023 issued by a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership in October 2017, of which approximately $498.5 million aggregate principal amount remained outstanding as of December 31, 2019, and which were redeemed in full on February 20, 2020. Seminole Hard Rock means Seminole Hard Rock Entertainment, Inc. Term Loan B Facility refers to the seven-year senior secured first lien term loan B facility entered into by VICI PropCo in December 2017. VICI Golf refers to VICI Golf LLC, a Delaware limited liability company that is the owner and operator of the Caesars Entertainment Outdoor business. VICI PropCo or PropCo refers to VICI Properties 1 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of VICI. 3 Table of Contents ITEM 1. Business We are an owner and acquirer of experiential real estate assets across leading gaming, hospitality, entertainment and leisure destinations. Our national, geographically diverse portfolio currently consists of 28 market leading properties, including Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Harrah s Las Vegas, two of the most iconic entertainment facilities on the Las Vegas Strip. Our entertainment facilities are leased to leading brands that seek to drive consumer loyalty and value with guests through superior services, experiences, products and continuous innovation. Across approximately 40 million square feet, our well-maintained properties are currently located across urban, destination and drive-to markets in twelve states, contain approximately 15,600 hotel rooms and feature over 180 restaurants, bars and nightclubs. Our portfolio also includes approximately 34 acres of undeveloped or underdeveloped land on and adjacent to the Las Vegas Strip that is leased to Caesars, which we may look to monetize as appropriate. We also own and operate four championship golf courses located near certain of our properties, two of which are in close proximity to the Las Vegas Strip. We believe we have mutually beneficial relationships with Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, Century Casinos and JACK Entertainment, all of which are leading owners and operators of gaming, entertainment and leisure properties. Our long-term triple-net Lease Agreements with subsidiaries of our operators provide us with a highly predictable revenue stream with embedded growth potential. We believe our geographic diversification limits the effect of changes in any one market on our overall performance. We are focused on driving long-term total returns through managing experiential asset growth and allocating capital diligently, maintaining a highly productive tenant base, and optimizing our capital structure to support external growth. As a growth focused public real estate company, we expect our relationship with our partners will position us for the acquisition of additional properties across leisure and hospitality. Our portfolio is competitively positioned and well-maintained. Pursuant to the terms of the Lease Agreements, which require our tenants to invest in our properties, and in line with our tenants commitment to build guest loyalty, we anticipate our tenants will continue to make strategic value-enhancing investments in our properties over time, helping to maintain their competitive position. In addition, given our scale and deep industry knowledge, we believe we are well-positioned to execute highly complementary single-asset and portfolio acquisitions to augment growth. We conduct our operations as a real estate investment trust ( REIT ) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on our taxable income to the extent that we annually distribute all of our net taxable income to stockholders and maintain our qualification as a REIT. We conduct our real property business through our Operating Partnership and our golf course business through a taxable REIT subsidiary (a TRS ), VICI Golf. Our Competitive Strengths We believe the following strengths effectively position us to execute our business and growth strategies: Leading portfolio of high-quality experiential gaming, hospitality, entertainment and leisure assets. Our portfolio features Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Harrah s Las Vegas and market-leading urban, destination and regional properties with significant scale. Our properties are well-maintained and leased to leading brands such as Caesars, Harrah s, Horseshoe, Bally s, Margaritaville, Greektown, JACK, Hard Rock, Century and Mountaineer. These brands seek to drive loyalty and value with guests through superior service and products and continuous innovation. Our portfolio benefits from its strong mix of demand generators, including casinos, guest rooms, restaurants, entertainment facilities, bars and nightclubs and convention space. We believe our properties are well-insulated from incremental competition as a result of high replacement costs, as well as regulatory restrictions and long-lead times for new development. The high quality of our properties appeals to a broad base of customers, stimulating traffic and visitation. Our portfolio is anchored by our Las Vegas properties, Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Harrah s Las Vegas, which are located at the center of the Strip. W e believe Las Vegas is a market characterized by steady economic growth and high consumer and business demand with limited new supply. Our Las Vegas properties, which are two of the most iconic entertainment facilities in Las Vegas, feature gaming entertainment, large-scale hotels, extensive food and beverage options, state-of-the-art convention facilities, retail outlets and entertainment showrooms. Our portfolio also includes market-leading regional resorts and destinations that we believe are benefiting from significant invested capital over recent years. The regional properties we own include award-winning land-based and dockside casinos, hotels and entertainment facilities that are market leaders within their respective regions. The properties operate primarily under the Caesars, 4 Table of Contents Harrah s, Horseshoe, Bally s, Margaritaville, Greektown, JACK, Hard Rock, Century and Mountaineer trademark and brand names, which, in many instances, have market-leading brand recognition. Under the terms of the Lease Agreements, the tenants are required to continue to invest in the properties, which we believe enhances the value of our properties and maintains their competitive market position. Our properties feature diversified sources of revenue on both a business and geographic basis. Our portfolio includes 28 geographically diverse casino resorts that serve numerous Metropolitan Statistical Areas ( MSAs ) nationally. This diversity reduces our exposure to adverse events that may affect any single market. This also allows our tenants to derive multiple revenue streams from an economically diverse set of customers and services to such customers. These include gaming, food and beverage, entertainment, hospitality and other sources of revenue. We believe that this geographic diversity and the diversity of revenue sources that our tenants derive from our leased properties improves the stability of rental revenue. Our long-term Lease Agreements provide a highly predictable base level of rent with embedded growth potential. Our properties are 100% occupied pursuant to our long-term triple-net Lease Agreements with subsidiaries of Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, Century Casinos and JACK Entertainment, providing us with a predictable level of rental revenue to support future cash distributions to our stockholders. All of our casino resort properties are established assets with extensive operating histories. Based on historical performance of the properties, we expect that the properties will generate sufficient revenues for our tenants to pay to us all rent due under the Lease Agreements. We believe our relationship with Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, Century Casinos and JACK Entertainment, including our contractual agreements with them and their applicable subsidiaries, will continue to drive significant benefits and mutual alignment of strategic interests in the future. The payment obligations of our tenants are guaranteed by Caesars, Penn National, Seminole Hard Rock, Century Casinos and Rock Ohio Ventures LLC, as applicable. All of our existing properties are leased to subsidiaries of Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, Century Casinos and JACK Entertainment. Caesars guarantees the payment obligations of our tenants under the Formation Lease Agreements, CRC, a subsidiary of Caesars, guarantees the payment obligations of our tenant under the HLV Lease Agreement, Penn National guarantees the payment obligations of our tenant under the Penn National Lease Agreements, Seminole Hard Rock guarantees the payment obligations of our tenant under the Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement, Century Casinos guarantees the payment obligations of our tenant under the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement and Rock Ohio Ventures LLC guarantees the payment obligations of our tenants under the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement. In addition to the properties leased from us, Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock and Century Casinos operate numerous other casino resorts, collectively comprising a nationally recognized portfolio of brands. In addition, Caesars uses the Caesars Rewards program, which is core to its cross-market strategy and is designed to encourage Caesars customers to direct a larger share of their entertainment spending to Caesars. Subsequent to the closing of the Eldorado/Caesars merger, the Caesars Rewards program will remain as the customer loyalty program and will include the Eldorado owned brands. Our other tenants operate their own customer loyalty rewards programs including Penn National using the mychoice reward program and Hard Rock using the Hard Rock Rewards program. 5 Table of Contents Experienced management team and independent board of directors with robust corporate governance We have an experienced and independent management team that has been actively engaged in the leadership, acquisition and investment aspects of the hospitality, gaming, entertainment and real estate industries throughout their careers. Our Chief Executive Officer, Edward Pitoniak, and President and Chief Operating Officer, John Payne, are industry veterans with an average of over 30 years of experience in the REIT, gaming and experiential real estate industries, during which time they were able to drive controlled growth and diversification of significant real estate and gaming portfolios. Mr. Pitoniak s service as an independent board member of public companies provides him with a unique and meaningful management perspective and enables him to work with our independent board of directors as a trusted steward of our extensive portfolio. Our Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel have an average of over 20 years of experience in the REIT, real estate and hospitality industries and bring significant leadership and expertise to our team across capital markets, corporate finance, acquisitions, risk management and corporate governance. Our independent board of directors, which is made of highly skilled and seasoned real estate, gaming, hospitality, consumer products and corporate professionals, was established to ensure that there was no overlap between our tenants and the companies with which our directors are affiliated. In addition, our board of directors is not staggered, with each of our directors subject to re-election annually. Robust corporate governance in the best interests of our stockholders is of central importance to the management of our company, as we have a separate Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and all members of our audit committee qualify as an audit committee financial expert as defined by the SEC. Directors are elected in uncontested elections by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast, and stockholder approval is required prior to, or in certain circumstances within twelve months following, the adoption by our board of a stockholder rights plan. Our Properties The following map and tables summarize our current portfolio of properties, our pending acquisitions and our properties subject to the right of first refusal agreement and put/call agreement, subject to the closing of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger. Our properties are diversified across a range of primary uses, including gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail, golf course and other resort amenities and activities. 6 Table of Contents MSA / Property Location Approx. Casino Sq. Ft. (000 s) Approx. Gaming Units Hotel Rooms Lease Agreement Current Portfolio - Casinos Las Vegas Destination Gaming Caesars Palace Las Vegas Las Vegas, NV 124 1,600 3,970 CPLV Harrah s Las Vegas Las Vegas, NV 89 1,310 2,540 HLV San Francisco / Sacramento Harvey s Lake Tahoe Lake Tahoe, NV 44 720 740 Non-CPLV Harrah s Reno (1) Reno, NV 40 640 930 Non-CPLV Harrah s Lake Tahoe Stateline, NV 45 830 510 Non-CPLV Philadelphia Caesars Atlantic City Atlantic City, NJ 116 2,020 1,140 Non-CPLV Bally s Atlantic City Atlantic City, NJ 127 1,960 1,210 Non-CPLV Harrah s Philadelphia (2) Chester, PA 113 2,560 N/A Non-CPLV Chicago Horseshoe Hammond Hammond, IN 108 2,370 N/A Non-CPLV Harrah s Joliet (3) Joliet, IL 39 1,130 200 Joliet Cincinnati Hard Rock Cincinnati Cincinnati, OH 100 1,900 N/A Hard Rock Cincinnati Cleveland JACK Cleveland (4) Cleveland, OH 96 1,450 N/A JACK Cleveland/Thistledown JACK Thistledown Racino (4) North Randall, OH 57 1,480 N/A JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Dallas Horseshoe Bossier City Bossier City, LA 28 1,240 610 Non-CPLV Harrah s Louisiana Downs (2) Bossier City, LA 12 830 N/A Non-CPLV Margaritaville Resort Casino Bossier City, LA 27 1,270 395 Margaritaville Detroit Greektown Casino Hotel Detroit, MI 100 2,780 400 Greektown Kansas City Harrah s North Kansas City North Kansas City, MO 60 1,360 390 Non-CPLV St. Louis Century Cape Girardeau Cape Girardeau, MO 42 880 N/A Century Portfolio Century Caruthersville Caruthersville, MO 21 510 N/A Century Portfolio Pittsburgh Mountaineer Casino Resort Racetrack New Cumberland, WV 76 1,520 357 Century Portfolio Memphis Horseshoe Tunica Robinsonville, MS 63 1,110 510 Non-CPLV Tunica Roadhouse (5) Robinsonville, MS N/A N/A 140 Non-CPLV Omaha Harrah s Council Bluffs Council Bluffs, IA 21 570 250 Non-CPLV Horseshoe Council Bluffs Council Bluffs, IA 60 1,450 N/A Non-CPLV Nashville Harrah s Metropolis Metropolis, IL 24 870 260 Non-CPLV New Orleans Harrah s Gulf Coast Biloxi, MS 31 800 500 Non-CPLV Louisville Caesars Southern Indiana Elizabeth, IN 87 1,680 500 Non-CPLV Total Casinos 28 1,750 36,840 15,552 7 Table of Contents MSA / Property Location Approx. Casino Sq. Ft. (000 s) Approx. Gaming Units Hotel Rooms Lease Agreement Current Portfolio - Golf Courses Las Vegas Cascata Golf Course Boulder City, NV N/A N/A N/A N/A Rio Secco Golf Course Henderson, NV N/A N/A N/A N/A New Orleans Grand Bear Golf Course Saucier, MS N/A N/A N/A N/A Louisville Chariot Run Golf Course Laconia, IN N/A N/A N/A N/A Total Golf Courses 4 Total 32 1,750 36,840 15,552 Pending Acquisitions Philadelphia Harrah s Atlantic City (7) Atlantic City, NJ 156 2,270 2,590 Non-CPLV (6) New Orleans Harrah s New Orleans (7) New Orleans, LA 125 1,630 450 Non-CPLV (6) Laughlin Harrah s Laughlin (7) Laughlin, NV 56 910 1,510 Non-CPLV (6) Total 3 337 4,810 4,550 Put/Call Properties Indianapolis Indiana Grand Racing Casino (2)(7) Anderson, IN 84 2,070 N/A N/A Harrah s Hoosier Park (2)(7) Shelbyville, IN 54 1,070 N/A N/A Las Vegas Caesars Forum Convention Center Las Vegas, NV N/A N/A N/A N/A Total 3 138 3,140 (1) On December 31, 2019 we and Caesars entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Harrah s Reno asset for $50 million to a third party. We are entitled to receive 75% of the proceeds of the sale and Caesars is entitled to receive 25% of the proceeds. The annual rent payments under the Non-CPLV Lease Agreement will remain unchanged following completion of the disposition. (2) Property has live horse racing. (3) Owned by Harrah s Joliet Landco LLC, a joint venture of which VICI PropCo is the 80% owner and the managing member. (4) On January 24, 2020, we completed the previously announced transaction to acquire JACK Cleveland/Thistledown. (5) In January of 2019, Caesars combined the gaming operations of Tunica Roadhouse and Horseshoe Tunica. (6) The Harrah s Atlantic City, Harrah s New Orleans and Harrah s Laughlin properties will be added to the Non-CPLV Lease Agreement upon the closing of the Eldorado Transaction. (7) Subject to closing of Eldorado/Caesars Merger. See Item 1 - Business - Our Relationship with Caesars - Call Right Agreements and Item 7 - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Summary of Recent Activities - Eldorado Transaction. 8 Table of Contents Our Lease Agreements We derive substantially all of our revenues from rental revenue from the Lease Agreements for our properties, each of which are triple-net leases, pursuant to which the tenant bears responsibility for all property costs and expenses associated with ongoing maintenance and operation, including utilities, property tax and insurance. Caesars Lease Agreements - Overview The following is a summary of the material lease provisions of the Caesars Lease Agreements (which does not reflect the modifications to the Caesars Lease Agreements contemplated in connection with the closing of the Eldorado Transaction): ($ In thousands) Lease Provision (1) Non-CPLV Lease Agreement and Joliet Lease Agreement CPLV Lease Agreement HLV Lease Agreement Initial Term 15 years 15 years 15 years Renewal Terms Four, five-year terms Four, five-year terms Four, five-year terms Current Annual Rent (2) $508,534 $207,745 $89,157 Escalator commencement Lease year two Lease year two Lease year two Escalator (3) Lease years 2-5 - 1.5% Lease years 6-15 - Consumer price index subject to 2% floor Consumer price index subject to 2% floor Lease years 2-5 - 1% Lease years 6-15 - Consumer price index subject to 2% floor EBITDAR to Rent Ratio floor (4) 1.2x commencing lease year 8 1.7x commencing lease year 8 1.6x commencing lease year 6 Variable Rent commencement/reset Lease years 8 and 11 Lease years 8 and 11 Lease years 8 and 11 Variable Rent split (5) Lease years 8-10 - 70% Base Rent and 30% Variable Rent Lease years 11-15- 80% Base Rent and 20% Variable Rent 80% Base Rent and 20% Variable Rent 80% Base Rent and 20% Variable Rent Variable Rent percentage (5) 4% 4% 4% ____________________ (1) All capitalized terms used without definition herein have the meanings detailed in the applicable Caesars Lease Agreements. (2) In relation to the Non-CPLV Lease Agreement, Joliet Lease Agreement and CPLV Lease Agreement, the amount represents the current annual base rent payable for the current lease year which is the period from November 1, 2019 through October 31, 2020. In relation to the HLV Lease Agreement the amount represents current annual base rent payable for the current lease year which is the period from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. (3) Any amounts representing rents in excess of the CPI floors specified above are considered contingent rent in accordance with GAAP. N o such rent has been recognized for the year ended December 31, 2019. (4) In the event that the EBITDAR to Rent Ratio coverage is below the stated floor, the Escalator of the respective Caesars Lease Agreements will be reduced to such amount to achieve the stated EBITDAR to Rent Ratio coverage, provided that the amount shall never result in a decrease to the prior year s rent. The EBITDAR to Rent Ratio floor is conditioned upon obtaining a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. The coverage floors, which coverage floors serve to reduce the rent escalators under the Caesars Lease Agreements in the event that the EBITDAR to Rent Ratio coverage is below the stated floor, will be removed upon execution of the amendments to the Caesars Lease Agreements in connection with the closing of the Eldorado Transaction. (5) Variable Rent is not subject to the Escalator and is calculated as an increase or decrease of Net Revenues, as defined in the Caesars Lease Agreements, multiplied by the Variable Rent percentage. 9 Table of Contents Penn National Lease Agreements - Overview The following is a summary of the material lease provisions of the Penn National Lease Agreements: ($ In thousands) Lease Provision Margaritaville Leas