ITEM 1 BUSINESS Vulcan Materials Compan y operates primarily in the U.S. and is t he nation s largest supplier of construction aggregates ( primarily crushed stone, san d and gravel ), a major producer of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete, and a supplier of construction paving services . We provide the basic materials for the infrastructure needed to maintain and expand the U.S. economy. Delivered by trucks, ships, barges and trains, our products are the indispensable materials building homes, offices, places of worship, schools, hospitals and factories, as well as vital infrastructure including highways, bridges, roads, ports and harbors, water systems, campuses, dams, airports and rail networks. As of December 31, 2021, we had 404 active aggregates facilities as shown below. While aggregates is our focus and primary business, as of December 31, 2021, we further served our customers through our 69 asphalt facilities and 173 concrete facilities located in Alabama, Arizona, California, Maryland, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Washington D.C. and the Bahamas. BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategy and competitive advantage are based on our strength in aggregates, which are used in most types of construction and in the production of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete. Our strategy for long-term value creation is built on : ( 1) an aggregates - focus ed business , ( 2) a disciplined approach to growth management and capital allocation , ( 3) a focus on continuous compounding improvement in profitability, ( 4) a holistic approach to land management , and ( 5) our commitment to safety, health and the environment . Part I 3 1. AGGREGATES FOCUS Aggregates are used in virtually all types of public and private construction, practically no substitutes for quality aggregates exist, and significant barriers to entry exist in most markets. Vulcan is uniquely positioned as the largest aggregates supplier in the U.S. and the most aggregates-focused public company. Source: 2020 reported financial information and Company estimates. VMC excludes U.S. Concrete, which was acquired in August 2021. Given o ur focus on aggregates , we: n TAKE ADVANTAGE OF SIZE AND SCALE : While certain aspects of each aggregates operation are unique, such as its location within a local market and its particular geological characteristics, every operation uses a similar group of assets to produce saleable aggregates and provide customer service. Our 404 active aggregates facilities as of December 31, 2021 provide opportunities to share and scale best practices across our operations and to procure equipment (fixed and mobile), parts, supplies and services in an efficient and cost-effective manner, both regionally and nationally. Additionally, we are able to share best practices across the organization and leverage our size for administrative support, customer service, accounting, procurement, technical support and engineering. BUILD AND HOLD SUBSTANTIAL RESERVES : Our reserves are critical to our long-term success. We currently have 15.6 billion tons of proven and probable aggregates reserves. They are strategically located throughout the United States in high-growth areas that are expected to require large amounts of aggregates to meet future construction demand. Moreover, there are significant barriers to entry in many metropolitan markets due to stringent zoning and permitting regulations. These restrictions curtail expansion in certain areas, but they also increase the value of our reserves at existing locations. Part I 4 2. Growth management AND CAPITAL ALLOCATION growth management : D emand for our products is dependent on construction activity and correlates positively with changes in population growth, household formation and employment. As such, w e have pursued a strategy to increase our presence in U.S. metropolitan areas that are expected to grow the most rapidly and to divest assets that are no longer considered part of our long-term growth strategy. During the period 20 20 - 20 30 , Moody s Analytics projects that 75 % of the U.S. population growth, 72 % of household formation and 70 % of new jobs will occur in Vulcan-served state s. O ur coast-to-coast footprint serves 20 of the top 25 highest-growth metropolitan statistical areas in 22 states plus the U.S. Virgin Islands and Washington D.C. Th e close proximity of our a ggregates reserve s and our p roduction facilitie s to this projected population growth creates many opportunities to invest capital in high-return projects. Source: Moody s Analytics as of December 10, 2021 Our top ten revenue producing states accounted for 88% of our 2021 revenues while our top five accounted for 61%. VULCAN S TOP TEN REVENUE PRODUCING STATES IN 2021 1. Texas 6. Florida 2. California 7. Alabama 3. Georgia 8. Arizona 4. Tennessee 9. North Carolina 5. Virginia 10. South Carolina Part I 5 Since becoming a public company in 1956, Vulcan has principally grown by mergers and acquisitions. In 1999, we acquired CalMat Co., thereby expanding our aggregates operations into California and Arizona and making us one of the nation s leading producers of asphalt mix. In 2007, we acquired Florida Rock Industries, Inc., expanding our aggregates business in Florida and our aggregates and ready-mixed concrete businesses in other Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern states. In 2017, we acquired Aggregates USA, greatly expanding our ability to serve customers in Florida, Georgia and South Carolina. In 2021, we acquired U.S. Concrete, enhancing and expanding our aggregates-led business in attractive growing metropolitan areas. While an aggregates-focused business, we selectively make investments in downstream products that drive local market profitability. O ur downstream businesses (asphalt and concrete) use Vulcan-produced aggregates almost exclusivel y. In 2017, we entered the asphalt market in Tennessee through the acquisition of several asphalt mix operations and a construction paving business. In 2018, we entered the asphalt mix and construction paving markets in Alabama and expanded our asphalt operations and service offerings in Texas through the acquisition of several asphalt mix operations and construction paving businesses. Through our 2021 acquisition of U.S. Concrete, we entered the Oklahoma, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and U.S. Virgin Islands concrete markets and expanded our California, Texas and Washington D.C. concrete markets. A dditionally, throughout our history, we have completed many bolt-on aggregates and downstream acquisitions that have contributed significantly to our growth. From 2019 to 2021, we invested over $1,758.1 million in acquisitions as outlined in Note 19 Acquisitions and Divestitures in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. capital allocation : Our long-term capital allocation strategy is focused on the following priorities: Operating Capital (maintain and grow the value of our franchise) Growth Capital (including greenfields and acquisitions) Dividend Growth (with a keen focus on sustainability) Return Excess Cash to Shareholders (primarily via share repurchases) During 2021, we reinvested $451.3 million into core operating maintenance capital and internal growth capital, in addition to $362.2 million and $384.1 million reinvested in 2020 and 2019, respectively. These investments are fundamental actions that sustain and strengthen the business. They improve the longer-term efficiency, capacity and flexibility of our production, and they support our strong commitment to superior customer service. As illustrated below, our annual Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) decreased 0.1 percentage points (10 basis points) in 2021. While Adjusted EBITDA increased 10% in 2021 (net earnings attributable to Vulcan increased 15% in 2021), invested capital also increased by 10%, primarily as a result of the U.S. Concrete acquisition. We remain committed to driving improvement in our ROIC through solid operating earnings growth coupled with disciplined capital management. 1 ROIC and Adjusted EBITDA are Non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures are defined and reconciled within Item 7 under the caption Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Part I 6 3. compounding improvement in profitability Our focus on the following four strategic disciplines has made us one of the most profitable public companies in the industry (as measured by aggregates gross profit per ton). Operational Excellence Continuous and sustainable improvements in both our operating disciplines and our industry-leading safety performance coupled with better asset utilization through improved availability and throughput leads to effective cost control. Strategic Sourcing Leveraging common practices and innovation leads to more time in our plants and with our suppliers to deliver the right parts and services at the right time and optimize the total cost of ownership. Commercial Excellence Clearly defined roles and responsibilities together with access to real time, forward-looking metrics lead to our sales teams spending less time on non-selling activities and more time responding to our customers needs. Logistics Innovation Partnering with our customers (truck drivers and contractors) to provide a bundled logistics solution with digital shipping records and on-site, mobile visibility leads to streamlined scheduling, speed and accuracy of delivery, and efficient back-office processes. We manage these disciplines locally and align our talent and incentives accordingly. Our knowledgeable and experienced workforce and our flexible production capabilities allow us to manage operational and overhead costs aggressively. As a result, aggregates gross profit per ton has improved from $5.32 in 2019 to $5.81 in 2021. 4 . LA ND MANAGEMENT With more than 240,000 acres in our land portfolio, a long-term holistic approach to preserving land and water is integral to sustaining our success. From pre-mining to mining to reclamation, we are actively managing the entire life cycle of our land, creating maximum value for the business, our shareholders and our communities. We are putting land to use before we mine by creating opportunities for agriculture and timber development. After mining, our land and water assets will be converted to other valuable uses including drinking water reservoirs, aquifer recharge basins, public parks, habitat mitigation banks, wetlands, productive farmland and residential and commercial developments. In 2021, we sold previously mined land in Southern California that we had reclaimed for commercial and retail development for net proceeds of $182.3 million resulting in a pretax net gain of $114.7 million. Because of the evolving needs of our communities, we listen to and collaborate with our neighbors to prepare the land for its highest and best use after mining is complete. Our work with state, regional and local governments to develop solutions today will benefit future generations. 5 . SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT A strategy for sustainable, long-term value creation must include doing right by your employees, your neighbors and the environment in which you operate. Our leadership recognized decades ago the significance and importance of leadership in the Safety, Health and Environmental areas. The Safety, Health and Environmental Affairs Committee of our Board of Directors, along with the full Board, has oversight responsibility for our environmental, safety and health programs and results. Our Safety, Health Environmental Management Committee, made up of the senior leadership team along with other key senior personnel from cross-functional operations and staff disciplines, has the ongoing management responsibility for all of our safety, health and environmental initiatives. We are a leader in our industry in safety performance by applying the shared experiences, expertise and resources at each of our locally led sites with an emphasis on taking care of one another. In 2021, we achieved an overall Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) safety performance of 0.98 injuries per 200,000 employee hours worked, which is both industry-leading and considered world-class. Our community relations programs serve our neighbors while ensuring that we grow and thrive in the communities where we operate. We leveraged our charitable foundation and company funds to support food banks, healthcare services, childhood education remote learning programs and other initiatives designed to lessen the difficulties experienced in many of our communities. Our charitable foundation alone has provided more than $60 million in support over the past 20 years to essential charitable, civic and educational organizations that strengthen and enrich our communities. Part I 7 We focus on our environmental stewardship programs with the same intensity that we bring to our health and safety initiatives. Our environmental stewardship commitment is designed to protect plant and animal species and habitats, as well as the air we breathe, the water we use and the planet we all share. In all parts of our company, from local operations to our corporate and regional offices to our international business and ocean-going shipping, we are focused on ensuring that our operations are efficient in ways that are economically and environmentally sustainable. We are proud to maintain the third largest number of Certified Wildlife Habitat sites of any industrial company in the U.S. for 2021, in partnership with the international Wildlife Habitat Council. For a discussion of our energy management and greenhouse gas emissions initiatives, see the Climate Change section later within this Item 1 under Other Business-Related Items. PRODUCT LINES Our products are used to build the roads, tunnels, bridges, railroads and airports that connect us, and to build the hospitals, schools, shopping centers, factories and places of worship that are essential to our lives, our communities and the economy. We have four operating (and reportable) segments (Aggregates, Asphalt, Concrete and Calcium) organized around our principal product lines. As of December 31, 2021, we had 404 active aggregates facilities, 69 asphalt facilities, 173 concrete facilities and 1 calcium facility. Our 2021 total revenues and gross profit by segment are illustrated as follows (Calcium revenues and gross profit were less than one percent): For actual amounts, see Note 15 Segment Reporting in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We generally ship our products upon receipt of a purchase order or in some cases simply a price quote. Therefore, we do not have a significant order backlog. 1. AGGREGATES Our construction aggregates are used in a number of ways: as a base material underneath highways, walkways, airport runways, parking lots and railroads to aid in water filtration, purification and erosion control as a raw material used in combination with other resources to construct many of the items we rely on to sustain our quality of life, including: houses and apartments roads, bridges and parking lots schools and hospitals commercial buildings and retail space sewer systems power plants airports and runways Part I 8 AGGREGATES INDUSTRY Factors that affect the U.S. aggregates industry and our business include: Location and transportation of reserves: Aggregates have a high weight-to-value ratio and, in most cases, must be produced near where they are used; if not, transportation can cost more than the materials, rendering them uncompetitive compared to locally produced materials. Where practical, we have operations located close to our local markets because the cost of trucking materials long distances is prohibitive. Approximately 82% of our total aggregates shipments are delivered exclusively from the producing location to the customer by truck. Exceptions to this typical market structure include areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Eastern Seaboard where there are limited supplies of locally available, high-quality aggregates. We serve these markets from quarries that have access to cost-effective long-haul transportation shipping by barge and rail and from our quarry on Mexico s Yucatan Peninsula with our fleet of Panamax-class, self-unloading ships. Additionally, as a result of our 2021 acquisition of U.S. Concrete, we serve markets in California and Hawaii from our quarry in British Columbia, Canada by means of a long-term marine shipping agreement with CSL Americas. A pproximately 17% of our total aggregates shipments are delivered by truck to the customer after reaching a sales yard by rail or water. The remaining 1% of aggregates shipments are delivered directly to the customer by rail or water. Limited product substitution: There are limited substitutes for quality aggregates. Recycled concrete and asphalt have certain applications as a lower-cost alternative to virgin aggregates. However, many types of construction projects cannot be served by recycled concrete and require the use of virgin aggregates to meet technical specifications and performance-based criteria for durability, strength and other qualities. Likewise, the amount of recycled asphalt included in asphalt mix as a substitute for aggregates is limited due to specifications. Highly fragmented industry: The U.S. aggregates industry is composed of over 5,500 companies that manage close to 11,000 operations. This fragmented structure provides many opportunities for consolidation. Companies in the industry commonly enter new markets or expand positions in existing markets through the acquisition of existing facilities. Through strategic acquisitions and investments, we have developed an unmatched coast-to-coast footprint of strategically located permitted reserves concentrated in and serving the nation s key growth centers. We have over 20,000 customers in 22 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Washington D.C., the Bahamas, British Columbia (Canada), and Quintana Roo (Mexico). Flexible production capabilities: The production of aggregates is a mechanical process in which stone is crushed and, through a series of screens, separated into various sizes depending on how it will be used. Direct production costs of aggregates primarily include: a) wages and fringe benefits; b) depreciation, depletion, accretion and amortization of capital (or long-term) assets; c) operating parts and supplies; d) repair and maintenance; e) outside services and f) energy (primarily electricity and diesel). Production capacity is flexible by adjusting operating hours to meet changing market demand. We are currently operating considerably below full capacity, making us extremely well positioned to further benefit from economies of scale when additional growth materializes. raw material inputs largely ControlLED: Unlike typical industrial manufacturing industries, the aggregates industry does not require the input of raw material beyond owned or leased aggregates reserves. Stone, sand and gravel are naturally occurring resources. However, production does require the use of explosives, hydrocarbon fuels and electric power. Demand cycles: Long-term growth in demand for aggregates is largely driven by growth in population, jobs and households. While short-term and medium-term demand for aggregates fluctuates with economic cycles, declines have historically been followed by strong recoveries. The drivers underpinning long-term demand and sustained pricing growth remain firmly in place in both the public and private sectors of the economy. They include: population growth; gains in total employment (short-term disruption due to COVID-19 pandemic) and in household income and wages; a continuing increase in household formations; the growing need for additional housing stock and housing demand; a multi-year federal transportation law in place and continuing increases in transportation funding at state and local levels; stable state tax receipts; public investment in infrastructure that is still well below the long-term trend-line; and a multi-year federal infrastructure investment law and continued political awareness and focus on the need to invest in infrastructure. Part I 9 AGGREGATES MARKETS We focus on the U.S. markets with above-average long-term expected population growth and where construction is expected to expand. Because transportation is a significant part of the delivered cost of aggregates, our facilities are typically located in the markets they serve or have access to economical transportation via rail, barge or ship to a particular end market. We serve both the public and the private sectors. Public sector construction activity has historically been more stable and less cyclical than privately-funded construction, and it generally requires more aggregates per dollar of construction spending. Private sector construction (primarily residential and nonresidential buildings) typically is more affected by general economic cycles than publicly-funded projects (particularly highways, roads and bridges), which tend to receive more consistent levels of funding throughout economic cycles. Source: Company estimates Part I 10 PUBLIC SECTOR CONSTRUCTION MARKET Public sector construction includes spending by federal, stat e and local governments for highways, bridges, buildings, airports, schools, prisons, sewer and waste disposal systems, water supply systems, dams, reservoirs and other public construction projects. Construction for power plants and other utilities is funded from both public and private sources. In 2021, publicly-funded construction accounted for approximately 42% of our total aggregates shipments, and approximately 22% of our aggregates sales by volume were used in highway construction projects. Public Sector Funding: Generally, public sector construction spending is more stable than private sector construction spending; public sector spending is less sensitive to interest rates and has historically been supported by multi-year laws, which provide certainty in funding amounts, program structures, rules and regulations. Federal spending is governed by authorization, budget and appropriations laws. The level of state and local spending on infrastructure varies across the United States and depends on individual state needs and economies. STATE AND LOCAL TRANSPORTATION FUNDING: Since 2012, 32 states have increased or adjusted taxes on motor fuel to increase revenues available for transportation investment. Most recently, in 2020 the Virginia legislature raised its statewide gas tax, and voters in Arkansas renewed a cent sales tax measure originally approved in 2012, to provide significant revenue for highway construction and maintenance through motor fuel tax increases. Other states have increased revenues outside of fuel taxes or made one-time increases. Since 2012, eleven Vulcan-served states representing 88% of our 2021 total revenues have averaged a 69% increase in their states revenues for highways. Several states also index their gas taxes to a measure of inflation, including Alabama, California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland and North Carolina. In addition, we benefit from state and local transportation funding ballot measures. Across the U.S., voters in 17 states approved 87% of 323 measures in 2021, which will generate $7.6 billion in new and recurring transportation investment. This continues a trend in which voters have approved 84% of 2,608 transportation investment ballot measures since 2010. Major transportation funding measures in Vulcan-served areas approved in 2021 are estimated to result in $3.3 billion in revenues and bond proceeds primarily dedicated to roads, streets and bridges. federal highway funding : In November 2021, President Biden signed a historic, bi-partisan infrastructure bill, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA), into law. The IIJA provides the largest increase in federal highway, road and bridge funding in more than six decades with a five-year reauthorization of Federal-Aid Highway Program funding. The total Federal-Aid Highway Program obligation limitation under IIJA starts at $66.9 billion in FFY 2022 and increases to $72.1 billion in FFY 2026, for a total of nearly $350 billion. These numbers include one-time additional funding for large road and bridge projects, such as $40 billion for bridge repair, replacement and rehabilitation. Of the bridge money, approximately $16.5 billion is earmarked for projects in Vulcan-served states. The long-term nature of the highway program reauthorization in the IIJA is important. The Federal-Aid Highway Program is the largest component of the law and has provided, on average, 50% of all state capital investment in roads and bridges over the last 10 years. This multi-year authorization and the associated dedicated funding provides state departments of transportation with the ability to plan and execute long-range, complex highway projects. In states where we operate, we are well positioned to serve the large general contractors who will compete for new freight and other major capacity projects that will move forward with IIJA and policy implementation. Importantly, building on improvements in the two prior reauthorization laws The Fixing America s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act) and Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21 st Century Act (MAP-21) the IIJA further streamlines project delivery and environmental approval advancements. Project financing remains an important additional component of overall surface transportation spending. The IIJA expands access to private activity bonds for highway and intermodal projects, and sets the Transportation Infrastructure Finance Innovation Act (TIFIA) program authorized at $250 million per year. Part I 11 ADDITIONAL FEDERAL INFRASTUCTURE INVESTMENTS UNDER THE IIJA: The IIJA allocates a total of approximately $1.2 trillion in federal funds for infrastructure investment, including almost $550 billion in new spending. A little more than half of the new money is dedicated to transportation sector projects. Beyond highway infrastructure, Vulcan could benefit from IIJA-funded, aggregates-intensive infrastructure projects, such as railroads, airports, seaports, and drinking and wastewater systems. FEDERAL WATER Resources INFRASTRUCTURE: In December 2020, President Trump signed the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (WRDA 2020) into law, enacting the fourth consecutive biennial authorization for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) since 2014. WRDA 2020 reauthorizes needed investment in America s ports, channels, locks, dams, and other infrastructure that supports the maritime and waterways transportation system and provides flood protection for communities. It also improves the United States Environmental Protection Agency s (EPA) programs for storm water, water recycling, and sewer overflow projects. The FFY 2021 appropriations for the Army Corps, also passed as part of the year-end legislative package, funds for the first time the Army Corps Water Infrastructure Financing Program (CWIFP), which was authorized in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA 2014). Modeled after the highly popular TIFIA program in the surface transportation sector, CWIFP will accelerate non-federal investments in water resources infrastructure by providing long-term, low-cost loans to creditworthy borrowers. P rivate sector CONSTRUCTION MARKET The private sector construction markets include both nonresidential building construction and residential construction and are considerably more cyclical than public construction. In 2021, privately-funded construction accounted for approximately 58% of our total aggregates shipments. Nonresidential Construction: Private nonresidential building construction includes a wide array of projects. Such projects generally are more aggregates intensive than residential construction. Overall demand in private nonresidential construction generally is driven by job growth, vacancy rates, private infrastructure needs and demographic trends. The growth of the private workforce creates demand for offices, hotels and restaurants. Likewise, population growth generates demand for stores, shopping centers, warehouses and parking decks as well as hospitals, places of worship and entertainment facilities. Large industrial projects, such as a new manufacturing facility, can increase the need for other manufacturing plants to supply parts and assemblies. Construction activity in this end market is influenced by a firm s ability to finance a project and the cost of such financing. This end market also includes capital investments in public nonresidential facilities to meet the needs of a growing population. Residential Construction: Household formations in Vulcan-served states continue to outpace household formations in the rest of the United States. The majority of residential construction is for single-family housing with the remainder consisting of multi-family construction (i.e., two family houses, apartment buildings and condominiums). Public housing comprises only a small portion of housing demand. Construction activity in this end market is influenced by the cost and availability of mortgage financing and builders ability to maintain skilled labor. U.S. housing starts, as measured by Dodge Data Analytics data, peaked in early 2006 at over 2 million units annually. By the end of 2009, total housing starts had declined to less than 0.6 million units, well below prior historical lows of approximately 1 million units annually. In 2021, total annual housing starts in the U.S. reached 1.75 million units. ADDITIONAL AGGREGATES PRODUCTS AND MARKETS We sell aggregates that are used as balla st fo r construction and maintenance of railroad tracks. We also sell riprap and jetty stone for eros