ITEM 1 BUSINESS Vulcan Materials Compan y operates primarily in the U.S. and is t he nation s largest supplier of construction aggregates ( primarily crushed stone, san d and gravel ) and a major producer of aggregates-intensive downstream products such as asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete. We provide the basic materials for the infrastructure needed to maintain and expand the U.S. economy. Delivered by trucks, ships, barges and trains, our products are the indispensable materials building homes, offices, places of worship, schools, hospitals and factories, as well as vital infrastructure including highways, bridges, roads, ports and harbors, water systems, campuses, dams, airports and rail networks. As of December 31, 2023, we had 397 active aggregates facilities as shown below. Production and sales are currently halted at our Calica operations in Mexico. For additional information, see Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additionally, w e further serv e our customers through our 66 asphalt facilities and 63 concrete facilities located in Alabama, Arizona, California, Maryland, New Mexico, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Washington D.C. Our top ten revenue producing states accounted for 88% of our 2023 revenues while our top five accounted for 65%. VULCAN S TOP TEN REVENUE PRODUCING STATES IN 2023 1. Texas 6. Florida 2. California 7. Arizona 3. Georgia 8. Alabama 4. Tennessee 9. South Carolina 5. Virginia 10. North Carolina Part I 3 BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategy and competitive advantage are based on our strength in aggregates which are used in most types of construction and in the production of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete. Our strategy for long-term value creation is built on : ( 1) an aggregates - focus ed business , ( 2) an emphasis on durable growth , ( 3 ) a holistic approach to land management , and (4 ) our commitment to safety, health and the environment . 1. AGGREGATES FOCUS Aggregates are an essential product with high barriers to entry, limited substitutes and very favorable pricing characteristics. Vulcan is uniquely positioned as the largest aggregates supplier in the U.S. and the most aggregates-focused public company. Given o ur focus on aggregates , we: TAKE ADVANTAGE OF SIZE AND SCALE : While certain aspects of each aggregates operation are unique, such as its location within a local market and its particular geological characteristics, every operation uses a similar group of assets to produce saleable aggregates and provide customer service. Our 397 active aggregates facilities as of December 31, 2023 provide opportunities to share and scale best practices across our operations and to procure equipment (fixed and mobile), parts, supplies and services in an efficient and cost-effective manner, both regionally and nationally. Additionally, we are able to leverage our size for administrative support, customer service, accounting, procurement, technical support and engineering. BUILD AND HOLD SUBSTANTIAL RESERVES : Our reserves are critical to our long-term success. We currently have 15.6 billion tons of proven and probable aggregates reserves. They are strategically located to economically serve high-growth areas in the United States that are expected to require large amounts of aggregates to meet future construction demand. Moreover, there are significant barriers to entry in many metropolitan markets due to stringent zoning and permitting regulations. These restrictions curtail expansion in certain areas, but they also increase the value of our reserves at existing locations. While aggregates is our focus and primary business, we also offer aggregates-intensive downstream asphalt and concrete products in select markets where these products enhance our aggregates-driven returns. Part I 4 D emand for our products is dependent on construction activity and correlates positively with changes in populatio n, employment and household formation s . As such, w e have pursued a strategy to increase our presence in U.S. metropolitan areas that are expected to grow the most rapidly and to divest assets that are no longer considered part of our long-term growth strategy. During the next decade (2023 - 2033), Woods Poole Economics projects that 76% of the U.S. population growth, 75% of household formations and 74% of new jobs will occur in Vulcan-served state s. O ur coast-to-coast footprint serves 35 of the top 50 highest-growth metropolitan statistical areas in 23 states plu s Washington D.C. Th e close proximity of our a ggregates reserve s and our p roduction facilitie s to this projected population growth creates many opportunities to invest capital in high-return projects. Source: Woods Poole Economics, Complete Economic and Demographic Data Source (CEDDS) 2023 Part I 5 2. DURABLE GROWTH Our durable growth comes from organic growth in our existing business as well as inorganic growth through mergers and acquisitions supplemented with greenfield developments. Together, this three-pronged approach enables us to enhance our core and expand our reach. The result is an ability to grow our aggregates unit profitability throughout the cycle. ENHANCING OUR CORE : We drive organic growth and differentiate ourselves from other aggregates producers through our strategic disciplines, the Vulcan Way of Selling (Commercial Excellence Logistics Innovation) and the Vulcan Way of Operating (Operational Excellence Strategic Sourcing). The Vulcan Way of Selling uses technology, innovation and analytics to win work and capture value. Custom, proprietary technology gives us real-time, forward looking insight into all our end markets. Coaching and development of our people, along with clear performance metrics and accountability, drive sales execution. The Vulcan Way of Operating is the combination of tools, processes and approaches used by our teams to drive value in our operations every day. By focusing on consistent execution, production efficiency and controlling costs, we provide the highest quality material and the best service to our customers. Expanding on these strategic disciplines: Commercial Excellence We place great emphasis on the unique characteristics of each geographic market, and we interact with our customers accordingly. We leverage our coast-to-coast presence, sharing best practices and real-time, forward-looking metrics with our sales teams to drive high quality discussions, value selling and improved solutions for our customers. We have clearly defined roles and responsibilities which enable our sales teams to spend less time on non-selling activities and more time responding to our customers needs. Logistics Innovation Our industry-leading logistics team manages the shipments of nearly half of our products. Our logistics systems produce real-time information including on-site and mobile visibility to orders, deliveries and digital shipping records. Partnering with our customers (truck drivers and contractors), our bundled logistics solutions enable streamlined scheduling, speed and accuracy of delivery, as well as efficient back-office processes. Operational Excellence We strive for continuous and sustainable improvements in our operating disciplines and our industry-leading safety performance. Leveraging our size and diversity, we harness technology and innovation to equip our operators with the tools and information they need to improve our customer service, asset utilization and production efficiencies. We are dedicated to continuous improvement of our safety programs through ongoing internal inspections, regulatory audits and sharing of best practices. Strategic Sourcing We focus on value preservation and creation in our sourcing, leveraging our scale to save money across the organization while making sure our employees have the supplies and equipment they need. Deploying best practices and innovation allows us to spend more time in our plants and with our suppliers to deliver the right parts and services at the right time and optimize the total cost of ownership. As a result of these strategic disciplines, from 2021 to 2023, aggregates gross profit per ton has increased from $5.81 to $7.40 (an increase of 27%), and aggregates cash gross profit per ton has increased from $7.43 to $9.46 (an increase of 27%). Aggregates cash gross profit per ton is a Non-GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP financial measures are defined and reconciled within Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. EXPANDING OUR REACH : We also drive growth by expanding our reach through mergers and acquisitions and by pursuing greenfield development in anticipation of future growth. Our disciplined approach focuses on aggregates, aims to achieve a number one or number two position in the markets we serve and strategically pursues downstream asphalt and concrete businesses complementary to our aggregates position in select markets. Since becoming a public company in 1956, Vulcan has principally grown by mergers and acquisitions. In 1999, we acquired CalMat Co., thereby expanding our aggregates operations into California and Arizona and making us one of the nation s leading producers of asphalt mix. In 2007, we acquired Florida Rock Industries, Inc., expanding our aggregates business in Florida and our aggregates and ready-mixed concrete businesses in other Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern states. In 2017, we acquired Aggregates USA, greatly expanding our ability to serve customers in Florida, Georgia and South Carolina. In 2021, we acquired U.S. Concrete, enhancing and expanding our aggregates-led business in attractive growing metropolitan areas. Part I 6 While an aggregates-focused business, we selectively make investments in downstream asphalt and concrete products that drive local market profitability. O ur downstream businesse s u se internally -produced aggregates almost exclusivel y when available in the market from a Vulcan aggregates operation. In 2017, we entered the asphalt market in Tennessee through the acquisition of several asphalt mix operations and a construction paving business. In 2018, we entered the asphalt mix and construction paving markets in Alabama and expanded our asphalt operations and service offerings in Texas through the acquisition of several asphalt mix operations and construction paving businesses. Through our 2021 acquisition of U.S. Concrete, we entered the New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and U.S. Virgin Islands concrete markets and expanded our California, Texas and Washington D.C. concrete markets. To optimize our asset portfolio consistent with our aggregates-focused business model, we subsequently exited the New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania concrete markets in 2022 and exited the Texas concrete market in 2023. A dditionally, throughout our history, we have completed many bolt-on aggregates and downstream acquisitions that have contributed significantly to our growth. From 2021 to 2023, we invested $2,233.1 million in acquisitions as outlined in Note 19 Acquisitions and Divestitures in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. During the last 10 years, we have completed almost 40 acquisitions, including more than 70 aggregates quarries and sales yards in our top 10 revenue states. Our annual Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) increased 2.8 percentage points (280 basis points) in 2023 as a result of solid operating earnings growth and disciplined capital management. Adjusted EBITDA increased 24% in 2023 (net earnings attributable to Vulcan increased 62%), while invested capital only increased by 2%. 1 ROIC and Adjusted EBITDA are Non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures are defined and reconciled within Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. 3 . LA ND MANAGEMENT With approximately 300,000 acres in our land portfolio, a long-term holistic approach to preserving land and water is integral to sustaining our success. From pre-mining to mining to reclamation, we are actively managing the entire life cycle of our land to create maximum value for the business, our shareholders and our communities. We are putting land to use before we mine by creating opportunities such as agricultural use and timber development. After mining, our land and water assets will be converted to other valuable uses including drinking water reservoirs, aquifer recharge basins, public parks, habitat mitigation banks, wetlands, productive farmland and residential and commercial developments. In 2023, we sold excess real estate in Virginia for net proceeds of $66.1 million resulting in a pretax gain of $65.7 million and real estate associated with a former recycled concrete facility in Illinois for net proceeds of $16.5 million resulting in a pretax gain of $15.2 million. In 2022, we sold excess real estate in Southern California for net proceeds of $23.6 million resulting in a pretax gain of $23.5 million. In 2021, we sold previously mined land in Southern California that we had reclaimed for commercial and retail development for net proceeds of $182.3 million resulting in a pretax net gain of $114.7 million. Part I 7 Because of the evolving needs of our communities, we listen to and collaborate with our neighbors to prepare the land for its highest and best use. Many of our operations not only meet regulatory requirements for reclamation planning at the end of a quarry s life but they also use a proactive approach to conservation and engagement while the quarries are in operation. For example, we originally purchased land in Polk County, Florida, with the intention of building a quarry. However, after an extensive review of the environmental impacts to sensitive species, our environmental team collaborated with various governmental agencies to identify an alternative beneficial use for the land. The property became the Tiger Creek Conservation Bank. Beginning in 2022, this property now serves as a protected habitat for endangered or sensitive species. Designation as a conservation bank allows us to generate revenue by selling mitigation credits for third party impacts to endangered or sensitive species or to utilize those credits for our impacts. Our engagement with state, regional and local governments to develop solutions like this today will benefit future generations. 4 . SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT A strategy for sustainable, long-term value creation must include doing right by our employees, our neighbors and the environment in which we operate. Our leadership recognized decades ago the significance and importance of leadership in the Safety, Health and Environmental areas. The Safety, Health and Environmental Affairs Committee of our Board of Directors, along with the full Board, has oversight responsibility for our safety, health and environmental programs and results. Our Safety, Health Environmental Management Committee, made up of the senior leadership team along with other key senior personnel from cross-functional operations and staff disciplines, has the ongoing management responsibility for all of our safety, health and environmental initiatives. We are a leader in our industry in safety performance by applying the shared experiences, expertise and resources at each of our locally led sites with an emphasis on taking care of one another. In 2023, we experienced an overall Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) safety performance of 1.2 injuries per 200,000 employee hours worked, which is well below the 2022 industry average of 1.8 injuries. Our community relations programs serve our neighbors while ensuring that we grow and thrive in the communities where we operate. We leverage our charitable foundation and company funds to support food banks, healthcare services, childhood education remote learning programs and other initiatives designed to lessen the difficulties experienced in many of our communities. Our charitable foundation alone has provided nearly $70 million in support over the past 20 years to essential charitable, civic and educational organizations that strengthen and enrich our communities. The actions of our Fort Myers team in Florida are a prime example of our commitment to community relations. In the wake of Hurricane Ian, which struck Florida s west coast in September 2022, among those affected were many of our own employees; yet the same employees set aside their own hardships and reported to the facility just hours after the storm. We produced and delivered more than 145,000 tons of essential construction materials, with the support of more than 60 employees and 100 truck drivers, for the repair of the Sanibel Causeway, which enabled its reopening 10 days ahead of schedule. Our environmental stewardship commitment is designed to protect plant and animal species and habitats, as well as the air we breathe, the water we use and the planet we all share. In all parts of our company, from local operations to our corporate and regional offices to our international business and ocean-going shipping, we are focused on ensuring that our operations are efficient in ways that are economically and environmentally sustainable. As an example of our commitment to environmental stewardship, we have been a proud national partner of the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) since 1990 when our Sanders quarry became the first site in the U.S. to obtain certification by WHC. We currently maintain 39 WHC certified sites containing wildlife enhancement programs. Our solar generation efforts at our San Emidio Quarry in California provide another example of our commitment to environmental stewardship. We converted 10 acres of our quarry into a solar facility which is projected to generate more than four million kilowatt-hours of clean renewable energy annually, enough to provide approximately 70% of the quarry s annual electricity needs. This facility supports our goals to source renewable energy, reducing the carbon intensity of our products and improving energy resiliency. In addition, the recycling of aggregates-containing construction materials including concrete and recycled asphalt pavement (RAP) is an important part of our business. The sources of these materials are highway, infrastructure and other demolition projects where concrete structures or asphalt paving is being removed. During 2023, we reused 2.0 million tons of RAP and recycled 1.9 million tons of concrete. The recycling of these aggregates-containing construction materials reduces carbon emissions that impact climate change while providing a valuable service to our customers and communities, extending the life of our aggregates reserves and helping us manage the cost of production. For a discussion of our energy management and greenhouse gas emissions initiatives, see the Environmental Stewardship and Climate Change section later within this Item 1 under Other Business-Related Items. Part I 8 PRODUCT LINES Our products are used to build the roads, tunnels, bridges, railroads and airports that connect us, and to build the hospitals, schools, shopping centers, factories and places of worship that are essential to our lives, our communities and the economy. We have four operating (and reportable) segments (Aggregates, Asphalt, Concrete and Calcium) organized around our principal product lines. As of December 31, 2023, we had 397 active aggregates facilities, 66 asphalt facilities, 63 concrete facilities and 1 calcium facility. Our 2023 total revenues and gross profit by segment are illustrated as follows (Calcium revenues and gross profit were less than one percent): For actual amounts, see Note 15 Segment Reporting in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 1. AGGREGATES Our construction aggregates are used in a number of ways: as a base material underneath highways, walkways, airport runways, parking lots and railroads to aid in water filtration, purification and erosion control as a raw material used in combination with other resources to construct many of the items we rely on to sustain our quality of life, including: houses and apartments roads, bridges and parking lots schools and hospitals commercial buildings and retail space sewer systems power plants airports and runways Part I 9 AGGREGATES INDUSTRY Key strengths of the U.S. aggregates industry and our business include: Location and transportation of reserves: Aggregates have a high weight-to-price ratio that makes transportation expensive relative to the cost of the material. In most cases, aggregates are produced near where they are used so that the transportation cost does not exceed the product cost. Where practical, we have operations located close to our local markets because the cost of trucking materials long distances is prohibitive. Approximately 82% of our total aggregates shipments are delivered exclusively from the producing location to the customer by truck. Exceptions to this typical market structure include areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Eastern Seaboard where there are limited supplies of locally available, high-quality aggregates. We serve these markets from quarries that have access to cost-effective long-haul transportation shipping by barge and rail and from our quarries in Quintana Roo, Mexico (see the NAFTA Arbitration section in Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ) and Puerto Cort s, Honduras (acquired in 2022) with our fleet of Panamax-class, self-unloading ships. Additionally, we serve markets in California and Hawaii from our quarry in British Columbia, Canada by means of a long-term marine shipping agreement with CSL Americas. A pproximately 16% of our total aggregates shipments are delivered by truck to the customer after reaching a sales yard by rail or water. The remaining 2% of aggregates shipments are delivered directly to the customer by rail or water. Limited product substitution: There are limited substitutes for quality aggregates. Recycled concrete and asphalt have certain applications as a lower-cost alternative to virgin aggregates. However, many types of construction projects cannot be served by recycled concrete and require the use of virgin aggregates to meet technical specifications and performance-based criteria for durability, strength and other qualities. Likewise, the amount of recycled asphalt included in asphalt mix as a substitute for aggregates is limited due to specifications. Highly fragmented industry: The U.S. aggregates industry is composed of over 5,000 companies that operated approximately 10,000 facilities during 2023. This fragmented structure provides many opportunities for consolidation. Companies in the industry commonly enter new markets or expand positions in existing markets through the acquisition of existing facilities. Through strategic acquisitions and investments, we have developed an unmatched coast-to-coast footprint of strategically located permitted reserves concentrated in and serving the nation s key growth centers. We have over 26,000 customers in 23 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Washington D.C., British Columbia (Canada), Freeport (Bahamas), Puerto Cort s (Honduras) and Quintana Roo (Mexico). Flexible production capabilities: The production of aggregates is a mechanical process in which stone is crushed and, through a series of screens, separated into various sizes depending on how it will be used. Direct production costs of aggregates primarily include: a) wages and fringe benefits; b) depreciation, depletion, accretion and amortization of capital (or long-term) assets; c) operating parts and supplies; d) repair and maintenance; e) third-party contracted services and f) energy (primarily electricity and diesel). Production capacity is flexible by adjusting operating hours to meet changing market demand. We are currently operating considerably below full capacity, making us extremely well positioned to further benefit from economies of scale when additional growth materializes. raw material inputs largely ControlLED: Unlike typical industrial manufacturing industries, the aggregates industry does not require the input of raw material beyond owned or leased aggregates reserves. Stone, sand and gravel are naturally occurring resources. However, production does require the use of explosives, hydrocarbon fuels and electric power. Demand cycles: Long-term growth in demand for aggregates is largely driven by growth in population, jobs and households. While short-term and medium-term demand for aggregates fluctuates with economic cycles, declines have historically been followed by strong recoveries. The drivers underpinning long-term demand and sustained pricing growth remain firmly in place in both the public and private sectors of the economy. They include: population growth; gains in total employment and in household income; a continuing increase in household formations; the growing need for additional housing stock; a multi-year federal transportation law in place and continuing increases in transportation funding at state and local levels; stable state tax receipts; and a multi-year federal infrastructure investment law and continued political awareness and focus on the need to invest in infrastructure. Part I 10 AGGREGATES MARKETS We focus on the U.S. markets with above-average long-term expected population growth and where construction is expected to expand. We produce and sell aggregates (crushed stone, sand and gravel, sand, and other aggregates) and related products and services in 23 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Washington D.C., Freeport (Bahamas), British Columbia (Canada), Puerto Cort s (Honduras) and Quintana Roo (Mexico) see the NAFTA Arbitration section in Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We also ship railroad ballast to 12 additional states. We serve both the public and the private sectors. Public sector construction activity has historically been more stable and less cyclical than private sector construction, and it generally requires more aggregates per dollar of construction spending. Private sector construction (primarily residential and nonresidential buildings) typically is more affected by general economic cycles than public sector projects (particularly highways, roads and bridges), which tend to receive more consistent levels of funding throughout economic cycles. PUBLIC SECTOR CONSTRUCTION MARKET Public sector construction includes spending by federal, stat e and local governments for highways, bridges, buildings, airports, schools, prisons, sewer and waste disposal systems, water supply systems, dams, reservoirs and other public construction projects. Construction for power plants and other utilities is funded from both public and private sources. In 2023, publicly funded construction accounted for approximately 40% of our total aggregates shipments, and approximately 20% of our aggregates sales by volume were used in highway construction projects. Public Sector Funding: Generally, public sector construction spending is more stable than private sector construction spending; public sector spending is less sensitive to interest rates and has historically been supported by multi-year laws, which provide certainty in funding amounts, program structures, rules and regulations. Federal spending is governed by authorization, budget and appropriations laws. The level of state and local spending on infrastructure varies across the United States and depends on individual state needs and economies. STATE AND LOCAL TRANSPORTATION FUNDING: Since 2013, 33 states and the District of Columbia have increased or adjusted taxes on motor fuel to increase revenues available for transportation investment, including 14 Vulcan-served states and the District of Columbia. Several states in our footprint have variable-rate fuel taxes linked to measures of inflation, gas prices, population or motor vehicle fuel efficiency standards, including Alabama, California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia and the District of Columbia. In addition, we benefit from state and local transportation funding ballot measures. In 2023, voters in 15 states approved 88% of nearly 250 measures which will generate nearly $7 billion in one-time and recurring revenues for transportation investment. This approval rate was in line with the historical average; voters have approved an average of 85% of nearly 3,000 transportation investment ballot measures since 2014. Major transportation funding measures in Vulcan-served areas approved in 2023 are estimated to result in approximately $5.7 billion in revenues and bond proceeds primarily dedicated to roads, streets and bridges. Part I 11 federal highway funding : In November 2021, President Biden signed a historic, bi-partisan infrastructure bill, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA), into law. The IIJA provides the largest increase in federal highway, road and bridge funding in more than six decades with a five-year reauthorization of Federal-Aid Highway Program funding. The total Federal-Aid Highway Program obligation limitation under IIJA starts at $66.9 billion in Fiscal Funding Year (FFY) 2022 and increases to $72.1 billion in FFY 2026, for a cumulative total of nearly $350 billion. These numbers include one-time additional funding for large road and bridge projects, such as $40 billion for bridge repair, replacement and rehabilitation. Of the bridge funds, approximately $16.2 billion is earmarked for projects in Vulcan-served states. Through September 30, 2023, states have committed highway and bridge formula funds to support over 31,000 new projects. This