Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Consolidated Balance Sheets 55 Consolidated Statements of Operations 56 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 57 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity 58 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 59 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 46 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B. Other Information 50 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 50 Item 11. Executive Compensation 50 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 50 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 50 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 50 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 51 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 51 EXHIBIT INDEX 100 SIGNATURES 103 Exhibit 21.1 Exhibit 23.1 Exhibit 31.1 Exhibit 31.2 Exhibit 32.1 2 Table of Contents Unless the context otherwise indicates or requires, as used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to we, us, our or the Company refer to Verisk Analytics, Inc. and its subsidiaries. In this annual report on Form 10-K, all dollar amounts are expressed in millions, unless indicated otherwise. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Verisk Analytics, Inc. ("Verisk") has made statements under the captions Business, Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in other sections of this annual report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as may, might, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue, the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth strategies, and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance, or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including those factors discussed under the caption entitled Risk Factors. You should specifically consider the numerous risks outlined under Risk Factors. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance, or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Verisk is a leading data, analytics, and technology provider serving clients in the insurance ecosystem. We completed the sale of our Energy business on February 1, 2023. We also divested our specialized markets and financial services businesses in March 2022 and April 2022, respectively. Using advanced technologies to collect and analyze billions of records, we draw on unique data assets, insurance industry knowledge, and technological expertise to provide valuable solutions that are integrated into client workflows. We offer predictive analytics and decision support solutions to clients in rating, underwriting, claims, catastrophe, weather risk, and many other fields. In the United States ( U.S. ) and around the world, we help clients protect individuals, communities, and businesses. Our clients use our solutions to make better decisions about risk and improve operating efficiency. We refer to these products and services as solutions due to the integration among our services and the flexibility that enables our clients to purchase components or a comprehensive package. These solutions take various forms, including proprietary data assets, expert industry insight, statistical models, tailored analytic objects, and robust software platforms all designed to allow our clients to make more informed risk decisions. We believe our solutions for analyzing risk have a positive impact on our clients revenues and help them better manage their costs. In 2023, our clients included all of the top 100 property and casualty ("P C") insurance providers in the U.S. for the lines of P C services we offer. We believe that our commitment to our clients and the embedded nature of our solutions serve to strengthen and extend our relationships. We believe that Verisk is uniquely positioned with a series of competitive advantages including: Proprietary Data Assets Data is at the core of what we do. We use our proprietary and contributory data assets to develop predictive analytics and transformative models for our clients; Deep Insurance Industry Expertise and Focus We have specialized and in-depth knowledge in insurance and risk management that drives our engagement with our clients; Long-standing Industry Relationships Our early beginnings as an insurance rating bureau have established us as a trusted partner for the industry as well as a source of insights for our clients; and Scale to Drive Broad Distribution of Innovation Our scale advantage enables us to innovate on behalf of the insurance industry and deliver solutions that strive to solve our clients biggest challenges. Our Business Strategy Our vision is to be the leading strategic data, analytics, and technology partner to the global insurance industry by delivering value to our clients through knowledge, expertise, and scale. Our business aims to build upon our competitive advantages and capitalizing on our scale and position within the industry. Our business strategy is driven by the following priorities: Drive Consistent Predictable Growth. With our clear focus on insurance, integrated organization and our client-centric and results-oriented culture, we strive to deliver consistent and predictable growth. We are leveraging our strong client relationships to extend our reach within insurance. We are modernizing and advancing the capabilities of our core solutions using cloud technology and advanced analytical methods including machine learning and artificial intelligence ("AI") while also augmenting our solutions through the addition of new data assets and sources. In addition, we are working on building leadership positions in adjacent markets including life insurance, marketing, specialty business solutions, and resilience and sustainability. With the client at the center of all we do, we are driving innovation across our portfolio and partnering with our clients to help solve the insurance industries greatest challenges with a focus on rapidly changing technology, growing regulatory focus, and value creation; Drive Operating Efficiency and Profitability. Our subscription business model as well as our ability to build solutions that serve the insurance industry at large helps drive core operating leverage. In addition, we strive to deliver productivity enhancements and operating efficiency through the use of advanced technology and a global talent workforce. We seek to balance this with high return on capital investment into the business to continue to drive growth and profitability; and Ensure Disciplined Capital Allocation. We are focused on generating strong cash flow and ensuring that we are disciplined in how we allocate that capital with a focus on directing capital to the highest return investments. First, we prioritize organic reinvestment in the business, which can produce high internal returns. Second, we look for selective, strategic acquisitions that can expand our data assets, augment our capabilities, and expand our reach within the insurance industry while also creating value by leveraging our capabilities and resources. Finally, we expect to return excess capital to shareholders while also maintaining a strong balance sheet. 4 Table of Contents Our History We trace our history to 1971, when Insurance Services Office, Inc. ("ISO") started operations as a not-for-profit advisory and rating organization providing services to the U.S. P C insurance industry. ISO was formed as an association of insurance companies to gather statistical data and other information from insurers and report to regulators, as required by law. ISO s original functions also included developing programs to help insurers define and manage insurance solutions and providing information to help insurers determine their own independent premium rates. Insurers used and continue to use our offerings primarily in their product development, underwriting, and rating functions. On May 23, 2008, in contemplation of our initial public offering ("IPO"), ISO formed Verisk Analytics, Inc. ("Verisk"), a Delaware corporation, to be the holding company for our business. Verisk was initially formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of ISO. On October 6, 2009, in connection with our IPO, we effected a reorganization whereby ISO became a wholly owned subsidiary of Verisk. Verisk common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 7, 2009, under the ticker symbol VRSK. Segments Our operating segments have historically been Insurance, Energy and Specialized Markets, and Financial Services. On March 11, 2022 and April 8, 2022, we sold 3E Company Environmental, Ecological and Engineering ("3E"), our environmental health and safety business, which represented the specialized markets in our Energy and Specialized Markets segment, and our Financial Services segment, respectively. We assessed the sale of 3E and Financial Services segment per the guidance in ASC 205-20, Discontinued Operations ("ASC 205-20"), and determined that the transactions did not qualify as a discontinued operation because they did not, quantitatively or qualitatively, represent a strategic shift that has or will have a major effect on our operations and financial results. On October 28, 2022, we also entered into an equity purchase agreement to sell Wood Mackenzie, Inc. and Verisk New UK Holdco LP (together with their respective subsidiaries, our Energy business ). The transaction closed on February 1, 2023. The Energy business qualified as held for sale in the fourth quarter of 2022 and was classified as a discontinued operation per the guidance in ASC 205-20, as we determined that this transaction represents a strategic shift that has or will have a major effect on our operations and financial results. Accordingly, all results of the Energy business have been removed from continuing operations and presented as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations and assets and liabilities held for sale for all periods presented. Results of our Energy business are reported as a discontinued operation for the year ended December 31, 2022 and for all prior periods presented. See Note 11 . Dispositions and Discontinued Operation for further discussion. Insurance Segment We now operate in one segment, Insurance, which primarily serves our P C insurance customers across most personal and commercial lines of business, focusing on the fundamental building blocks of insurance programs, the prediction of loss, the selection and pricing of risk, and compliance with their reporting requirements in each U.S. state in which they operate. We also develop and utilize machine-learned and artificially intelligent models to forecast scenarios and produce both standard and customized analytics that help our customers better manage their businesses, including detecting fraud before and after a loss event and quantifying losses. Our customers, acquired over more than 50 years, include most of the P C insurance providers in the U.S. In recent years, we have expanded our offerings to serve certain non-U.S. markets and into the fields of life insurance and annuities, as well as insurance marketing. We offer our solutions and services primarily through annual subscriptions or long-term agreements, which are typically prepaid and represented approximately 80% of our revenues in 2023. We believe we are well positioned to increase our penetration of the global insurance industry because of our proprietary data assets, long-standing industry relationships, deep insurance industry expertise, and our scale to drive broad distribution of our new innovations. Underwriting Powered by proprietary and contributory data and advanced analytics and technologies, we offer a full suite of solutions to support our P C clients across the insurance policy lifecycle. This support spans their product development, marketing, new and renewal underwriting, risk selection and segmentation, pricing, and straight through to policy binding and issuance. We continued to grow our presence internationally and expand our capabilities into new markets, such as life insurance and annuities, and into new workflows, such as marketing and customer acquisition. Forms, Rules, and Loss Costs We are the recognized leader in the U.S. for industry-standard insurance programs that help P C insurers define coverages and issue policies. We provide policy language, prospective loss costs, policy writing and rating rules, and a variety of underwriting solutions for risk selection and segmentation, pricing, and workflow optimization across 31 lines of insurance. Our policy language, prospective loss cost information, and policy writing rules can serve as integrated, turnkey insurance programs for our clients. Insurance companies need to ensure that their policy language, rules, and rates comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. They must also make sure their policies remain competitive by promptly changing coverages in response to changes in statutes, case law, or regulatory requirements. To meet our clients needs, we process approximately 2,000 regulatory filings and interface with state regulators in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands each year to ensure smooth implementation of our rules and forms. When insurers choose to develop their own alternative programs, our industry-standard insurance programs also help regulators ensure that such insurers policies meet basic coverage requirements. Standardized coverage language, which has been tested in litigation and tailored to reflect judicial interpretation, helps ensure consistent treatment of claimants. As a result, our industry-standard language also simplifies claim settlements and can reduce the occurrence of costly litigation because our language causes the meaning of coverage terminology to become established and known. Our policy language includes standard coverage language, endorsements, and policy writing support language that assist our clients in understanding the risks they assume and the coverages they offer. With these policy programs, insurers also benefit from economies of scale. We have more than 240 insurance experts and specialized lawyers reviewing changes in each state s insurance rules and regulations, including an average of approximately 14,800 legislative actions, 12,500 regulatory actions, and 2,000 court decisions per year, to make any required changes to our policy language and rating information. To cover the wide variety of risks in the marketplace, we offer a broad range of policy programs. For example, in the homeowners line of insurance, we maintain policy language and rules for approximately seven basic coverages, 385 national endorsements, and 685 state-specific endorsements. 5 Table of Contents The P C insurance industry is heavily regulated in the U.S.; P C insurers are required to collect statistical data about their premiums and losses and to report that data to regulators in every state in which they operate. Our statistical agent services have enabled P C insurers to meet those regulatory requirements for more than 50 years. We aggregate the data, and as a licensed or appointed statistical agent in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, we report those statistics to insurance regulators. We are able to capture significant economies of scale given the level of penetration of this service within the U.S. P C insurance industry. To provide our clients and the regulators with the information they require, we maintain one of the largest private databases in the world. Over the past five decades, we have developed core expertise in acquiring, processing, managing, protecting, and operating large and comprehensive databases that are the foundation of our insurance offerings. We use our proprietary technology to assemble, organize, and update vast amounts of detailed information submitted by our clients. We supplement this data with publicly available information. In 2023, P C insurers sent us approximately 2.8 billion detailed individual records of insurance transactions, such as insurance premiums collected or losses incurred. We maintain an underwriting database of more than 34.5 billion statistical records, including approximately 9.2 billion commercial lines records and approximately 25 billion personal lines records. We collect unit transaction detail of each premium and loss record, which enhances the validity, reliability, and accuracy of our data sets and our actuarial analyses. Across all of our insurance lines, our proprietary quality process includes more than 2,900 separate checks to ensure that the data meets our high standards. Using our large database of premium and loss data, we provide actuarial services to help our clients analyze and price their risks. Our actuaries are able to perform sophisticated analyses using our predictive models and analytic methods to help our P C insurance clients with pricing, loss reserving, and market analysis. We distribute a number of actuarial solutions and offer flexible services to meet our clients needs. In addition, our actuarial consultants provide customized services for our clients that include assisting them with the development of independent insurance programs, analysis of their own underwriting experience, development of classification systems and rating plans, and a wide variety of other business decisions. We also supply information to various clients in other markets, including reinsurance and government agencies. We project clients' future losses and loss expenses using a broad set of data. Those projections tend to be more reliable than if our clients used their own data exclusively. We make a number of actuarial adjustments before the data is used to estimate future costs. Our clients can use our estimates of future costs in making independent decisions about the prices charged for their policies. For most P C insurers in most lines of business, we believe that our estimates of future costs are an essential input to rating decisions. Our actuarial solutions and services are also used to create the analytics underlying our industry-standard insurance programs described above. In response to the challenges faced by our clients to reduce operating complexity and improve their speed to market, we are undertaking an extensive modernization of our core lines product. This reimagine of our forms, rules, loss costs and related solutions is designed to deliver increased value to our customers. The Reimagine program will include significant enhancements to our existing solutions; new digital workflow tools, insights, and analytics; and an enhanced content delivery platform. Underwriting Data and Analytics Solutions We gather information on individual properties, vehicles and communities providing the breadth and depth of data and analytics needed to support our clients as they evaluate, segment, and price personal and commercial insurance, as well as commercial liability insurance, throughout the policy lifecycle. Our property- and auto- specific rating and underwriting information allows our clients to understand, quantify, underwrite, mitigate, and avoid potential loss for these risks. Our database contains data and analytics on approximately 15.9 million commercial properties in the U.S. We have a staff of approximately 500 field representatives strategically located around the U.S. who observe and report on conditions at commercial and residential properties, evaluate community fire-protection capabilities, and assess the effectiveness of municipal building-code enforcement. Each year, our field staff visits more than 300,000 commercial properties to collect information on new buildings, verify building attributes, and provide specific loss costs. Our auto solutions are powered by a mix of third-party and proprietary data ranging from 2 billion traffic court records to 500 billion miles of connected car telematics data and we have characteristics on more than 270 million insured drivers and 280 million registered vehicles with access to expansive industry databases on loss costs and claims. We are a leading provider of innovative solutions for the personal underwriting markets, including homeowners and auto lines. Drawing on an array of resources from proprietary and third-party data to geospatial imagery, we build and maintain widely used industry-standard tools that assist insurers in underwriting and rating that is, measuring and selecting risks and pricing coverage appropriately to help ensure fairness to the consumer and a reasonable return for the insurer. Our solutions apply advanced predictive analytics to our deep reservoir of data and information to gauge the degree and cost of risk quickly and precisely, and our workflow tools help insurers increase speed and cost-efficiency while enhancing customer experiences. These solutions span a range of applications from using precise home reconstruction costs to help policyholders have the right amount of coverage, to providing auto insurers with the data that supports offering consumers a bindable quote in minutes through modern API s. We also provide proprietary analytic measures of the ability of individual communities to mitigate losses from important perils. Nearly every property insurer in the U.S. uses our evaluations of community firefighting capabilities to help determine premiums for fire insurance throughout the country. We provide field-verified and validated data on fire protection services for approximately 36,000 fire response jurisdictions. We also offer services to evaluate the effectiveness of community enforcement of building codes and the efforts of communities to mitigate damage from flooding. Further, we provide information on the insurance rating territories, premium taxes, crime risk, and hazards of windstorm, earthquake, wildfire, and other perils. To supplement our data on specific commercial properties and individual communities, we have assembled, from a variety of internal and third-party sources, information on hazards related to geographic locations representing every postal address in the U.S. Insurers use this information not only for policy quoting but also for analyzing risk concentration in geographical areas. We also make our data and analytics available to commercial real estate lenders to allow them to better understand risks associated with people to whom they lend. 6 Table of Contents Extreme Event Solutions We are a leader in and pioneered the field of probabilistic catastrophe modeling used by insurers, reinsurers, intermediaries, financial institutions, and governments to manage their risk from extreme events. Our models, which form the basis of our solutions, enable companies to identify, quantify, and plan for the financial consequences of catastrophes. We have developed models for hurricanes, earthquakes, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, and floods in more than 120 countries, as well as for pandemics worldwide. We have developed a probabilistic terrorism model capable of quantifying the risk in the U.S. from this evolving threat, which supports pricing and underwriting decisions down to the level of an individual policy, as well as models for estimating losses to crop insurance programs in the U.S., Canada, India, and China. Our newest models offer risk quantification solutions for the casualty line of business. We also help businesses and governments better anticipate and monitor risks in Earth s natural environment. We prepare certain agencies and companies to anticipate, manage, react to, and profit from climate- and weather-related risk. We serve our customers by providing advanced research, development, and analysis delivered in reports, data streams, and software solutions. We are dedicated to the advancement of the atmospheric and remote sensing science disciplines and directly addressing problems regarding weather, climate, and air quality as well as oceanography and the planetary sciences. Through research conducted by our in-house scientific staff, and often in collaboration with prominent scientists at academic and other research institutions, we have developed analytical tools to help measure and observe environmental properties and translate those measurements into actionable information. Finally, we offer global risk intelligence providing insight into sustainability, resilience, and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, underpinned by geospatial data and analytics. We provide intelligence on sustainability, resilience, human rights, sovereign and political risk, and ESG stitching together these disparate issues into an interconnected global view built upon objective insight and data. Life Insurance Solutions In recent years we have expanded our offerings to also serve the life insurance and annuities markets through our 2019 acquisition of FAST. Life Insurance Solutions enable new approaches across the policy life cycle through no-code technology, data analytics, and modeling. We have developed a suite of solutions that apply advanced analytics, automation, and machine learning to existing and emerging data sources. Our solutions are designed to help transform current workflows in life insurance underwriting, claim insights, policy administration, unclaimed property/equity, compliance and fraud detection, and actuarial and portfolio modeling. Our industry-leading FAST platform can reduce time to market, enables faster policy conversion, and can reduce information technology costs for our customers, uniquely positioning us to help support the modernization of the life insurance industry. Specialty Business Solutions We are a leading software supplier to the global specialty insurance market with particular focus on the London specialty market where we have a long-standing client base. Our powerful software suite, coupled with our vast datasets, experience, and technology allows our clients to grow and better manage their business with greater efficiency, flexibility, and data governance. Our solutions serve insurers, (re)insurers, brokers, cover holders, and managing general agents (MGAs) in London and across the globe. We help drive the success of many of the fastest growing insurance and reinsurance specialists by providing full end-to-end management of insurance and reinsurance business. Our suite of software solutions covers a broad range of insurance processes from policy negotiation and placement, pricing and policy administration through to claims and outwards reinsurance. Many of our solutions can be integrated with one another and with capabilities across the organization to meet evolving client needs and offer a compelling digital ecosystem for the London and global insurance market. To that end, our global marketplace solution offers seamless real-time quote-to-bind electronic placing and distribution for the specialty insurance market. Marketing Solutions Through recent acquisitions, we extended our data and workflow capabilities to help the global insurance industry drive improvement in customer acquisition, growth, and retention. Marketing and advertising spend for insurers goes well beyond $10 billion and has continued to increase year over year. We possess unique and proven data sets that help the insurance industry more precisely segment, target, and optimize advertising and marketing spend. Solutions include compliant, real-time decisioning, profitability, and risk assessment (pre-quote and pre-underwriting) for inbound consumer interactions. We also power ongoing enrichment of prospective and current customer insights for the highest probability of retention and increased share of wallet (policy bundling) as well as full coverage of US households and consumers to drive prospect marketing and advertising strategies. Verisk Marketing Solutions brings a unique insurance-focused, specialized offering that covers insurance carriers holistic marketing data needs. International Underwriting Solutions 