Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Consolidated Balance Sheets 55 Consolidated Statements of Operations 56 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 57 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity 58 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 59 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B. Other Information 49 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 50 Item 11. Executive Compensation 50 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 50 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 50 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 50 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 51 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 51 SIGNATURES 104 EXHIBIT INDEX 105 Exhibit 4.8 Exhibit 23.1 Exhibit 31.1 Exhibit 31.2 Exhibit 32.1 2 Table of Contents Unless the context otherwise indicates or requires, as used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to we, us, our or the Company refer to Verisk Analytics, Inc. and its subsidiaries. In this annual report on Form 10-K, all dollar amounts are expressed in millions, unless indicated otherwise. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Verisk Analytics, Inc., or Verisk, has made statements under the captions Business, Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in other sections of this annual report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as may, might, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue, the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including those factors discussed under the caption entitled Risk Factors. You should specifically consider the numerous risks outlined under Risk Factors. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Verisk is a leading data analytics provider serving customers in insurance, energy and specialized markets, and financial services. Using advanced technologies to collect and analyze billions of records, we draw on unique data assets and deep domain expertise to provide innovations that may be integrated into customer workflows. We offer predictive analytics and decision support solutions to customers in rating, underwriting, claims, catastrophe and weather risk, natural resources intelligence, economic forecasting, commercial banking and finance, and many other fields. In the United States, or U.S., and around the world, we help customers protect people, property, and financial assets. Our customers use our solutions to make better decisions about risk and opportunities with greater efficiency and discipline. We refer to these products and services as solutions due to the integration among our services and the flexibility that enables our customers to purchase components or a comprehensive package. These solutions take various forms, including data, expert insight, statistical models, and tailored analytics, all designed to allow our customers to make more logical decisions. We believe our solutions for analyzing risk have a positive impact on our customers revenues and help them better manage their costs. In 2019 , our customers included all of the top 100 property and casualty, or P C, insurance providers in the U.S. for the lines of P C services we offer and all of the top 30 credit card issuers in North America, the United Kingdom, and Australia as well as nine of the top ten global energy producers around the world. We also work with a wide range of companies, governments, and institutions across the energy and metals and mining value chains. We believe that our commitment to our customers and the embedded nature of our solutions serve to strengthen and extend our relationships. We believe that Verisk is uniquely positioned because of the set of Distinctives or competitive advantages we cultivate and continue to expand, as indicated below. Our existing businesses, in addition to new product innovations, integrate the following four singular qualities into the foundation of our strategy. Our Distinctives Unique Data Assets - Data is at the core of what we do. We use our proprietary data assets to develop predictive analytics and transformative models for our customers. Deep Domain Expertise - We have specialized and in-depth knowledge in a number of defined vertical markets, including insurance, energy, financial services, and risk management. We understand that different verticals require different approaches, and our deep domain expertise adds value to our analytics in the markets we serve. Steady Stream of First-to-Market Innovations - We move quickly to be the first to market with new solutions. Typically, the marketplace assumes that those who are first to market are superior to the competition and better positioned to succeed. Deep Integration into Customer Workflows - By embedding our solutions into customer workflows, we help our customers better manage risk and optimize their bottom line. We achieve this goal by remaining closely connected to our customers at all times and serving their distinct needs. We offer our solutions and services primarily through annual subscriptions or long-term agreements, which are typically prepaid and represented over 81% of our revenues in 2019 . For the year ended December 31, 2019 , we had revenues of $2,607.1 million and net income of $449.9 million . For the five-year period ended December 31, 2019 , our consolidated revenues grew at a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 10.3% and our net income declined at 3.0%. The decrease in our net income was primarily attributable to the recognition of our litigation reserve of $125.0 million , higher acquisition related costs (earn-outs) and a higher effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Our History We trace our history to 1971, when Insurance Services Office, Inc., or ISO, started operations as a not-for-profit advisory and rating organization providing services to the U.S. P C insurance industry. ISO was formed as an association of insurance companies to gather statistical data and other information from insurers and report to regulators, as required by law. ISO s original functions also included developing programs to help insurers define and manage insurance products and providing information to help insurers determine their own independent premium rates. Insurers used and continue to use our offerings primarily in their product development, underwriting, and rating functions. 4 Table of Contents On May 23, 2008, in contemplation of our initial public offering, or IPO, ISO formed Verisk Analytics, Inc., or Verisk, a Delaware corporation, to be the holding company for our business. Verisk was initially formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of ISO. On October 6, 2009, in connection with our IPO, the Company effected a reorganization whereby ISO became a wholly owned subsidiary of Verisk. Verisk common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 7, 2009, under the ticker symbol VRSK. Over the past two decades, we have transformed our business beyond its original functions by deepening and broadening our data assets, developing a set of integrated risk management solutions and services, and addressing new markets. Our expansion into analytics began when we acquired the American Insurance Services Group, or AISG, and certain operations and assets of the National Insurance Crime Bureau in 1997 and 1998, respectively. Those organizations brought to the company large databases of insurance claims as well as expertise in detecting and preventing claims fraud. To further expand our business, in 2002, we acquired AIR Worldwide, or AIR, the technological leader in catastrophe modeling. In 2006, to bolster our position in the insurance claims field, we acquired Xactware Solutions Inc., a leading supplier of estimation software for professionals involved in building repair and reconstruction. In 2012, we acquired Argus Information Advisory Services, LLC, or Argus, to expand our global presence providing information, competitive benchmarking, analytics, and customized services to financial institutions in the payments space. In 2015, we acquired Wood Mackenzie Limited, or Wood Mackenzie, to advance our strategy to expand internationally and position us in the global energy market. In 2017, we acquired G2 Web Services, LLC, or G2; Sequel Business Solutions Ltd., or Sequel; Lundquist Consulting, Inc., or LCI; and PowerAdvocate, Inc., or PowerAdvocate, to further strengthen our position in their respective segments. G2 provides merchant risk intelligence solutions for acquirers, commercial banks, and other payment system providers. Sequel is a leading insurance and reinsurance software specialist based in London. LCI offers risk insight, prediction, and management solutions for banks and creditors. PowerAdvocate is a leading data analytics provider with a one-of-a-kind spend and cost data curated from millions of transactions across thousands of services, materials, and equipment categories in the energy industry. In 2018, we acquired Rulebook Limited, or Rulebook, to further our international insurance presence in the overseas market. In 2019, we acquired Genscape, Inc., or Genscape, and Flexible Architecture and Simplified Technology, LLC, or FAST, to enhance our solutions within the Energy and Specialized Markets segment and Insurance segment, respectively. Those acquisitions have added scale, geographic reach, highly skilled workforces, and a wide array of new capabilities to support our customers. They have helped make us a leading provider of information and decision analytics for customers involved in the business of risk in the U.S. and selectively around the world. Segments We organize our business in three segments: Insurance, Energy and Specialized Markets, and Financial Services. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this annual report for additional information regarding our segments. See Note 19. of our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further information. Insurance Segment Our Insurance segment primarily serves our P C insurance customers and focuses on the prediction of loss, the selection and pricing of risk, and compliance with their reporting requirements in each U.S. state in which they operate. We also develop predictive models to forecast scenarios and produce both standard and customized analytics that help our customers better manage their businesses, including detecting fraud before and after a loss event and quantifying losses. Our customers include most of the P C insurance providers in the U.S. In recent years, we have expanded our offerings also to serve certain non-U.S. markets. Underwriting rating We are the recognized leader in the U.S. for industry-standard insurance programs that help P C insurers define coverages and issue policies. We provide policy language, prospective loss costs, policy writing rules, and a variety of other solutions for 30 lines of insurance. Our policy language, prospective loss cost information and policy writing rules can serve as integrated turnkey insurance programs for our customers. Insurance companies need to ensure that their policy language, rules, and rates comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. They must also make sure their policies remain competitive by promptly changing coverages in response to changes in statutes or case law. To meet their insurers' needs, we process approximately 2,400 regulatory filings and interface with state regulators in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands each year to ensure smooth implementation of our rules and forms. When insurers choose to develop their own alternative programs, our industry-standard insurance programs also help regulators ensure that such insurers policies meet basic coverage requirements. 5 Table of Contents Standardized coverage language, which has been tested in litigation and tailored to reflect judicial interpretation, helps ensure consistent treatment of claimants. As a result, our industry-standard language also simplifies claim settlements and can reduce the occurrence of costly litigation, because our language causes the meaning of coverage terminology to become established and known. Our policy language includes standard coverage language, endorsements, and policy writing support language that assist our customers in understanding the risks they assume and the coverages they offer. With these policy programs, insurers also benefit from economies of scale. We have more than 120 specialized lawyers and insurance experts reviewing changes in each state s insurance rules and regulations, including an average of approximately 15,000 legislative bills, 11,000 regulatory actions, and 2,000 court decisions per year, to make any required changes to our policy language and rating information. To cover the wide variety of risks in the marketplace, we offer a broad range of policy programs. For example, in the homeowners line of insurance, we maintain policy language and rules for 6 basic coverages, 282 national endorsements, and 612 state-specific endorsements. The P C insurance industry is heavily regulated in the U.S.: P C insurers are required to collect statistical data about their premiums and losses and to report that data to regulators in every state in which they operate. Our statistical agent services have enabled P C insurers to meet those regulatory requirements for more than 45 years. We aggregate the data, and as a licensed or appointed statistical agent in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, we report those statistics to insurance regulators. We are able to capture significant economies of scale given the level of penetration of this service within the U.S. P C insurance industry. To provide our customers and the regulators the information they require, we maintain one of the largest private databases in the world. Over the past four decades, we have developed core expertise in acquiring, processing, managing, and operating large and comprehensive databases that are the foundation of our insurance offerings. We use our proprietary technology to assemble, organize, and update vast amounts of detailed information submitted by our customers. We supplement this data with publicly available information. Each year, P C insurers send us approximately 4.4 billion detailed individual records of insurance transactions, such as insurance premiums collected or losses incurred. We maintain a database of more than 22.5 billion statistical records, including approximately 9.5 billion commercial lines records and approximately 13.0 billion personal lines records. We collect unit transaction detail of each premium and loss record, which enhances the validity, reliability, and accuracy of our data sets and our actuarial analyses. Our proprietary quality process includes more than 2,900 separate checks to ensure that the data meets our high standards of quality. We provide actuarial services to help our customers analyze and price their risks. Using our large database of premium and loss data, our actuaries are able to perform sophisticated analyses using our predictive models and analytic methods to help our P C insurance customers with pricing, loss reserving, and marketing. We distribute a number of actuarial solutions and offer flexible services to meet our customers needs. In addition, our actuarial consultants provide customized services for our customers that include assisting them with the development of independent insurance programs, analysis of their own underwriting experience, development of classification systems and rating plans, and a wide variety of other business decisions. We also supply information to various customers in other markets, including reinsurance and government agencies. We project customers' future losses and loss expenses using a broad set of data. Those projections tend to be more reliable than if our customers used their own data exclusively. We make a number of actuarial adjustments before the data is used to estimate future costs. Our customers can use our estimates of future costs in making independent decisions about the prices charged for their policies. For most P C insurers in most lines of business, we believe that our estimates of future costs are an essential input to rating decisions. Our actuarial products and services are also used to create the analytics underlying our industry-standard insurance programs described above. We gather information on individual properties and communities so that insurers can use our information to evaluate and price personal and commercial property insurance, as well as commercial liability insurance. Our property-specific rating and underwriting information allows our customers to understand, quantify, underwrite, mitigate, and avoid potential loss for commercial properties. Our database contains loss costs and other relevant information on more than 3.8 million commercial risks in the U.S. and also holds information on more than 6.9 million individual businesses within those risks. We have a staff of approximately 540 field representatives strategically located around the U.S. who observe and report on conditions at commercial and residential properties, evaluate community fire-protection capabilities and assess the effectiveness of municipal building-code enforcement. Each year, our field staff visits more than 292,000 commercial properties to collect information on new buildings and verify building attributes. 6 Table of Contents We are a leading provider of solutions for the personal underwriting markets, including homeowners and auto lines. We build and maintain widely used industry-standard tools that assist insurers in underwriting and rating, that is, measuring and selecting risks and pricing coverage appropriately to ensure fairness to the consumer and a reasonable return for the insurer. Our solutions apply advanced predictive analytics to our deep reservoir of data and information to gauge the degree and cost of risk quickly and precisely. Our solutions span a wide range of P C insurance, encompassing personal and commercial lines of coverage that protect private residences, private and commercial vehicles, and businesses. We also provide proprietary analytic measures of the ability of individual communities to mitigate losses from important perils. Nearly every property insurer in the U.S. uses our evaluations of community firefighting capabilities to help determine premiums for fire insurance throughout the country. We provide field-verified and validated data on the fire protection services for approximately 40,000 fire response jurisdictions. We also offer services to evaluate the effectiveness of community enforcement of building codes and the efforts of communities to mitigate damage from flooding. Further, we provide information on the insurance rating territories, premium taxes, crime risk, and hazards of windstorm, earthquake, wildfire, and other perils. To supplement our data on specific commercial properties and individual communities, we have assembled, from a variety of internal and third-party sources, information on hazards related to geographic locations representing every postal address in the U.S. Insurers use this information not only for policy quoting but also for analyzing risk concentration in geographical areas. We also make our data and analytics available to commercial real estate lenders to allow them to better understand risks associated with people they lend against. We are a leader in and pioneered the field of probabilistic catastrophe modeling used by insurers, reinsurers, financial institutions, and government to manage their risk from extreme events. Our models, which form the basis of our solutions, enable companies to identify, quantify, and plan for the financial consequences of catastrophes. We have developed models for hurricanes, earthquakes, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, and floods in more than 110 countries as well as pandemics worldwide. We have developed a probabilistic terrorism model capable of quantifying the risk in the U.S. from this evolving threat, which supports pricing and underwriting decisions down to the level of an individual policy, as well as models for estimating losses to crop insurance programs in the U.S., Canada and China. Our newest models offer risk management solutions for the cyber and casualty lines of business. We have begun to expand our footprint of data and solutions to include both U.S. and international markets. Claims Our claims insurance solutions provide our customers analytics in the areas of fraud detection, and repair cost estimation, including emerging areas of interest within these categories. We are a leading provider of fraud-detection tools for the P C insurance industry. Our anti fraud solutions improve our customers profitability by both predicting the likelihood that fraud is occurring and detecting suspicious activity after it has occurred. When a claim is submitted, our system searches our database and returns information about other claims filed by the same individuals or businesses (either as claimants or insurers) that helps our customers determine if fraud has occurred. The system searches for matches in identifying informational fields, such as name, address, Social Security number, vehicle identification number, driver s license number, tax identification number, or other parties to the loss. Our system also includes advanced name and address searching to perform intelligent searches and improve the overall quality of the matches. Information from match reports speeds payment of meritorious claims while providing a defense against fraud and can lead to denial of a claim, negotiation of a reduced award, or further investigation by the insurer or law enforcement. We have a comprehensive system used by claims adjusters and investigation professionals to process claims and fight fraud. Claims databases are one of the key tools in the fight against insurance fraud. The benefits of a single all-claims database include improved efficiency in reporting data and searching for information; enhanced capabilities for detecting suspicious claims; and superior information for investigating fraudulent claims, suspicious individuals, and possible fraud rings. Our database contains information for more than 1.4 billion claims and is the world s largest database of P C claims information used for claims and investigations. Insurers and other participants submit more than 253,000 new claims a day on average across all categories of the U.S. P C insurance industry. We also provide data, analytics, and networking products for professionals involved in estimating all phases of building repair and reconstruction. We provide solutions for every phase of a building s life, including: quantifying the ultimate cost of repair or reconstruction of damaged or destroyed buildings, aiding in the settlement of insurance claims; and 7 Table of Contents tracking the process of repair or reconstruction and facilitating communication among insurers, adjusters, contractors, and policyholders. To help our customers estimate repair costs, we provide a solution that assists contractors and insurance adjusters in estimating repairs using a patented plan-sketching program. The program allows our customers to manually sketch floor, roof and wall framing plans based upon their own measurements, and automatically calculates material and labor quantities for all desired construction or repairs to the structure. We also offer our customers access to wholesale and retail price lists, which include structural repair and restoration pricing for 468 separate economic areas in North America. We revise this information monthly, and in the aftermath of a major disaster, we can update the price lists as often as weekly to reflect rapid price changes. Our structural repair and cleaning database contains approximately 21,000 unit-cost line items. For each line item, such as smoke cleaning, water extraction and hazardous cleanup, we report time and material pricing, including labor, labor productivity rates (for new construction and restoration), labor burden and overhead, material costs, and equipment costs. We improve our reported pricing data by several methods, including direct market surveys and an analysis of the actual claims experiences of our customers. We estimate that more than 80% of insurance repair contractors and service providers in the U.S. and Canada with computerized estimating systems use our building and repair pricing data. Use of such a large percentage of the industry s claims data leads to accurate reporting of pricing information, which we believe is unmatched in the industry. We continually pursue new solutions that help our customers keep abreast of changing markets and technology. For example, we provide tools and platforms to help insurers, their customers, and providers of products and services to leverage the growing Internet of Things. This technology connects devices, vehicles, and homes to the Internet and generates valuable data to underwrite, rate, and manage risk while enriching customer relationships. By ingesting, storing, and normalizing this data, Verisk makes it accessible for users to extract business insights at a significantly lower cost and logistical burden than they could achieve on their own. Energy and Specialized Markets Segment We are a leading provider of data analytics across the natural resources value chain including the global energy, chemicals, metals and, mining, and power and renewables sectors. We deliver analysis and advice on assets, companies, governments, and markets based on proprietary near real time data as well as historic information. This enables us to offer a comprehensive and integrated analysis of relevant commodities to our customers. We provide research and consulting services focusing on exploration strategies and screening, asset development and acquisition, commodity markets, and corporate analysis. We offer consultancy in the areas of business environment, business improvement, business strategies, commercial advisory, and transaction support. We differentiate our solutions in the market by continuously gathering and managing proprietary information, insight, and analysis on thousands of oil and gas fields, mines, refineries and other assets, as well as detailed assessments of the market fundamentals across each value chain. Our experts analyze the data and work directly with customers to address their business challenges. We provide market and cost intelligence to energy companies to optimize financial results. We combine information, innovative technology, and expert services to produce market intelligence. We aim to help asset-intensive clients achieve operational and financial excellence, increase profitability, and optimize business performance. In addition, our client service team of technical and various other professionals plays an integral role at a number of energy companies. We have engineers and supply chain professionals who consult on capital projects. Our team members include experts from the energy industry with hands-on operational experience. We help businesses and governments better anticipate and monitor risks in Earth s natural environment. We prepare certain agencies and companies to anticipate, manage, react to, and profit from climate- and weather-related risk. We serve our customers by providing state-of-the-art research, development, and analysis delivered in reports, data streams, and software solutions. We are dedicated to the advancement of the atmospheric and remote sensing science disciplines and directly addressing problems reg