Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. [Reserved] 22 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 55 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 55 Item 9B. Other Information 55 Item 9C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections . 55 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11. Executive Compensation 56 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 56 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 56 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 57 Item 16. 10-K Summary 59 Signatures 60 2 Table of Contents For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K ), the terms Verisign , the Company , we , us , and our refer to VeriSign, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a global provider of domain name registry services and internet infrastructure, enabling internet navigation for many of the world s most recognized domain names. We enable the security, stability, and resiliency of key internet infrastructure and services, including providing root zone maintainer services, operating two of the 13 global internet root servers, and providing registration services and authoritative resolution for the . com and . net top-level domains ( TLDs ), which support the majority of global e-commerce. We were incorporated in Delaware on April 12, 1995. Our principal executive offices are located at 12061 Bluemont Way, Reston, Virginia 20190. Our telephone number at that address is (703) 948-3200. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol VRSN. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and certain other product or service names are registered or unregistered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. Other names used in this Form 10-K may be trademarks of their respective owners. Our primary website is https://www.verisign.com . The information available on, or accessible through, this website is not incorporated in this Form 10-K by reference. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), are available, free of charge, on the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as is reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at https://www.sec.gov . Pursuant to our agreements with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ), we make available files containing all active domain names registered in the . com and . net registries. Further, we also make available a summary of the active zone count registered in the . com and .net registries and the number of .com and .net domain name registrations in the domain name base. The zone counts and information on how to obtain access to the zone files can be found at https://www.verisign.com/zone . The domain name base is the active zone plus the number of domain names that are registered but not configured for use in the respective top-level domain zone file plus the number of domain names that are in a client or server hold status. The domain name base may also reflect compensated or uncompensated judicial or administrative actions to add or remove from the active zone an immaterial number of domain names. These files and the related summary data are updated at least once per day. The update times may vary each day. The number of domain names provided in this Form 10-K are as of midnight of the date reported. We announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website https://investor.verisign.com , SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels and websites listed below. This list may be updated from time to time on our investor relations website. https://facebook.com/Verisign https://twitter.com/Verisign https://linkedIn.com/company/Verisign https://youTube.com/user/Verisign https://verisign.com https://blog.Verisign.com The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file. Services We operate the authoritative directory of and/or the back-end systems for all .com, .net, .cc, .gov, .edu and .name domain names, among others. Our services allow individuals and organizations to establish their online identities, while providing the secure, always-on access they need to communicate and transact reliably with large-scale online audiences. 3 Table of Contents We are the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com, .net, and .name generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), among others, under agreements with ICANN and also, with respect to the .com agreement, the U.S. Department of Commerce ( DOC ). We are also the exclusive registry of domain names within certain transliterations of .com and .net in a number of different native languages and scripts ( IDN gTLDs ). As a registry, we maintain the authoritative directory of all second-level domain names (e.g., example.com and example.net) in these gTLDs and IDN gTLDs. Our global constellation of DNS servers provides internet protocol ( IP ) address information in response to queries, enabling the use of browsers, email systems, and other systems on the internet. In addition, we own and maintain our shared registration system that allows ICANN-accredited registrars to enter new second-level domain names into Verisign operated central directories and to submit modifications, transfers, re-registrations, and deletions for existing second-level domain names ( Shared Registration System ). In addition to our registry agreements with ICANN, we have agreements to operate the registries for the .tv and .cc country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) for Tuvalu and Cocos (Keeling) Islands, respectively, and to operate the technical systems for the .gov and .edu sponsored TLDs. These TLDs are also supported by our global constellation of DNS servers and Shared Registration System. We did not participate in the Tuvalu government s rebid of the contract to operate .tv , and we anticipate transitioning the operation of the .tv registry during 2022. We will continue to operate .tv until the transition. We also provide internationalized domain name ( IDN ) services that enable internet users to access domain names in characters representing their local language. Our gTLDs and ccTLDs can support standards-compliant domain name registrations in over 100 different native languages and scripts. We also perform the root zone maintainer function under an agreement with ICANN for the core of the internet s DNS and operate two of the 13 root zone servers that contain authoritative data for the top of the DNS hierarchy. Domain names can be registered for between one and 10 years. The fees charged for .com , .net and .name may only be increased according to adjustments prescribed in our agreements with ICANN over the applicable term. Revenues for .cc and .tv domain names and our IDN gTLDs are based on a similar fee system and registration system, although the fees charged are not subject to the same pricing restrictions as those for . com , as established in the Cooperative Agreement and the . com Registry Agreement, and for . net and . name , as established in those respective Registry Agreements. The fees received from operating the . gov TLD are based on the terms of Verisign s agreement with the U.S. government. The fees from our performance of the technical operations for other TLDs, are based on the terms of Verisign s agreements with those respective registry operators . Operations Infrastructure Our operations infrastructure consists of secure data centers in Dulles, Virginia; Ashburn, Virginia; New Castle, Delaware; and Fribourg, Switzerland as well as more than 100 other sites around the world. Our domain name servers refer requestors to the associated authoritative name servers for second level domains under our TLDs, thus enabling DNS resolution for every .com and .net domain name on the internet and for domain names under a large number of other TLDs. Our servers process hundreds of billions of queries daily. Our operations infrastructure operates 24 hours a day, supporting the security, integrity and availability of our services. The performance and availability of our infrastructure are critical for our business. Key features of our operations infrastructure include: Distributed Servers: We operate a large number of high-speed servers globally to support localized transaction volume and performance demands. In conjunction with our proprietary software, processes and procedures, this global constellation of servers offers rapid failover, global and local load balancing, and threshold monitoring on critical servers. Networking: We deploy and maintain a redundant and diverse global network, maintain high-speed, redundant connections to numerous internet service providers, and maintain peering relationships globally to ensure that our critical services are readily accessible to end users at all times. Security: We incorporate architectural concepts such as protected domains, restricted nodes, and distributed access control in our system architecture. In addition, we employ firewalls and intrusion detection software, as well as proprietary security mechanisms at many points across our infrastructure. We perform continuous internal vulnerability testing and periodic controls audits, and also contract with third-party security organizations to perform periodic penetration tests and security risk assessments on our systems. We have engineered resiliency and diversity into how we host classes of products throughout our set of interconnected sites to reduce the risk of unknown vendor defects and zero-day security vulnerabilities. This includes different physical security silos, which themselves are separated into bulkheads, and in which servers are located. Corporate networks are in their own physical silo. Thus, the corporate networks to which personnel directly connect are separated from the silos that house production services; administration of production gear from corporate systems must go through internal, fortified intermediaries; and account credentials used within the corporate networks are not used within the production silos. 4 Table of Contents Data Integrity: We employ both phased and systemic integrity validation operations via a number of proprietary mechanisms on all internal DNS publication operations. We continuously expand our infrastructure to meet demands to support normal and peak system load and attack volumes based on what we have experienced historically, as well as to address projected internet attack trends. Call Centers and Service Desk: We provide customer support services over the phone, by email and through web-based self-help systems. Our support teams are staffed with trained technical customer support agents. Support is available for customers 24 hours a day. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our support teams have continued servicing our customers while working remotely. Operations Support and Monitoring: Through our network operations center, we have an extensive monitoring capability that enables us to track the status and performance of our critical systems, network and services. Our network operations center monitors our systems 24 hours a day and has continued to be staffed by employees working remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic. Disaster Recovery Plans: We have disaster recovery and business continuity capabilities that are designed to deal with the loss of entire data centers and other facilities. We maintain data centers with mirrored services that allow failover with no data loss and no loss of function or capacity, as well as a tertiary facility in Switzerland. Our critical data services (including domain name registration and global resolution) use advanced storage systems that provide data protection through techniques such as synchronous mirroring and remote replication. We periodically operate services at an alternate data center during maintenance windows to ensure the availability of our data centers for disaster recovery. Marketing, Sales and Distribution We seek to expand our business through focused marketing campaigns and programs that target growth in the .com and .net domain name base, both domestically and in foreign markets. We provide tools to be used by both registrars and end users to enable them to find relevant domain names. We have marketing and sales offices in several countries around the world. Research and Development We believe that timely development of new and enhanced services, including monitoring and visualization, registry provisioning platforms, navigation and resolution services, data services, value added services, and new and enhanced ways to ensure the security, stability, and resiliency of our services, is necessary to remain competitive in the marketplace. Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our current technologies and services and to develop new ones. We actively investigate and incubate new concepts and evaluate new business ideas through our innovation pipeline. We expect that most of the future enhancements to our existing services and our new services will be the result of internal development efforts in collaboration with suppliers, other vendors, customers, and the technology community. Under certain circumstances, we may also acquire or license technology from third parties. The markets for our services are dynamic, characterized by ongoing technological developments, shifting channel dynamics, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. The constantly changing nature of these markets and the continued evolution of security threats will require us to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our services, and to introduce both new and enhanced products and services. Competition We face competition in the domain name registry space from other gTLD and ccTLD registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration. In addition to the gTLD and ccTLD registries we operate or for which we provide back-end registry services, there are over 1,100 other operational gTLD registries, over 250 ASCII ccTLD registries, more than 50 IDN ccTLD registries, and over 90 IDN gTLD registries. Under our agreements with ICANN, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling, marketing, methods of distribution, introduction of new registry services, and use of registrars, that do not apply to ccTLDs and other gTLDs and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. Among our competitors operating gTLD and ccTLD registries are China Internet Network Information Center (CNNIC), DENIC, Nominet, Public Interest Registry (PIR), Donuts, GoDaddy, and Radix. To the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation via domain names, or transact on e-commerce platforms, we face competition from search engines such as Google, Bing, Yahoo!, and Baidu, social media networks such as Facebook and WeChat, e-commerce platforms such as Amazon, eBay and Taobao, and microblogging tools such as Twitter. In addition, we face competition from these social media and e-commerce platforms if they are used by businesses and individuals to establish an online presence rather than through the use of a domain name. 5 Table of Contents Furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of mobile applications to locate and access content, we face competition from providers of such web and mobile applications. New technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. Our industry is characterized by collaborative relationships involving our competitors. In the past, certain of our competitors have consolidated. Our ability to participate and benefit from such collaborative arrangements or consolidations may be limited and such collaborative arrangements and consolidations could harm our competitive position and adversely impact our business. Industry Regulation The internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector, including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as ICANN, governments, including the U.S. government, academia, non-governmental organizations, and international organizations. ICANN plays a central coordination role in this bottom-up multi-stakeholder system. ICANN is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. ICANN s multi-stakeholder policy development processes have created, and will continue to create, policies, programs, and standards that directly or indirectly impact our business. Certain policies can be adopted as Consensus or Temporary Policies, which we are obligated to follow under our agreements with ICANN. For example, in response to the General Data Protection Regulation, ICANN issued a Temporary Policy modifying public access to information from the Whois services delivered by registrars and registries. We are also subject to country-level laws and regulations in the United States and in international locations. In China, we are required to maintain licenses for . com, . net, .tv and .cc under regulations issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The licenses for .com and .net must be renewed in 2022. Additionally, in many jurisdictions in which we operate, including California, the European Union, the United Kingdom, China and elsewhere, strict new data security and data privacy regulations have been, or are being, adopted. Because we do not possess extensive personal information, we have not yet experienced significant impacts from these regulations. However, compliance costs and other business impacts could become significant if we begin to receive personal registrant information in our . com and . net TLDs and as regulatory enforcement increases, as courts interpret these regulations, and as new laws and regulations continue to be adopted. Other regulations, or changes to regulations, may also impact our business operations, including changes to the Digital Services Act or Network and Information Security Directive, in the European Union, or the Communications Decency Act, in the United States. .com Top-Level Domain Our operation of the . com TLD is subject to the terms of a registry agreement with ICANN (as amended, the . com Registry Agreement ). The current term of the .com Registry Agreement is six years and must be renewed or extended by November 30, 2024. Although the .com Registry Agreement contains a presumptive right of renewal, ICANN could terminate or refuse to renew the Registry Agreement. See Risk Factors - Any loss or modification of our right to operate the . com and . net gTLDs could have a material adverse impact on our business and result in loss of revenues. in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information. Other significant terms within the . com Registry Agreement include performance specifications and service level agreements for the availability of our DNS resolution services, our shared registration system, and our Whois services. The . com Registry Agreement contains marketing limitations, including limitations on our ability to bundle products and the manner in which we provide marketing support to ICANN-accredited registrars. We are also required under the . com Registry Agreement to provide ICANN-accredited registrars with access to our systems to register or take other actions related to domain names. In order to introduce new Registry Services or make material changes to existing Registry Services, we must follow prescribed procedures which permit ICANN to review and approve such services. The .com Registry Agreement requires that on a quarterly basis we pay $0.25 to ICANN for each annual term of a domain name registered or renewed during such quarter. Amendment 3 to the . com Registry Agreement permits an increase to the Maximum Price (as defined in the .com Registry Agreement) of .com domain name registrations by up to 7% over the previous year in each of the final four years of each six-year period. The first such six-year period began on October 26, 2018. Amendment 3 also clarified that the restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement relating to vertical integration apply solely to the .com TLD and also clarified that our ability to increase prices by 7% over the previous year due to new ICANN Consensus Policies or documented extraordinary expense may occur only in years where we do not otherwise take the price increases described above. Our operation of the . com TLD is also subject to the terms of a Cooperative Agreement with the DOC. The Cooperative Agreement has undergone various amendments with the most recent, Amendment 35, on October 26, 2018. Amendment 35 extended the term of the Cooperative Agreement until November 30, 2024, which will automatically renew on the same terms for successive six-year terms unless the DOC provides written notice of non-renewal 120 days prior to the end of the then-current term. 6 Table of Contents Amendment 35 includes the DOC s consent to the modification of the pricing terms in the . com Registry Agreement (as described above). The Cooperative Agreement further provides that we shall be entitled at any time during the term of the .com Registry Agreement to seek to remove the pricing restrictions contained in the .com Registry Agreement if we demonstrate to the DOC that market conditions no longer warrant pricing restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement, as determined by the DOC. DOC approval of changes to or the renewal of the . com Registry Agreement was limited by Amendment 35 to only the following circumstances: (1) changes to the pricing provisions (other than as approved in Amendment 35), (2) changes to the vertical integration provisions (other than the clarification approved in Amendment 35), (3) changes to the security, stability and resiliency posture as reflected in the functional or performance specifications (including the service level agreements), (4) changes to the conditions for renewal or termination of the .com Registry Agreement, or (5) changes to the Whois service (except as mandated by ICANN through Temporary or Consensus Policies). As was the case with prior amendments, Amendment 35 is not intended to confer federal antitrust immunity on the Company with respect to the . com Registry Agreement. Finally, Amendment 35 clarified that the restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement relating to vertical integration apply solely to the . com TLD. As to the . com TLD, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any ICANN-accredited registrar that sells . com domain names. In addition, under Amendment 35, we have agreed to continue to operate the . com TLD in a content-neutral manner and to work within ICANN processes to promote the development of content-neutral policies for the operation of the DNS. .net Top-Level Domain Our operation of the . net TLD is subject to the terms of a registry agreement with ICANN (as amended, the .net Registry Agreement ). The current term of this agreement is six years and must be renewed or extended by July 1, 2023. The terms of the . net Registry Agreement are substantially similar to the terms of the . com Registry Agreement, except that we are entitled to raise the annual price for new and renewal . net domain name registrations by 10% each year. Root Operations We operate two of the world s thirteen root servers. Along with the ICANN community, we are involved in discussions to establish criteria for operations of the root server system including the root servers that we operate. We also publish the root zone file, as the Root Zone Maintainer, under the Root Zone Maintainer Service Agreement ( RZMA ) with ICANN. The RZMA will expire on October 19, 2024, with an automatic renewal, unless earlier terminated. The descriptions of the .com Registry Agreement, the Cooperative Agreement, and the .net Registry Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the text of the complete agreements that are incorporated by reference as exhibits in this Form 10-K. Human Capital Management We recognize the importance of talent and culture in driving an environment that fosters high performance. Our employee value proposition and collaborative working environment allows us to attract a strong talent base to meet the current and future demands of our business. We are committed to attracting, developing, and retaining the best talent, and we routinely monitor and present our progress in these areas to executive management and the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors through a variety of workforce metrics (e.g. workforce demographics, hiring, turnover, and promotion rates, including diversity characteristics for each of these metrics). As of December 31, 2021, we had 904 employees, of which 902 were full-time. 838 employees (representing approximately 93% of our total workforce) were based in the U.S., and 66 employees (representing approximately 7% of our total workforce) were based outside the U.S. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 29% of our global workforce was female, and approximately 43% of our U.S. employees were ethnically and racially diverse. No U.S.-based employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. Based on periodic monitoring, we believe that our employee turnover rate is relatively low compared to competitive benchmarks and historical trends. We attribute our strong retention rates to our passion and focus on the Company s mission and values, continual development of talent, and the delivery of competitive and equitable reward programs. We regularly review our workforce policies, procedures, and training programs, as well as our overall workforce demographics, in an effort to create a work environment that is diverse, equitable, inclusive, and free from discrimination. Key human capital areas that we focus on in managing our business include Employee Engagement and Retention, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Compensation and Employee Benefits, Talent Development, and Talent Acquisition. Employee Engagement and Retention: We use employee feedback to monitor morale and engagement. During 2021, we conducted several surveys to better understand our employees well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic and to more effectively guide our response. These surveys included two directed to all employees, one directed only to our 7 Table of Contents onsite employees and one directed only to our leaders. At least 85% of the applicable employee populations participated in each of these surveys. The results indicated high satisfaction rates with our on-going response to, and communications during, the pandemic. In addition, the survey results indicated that our employees remain highly engaged and connected with our mission and values. Moreover, when we hire talent, they tend to stay. The average tenure of our employees is approximately 9 years. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI): We are a diverse organization, and we believe that drives stronger performance, better decision making, and a culture where differences are valued. We continue to focus on the hiring, retention, and advancement of women and underrepresented populations, and we are committed to making progress towards increasing workforce diversity. In 2021, we conducted a diversity, equity and inclusion review of our recruiting, retention and workplace processes with the help of an outside advisor. This resulted in the development of a comprehensive strategy and roadmap designed to assist us in building upon our strong foundation while outlining areas for improvement. Compensation and Employee Benefits: To align with our philosophy of providing compelling total rewards, we have practices in place to deliver fair and equitable compensation for employees based on their contribution and performance. We benchmark for market practices and regularly review our compensation and benefits against the market to confirm they remain competitive. We also offer a broad and comprehensive set of b