Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 1C . Cybersecurity 19 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. [Reserved] 23 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 54 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 54 Item 9B. Other Information 55 Item 9C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 55 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11. Executive Compensation 56 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 56 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 56 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 57 Item 16. 10-K Summary 59 Signatures 60 2 Table of Contents For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K ), the terms Verisign , the Company , we , us , and our refer to VeriSign, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a global provider of critical internet infrastructure and domain name registry services, enabling internet navigation for many of the world s most recognized domain names. We help enable the security, stability, and resiliency of the Domain Name System ( DNS ) and the internet by providing Root Zone Maintainer services, operating two of the thirteen global internet root servers, and providing registration services and authoritative resolution for the . com and . net top-level domains ( TLDs ), which support the majority of global e-commerce. We were incorporated in Delaware on April 12, 1995. Our principal executive offices are located at 12061 Bluemont Way, Reston, Virginia 20190. Our telephone number at that address is (703) 948-3200. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol VRSN. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and certain other product or service names are registered or unregistered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. Other names used in this Form 10-K may be trademarks of their respective owners. Our primary website is https://www.verisign.com . The information available on, or accessible through, this website is not incorporated in this Form 10-K by reference. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), are available, free of charge, on the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as is reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at https://www.sec.gov . Pursuant to our agreements with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ), we make available files containing all active domain names registered in the . com and . net registries. Further, we also make available a summary of the active zone count registered in the . com and .net registries and the number of .com and .net domain name registrations in the domain name base. The zone counts and information on how to obtain access to the zone files can be found at https://www.verisign.com/zone . The domain name base is the active zone plus the number of domain names that are registered but not configured for use in the respective top-level domain zone file plus the number of domain names that are in a client or server hold status. The domain name base may also reflect compensated or uncompensated judicial or administrative actions to keep in or remove from the active zone an immaterial number of domain names. These files and the related summary data are updated at least once per day. The update times may vary each day. The number of domain names provided in this Form 10-K are as of midnight of the date reported. We announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website https://investor.verisign.com , SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels and websites listed below. This list may be updated from time to time on our investor relations website. https://verisign.com https://blog.verisign.com https://facebook.com/verisign https://x.com/verisign https://linkedin.com/company/verisign https://youTube.com/user/verisign https://dnib.com The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file. Services We operate the authoritative directory, for all .com, .net, and .name domain names (generic top-level domains, gTLDs ), as well as for certain transliterations of . com and . net in number of different native languages and scripts (internationalized generic top-level domains, IDN gTLDs ). We also operate the authoritative directory for all . cc domain names (country code top-level domain, or ccTLD ). We operate the technical or back-end systems for . edu and certain other gTLDs. As the registry 3 Table of Contents or service provider for these top-level domains, our services allow individuals and organizations to establish their online identities, while providing the secure, always-on access they need to communicate and transact reliably with online audiences. We operate the .com, .net, and .name gTLDs and the IDN gTLDs under registry agreements with ICANN and also, with respect to the .com gTLD, a Cooperative Agreement with the U.S. Department of Commerce ( DOC ). We operate the . cc ccTLD under an agreement with Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Under separate agreements, we provide technical or back-end services for . edu and for certain other gTLDs. We also perform the Root Zone Maintainer function under an agreement with ICANN for the core of the internet s DNS and operate two of the thirteen root zone servers that contain authoritative data for the top of the DNS hierarchy. Our global constellation of DNS servers provides internet protocol ( IP ) address information in response to queries, enabling the use of browsers, email systems, and other systems on the internet. In addition, we own and maintain our shared registration system that allows registrars to enter new second-level domain names into Verisign-operated central directories and to submit modifications, transfers, re-registrations, and deletions for existing second-level domain names ( Shared Registration System ). Domain names in the registries we operate can be registered for between one and 10 years. Unlike other gTLDs, the prices we charge for .com , .net and .name domain name registrations are subject to restrictions in our agreements with ICANN and our prices may be increased only according to those restrictions. Retail pricing for these domain name registrations is established by registrars. For .com and .name domain name registrations, we pay ICANN on a quarterly basis $0.25 for each annual domain name registration. For .net domain name registrations, we remit to ICANN a $0.75 fee per annual . net domain name registration that is collected from registrars. Revenues for .cc domain names and our IDN gTLDs are based on prices that are not subject to the same pricing restrictions as those for the . com , . net and . name gTLDs. The fees for our performance of technical or back-end services for .edu and certain other gTLDs are based on the terms of our agreements with those respective businesses . Operations Infrastructure Our main operations infrastructure consists of secure data centers in Dulles, Virginia; Ashburn, Virginia; and New Castle, Delaware; as well as more than 200 other points of presence around the world. Our domain name servers refer requestors to the associated authoritative name servers for second level domains in the registries we operate or support, thus enabling DNS resolution for .com and .net domain names and for domain names in the other registries that we operate, or for which we provide technical or back-end services. Our servers process hundreds of billions of transactions daily. Our operations infrastructure operates continuously, supporting the security, integrity and availability of our services, which are critical for our business and internet users. The performance and availability of our infrastructure are critical for our business. Key features of our operations infrastructure include: Distributed Servers: We operate a large number of high-speed servers globally to support localized transaction volume and performance demands. In conjunction with our proprietary software, processes and procedures, this purpose-built global constellation of servers offers rapid failover, global and local load balancing, and threshold monitoring on critical servers. Networking: We deploy and maintain a redundant and diverse global network, maintain high-speed, redundant connections to numerous internet service providers, and maintain network interconnection relationships globally to ensure that our critical services are readily accessible to end users. Security and Availability: We incorporate architectural concepts such as protected domains, restricted nodes, and distributed access control in our system architecture. In addition, we employ firewalls and intrusion detection software, endpoint and network detection and response systems as well as proprietary security mechanisms at many points across our infrastructure. We perform continuous internal vulnerability testing and periodic controls audits, and also contract with third-party security organizations to perform periodic penetration tests and security risk assessments on our systems. We have engineered resiliency and diversity into how we host classes of products throughout our set of interconnected sites to reduce the risk of unknown vendor defects and zero-day security vulnerabilities. Data Integrity: We use several proprietary systemic integrity checks and validations to ensure data correctness when updating and publishing the DNS records for the registries we operate. We continuously seek to enhance our infrastructure and capabilities to support both normal and peak system load plus attack volumes based on historical experience, as well as to address projected internet attack trends. 4 Table of Contents Call Centers and Service Desk: We provide customer support services over the phone, by email and through web-based self-help systems. Our support teams are staffed with trained technical customer support personnel. Support is available for customers 24 hours a day. Operations Support and Monitoring: Through our network operations center, we have an extensive monitoring capability that enables us to track the status and performance of our critical systems, network and services. Our network operations center monitors our systems continuously. Disaster Recovery Plans: We have disaster recovery and business continuity capabilities that are designed to deal with the loss of entire data centers and other facilities. We maintain data centers with mirrored services that allow failover with no data loss and no loss of function or capacity. Our critical data services (including domain name registration and global resolution) use advanced storage systems that provide data protection through techniques such as synchronous mirroring and remote replication. We periodically operate services at alternate data centers during maintenance windows to ensure the availability of our data centers for disaster recovery. Marketing, Sales and Distribution We seek to expand our business through focused marketing campaigns and programs that target growth in .com , .net and .cc domain names, both domestically and internationally. We provide tools to be used by both registrars and end users to enable them to find relevant domain names. We have marketing and sales offices and account management teams in several countries around the world. Research and Development We believe that timely development of new and enhanced capabilities for our DNS registration and resolution infrastructure and of new and enhanced ways to ensure the security, stability, and resiliency of our services, are vital to protect our business in an ever-increasing cyberthreat environment, to adapt to evolving internet protocols and standards, and to remain competitive in the marketplace. We also invest in R D that benefits the DNS and internet community in which we operate more broadly. Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our current technologies and services and to develop new ones. We actively investigate and incubate new concepts and evaluate new business ideas through our innovation pipeline. We expect that most of the future enhancements to our existing services and our new services will be the result of internal development efforts in collaboration with suppliers, other vendors, customers, and the technology community. Under certain circumstances, we may also acquire or license technology from third parties. Competition We face competition in the domain name registry space from other gTLD and ccTLD registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration. In addition to the registries we operate or for which we provide technical or back-end services, there are numerous other operational gTLD registries, ASCII ccTLD registries, IDN ccTLD registries, and IDN gTLD registries. Under our agreements with ICANN, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling, marketing, methods of distribution, introduction of new registry services, and use of registrars, that do not apply to ccTLDs and other gTLDs and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. Among our competitors operating gTLD and ccTLD registries are China Internet Network Information Center (CNNIC), DENIC eG, Nominet, Identity Digital, Public Interest Registry (PIR), CentralNic, Google, .xyz, GoDaddy, and Radix. To the extent end-users establish their online identity using social media, as opposed to domain names, or transact on e-commerce platforms, we face competition from social media networks such as Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, and WeChat, e-commerce platforms such as Amazon, Etsy, eBay, and Taobao, and microblogging tools such as X (formerly Twitter). Furthermore, we face competition from providers of web and mobile applications that allow end-users to locate and access content. Alternative namespaces, new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. Our industry is characterized by collaborative relationships involving our competitors. In the past, certain of our competitors have consolidated. Our ability to participate and benefit from such collaborative arrangements or consolidations may be limited and such collaborative arrangements and consolidations could harm our competitive position and adversely impact our business. 5 Table of Contents Industry Regulation The DNS is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector, including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as ICANN, governments, including the U.S. government, academia, non-governmental organizations, and international organizations. ICANN plays a central coordination role in this bottom-up multi-stakeholder system. ICANN is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. ICANN s multi-stakeholder policy development processes have created, and will continue to create, policies, programs, and standards that directly or indirectly impact our business. Certain policies can be adopted as Consensus or Temporary Policies, which we are obligated to follow under our agreements with ICANN. We are also subject to country-level laws and regulations in the United States and in international locations. In China, we are required to maintain licenses for . com, . net, and .cc under regulations issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. Additionally, in many jurisdictions in which we operate, including California, the European Union, the United Kingdom, China and elsewhere, strict data security and data privacy regulations have been, or are being, adopted. Because we do not possess extensive personal registrant information, we have not yet experienced significant impacts from these regulations. However, compliance costs and other business impacts could become significant if we begin to receive personal registrant information in our . com and . net gTLDs, as regulatory enforcement increases, as courts interpret these regulations, and as new laws and regulations are adopted. Other regulations, or changes to regulations, may also significantly impact our business operations, including, for example, changes to the Network and Information Security Directive, in the European Union, or the Communications Decency Act, in the United States, or the Personal Information Protection Law, in China. .com Generic Top-Level Domain Our operation of the . com gTLD is subject to the terms of a registry agreement with ICANN (as amended, the . com Registry Agreement ). The current term of the .com Registry Agreement is six years and must be renewed or extended by November 30, 2024. Although the .com Registry Agreement contains a presumptive right of renewal, ICANN could terminate or refuse to renew the Registry Agreement in certain prescribed circumstances. See Risk Factors - Any loss or modification of our right to operate the . com and . net gTLDs could have a material adverse impact on our business and result in loss of revenues. in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information. Other significant terms within the . com Registry Agreement include performance specifications and service level agreements, including by example, for the availability of our DNS resolution services, our Shared Registration System, and our Whois services. The . com Registry Agreement contains marketing limitations, including limitations on our ability to bundle products and the manner in which we provide marketing support to ICANN-accredited registrars. We are also required under the . com Registry Agreement to provide ICANN-accredited registrars with nondiscriminatory access to our systems to register or take other actions related to domain names. In order to introduce new Registry Services or make material changes to existing Registry Services, we must follow prescribed procedures which permit ICANN to review and approve such services. Amendment 3 to the . com Registry Agreement permits an increase to the Maximum Price (as defined in the .com Registry Agreement) of .com domain name registrations by up to 7% over the previous year in each of the final four years of each six-year period. The first such six-year period began on October 26, 2018. Amendment 3 also clarified that the restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement relating to vertical integration apply solely to the .com gTLD and also clarified that our ability to increase prices by 7% over the previous year due to new ICANN Consensus Policies or documented extraordinary expense may occur only in years where we do not otherwise take the price increases described above. Our operation of the . com gTLD is also subject to the terms of a Cooperative Agreement with the DOC. The Cooperative Agreement has undergone various amendments with the most recent, Amendment 35, on October 26, 2018. Amendment 35 extended the term of the Cooperative Agreement until November 30, 2024, which will automatically renew on the same terms for successive six-year terms unless the DOC provides written notice of non-renewal 120 days prior to the end of the then-current term. Amendment 35 includes the DOC s consent to the modification of the pricing terms in the . com Registry Agreement (as described above). The Cooperative Agreement further provides that we shall be entitled at any time during the term of the .com Registry Agreement to seek to remove the pricing restrictions contained in the .com Registry Agreement if we demonstrate to the DOC that market conditions no longer warrant pricing restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement, as determined by the DOC. DOC approval of changes to or the renewal of the . com Registry Agreement was limited by Amendment 35 to only the following circumstances: (1) changes to the pricing provisions (other than as approved in Amendment 35), (2) changes to the vertical integration provisions (other than the clarification approved in Amendment 35), (3) changes to the security, stability and resiliency posture as reflected in the functional or performance specifications (including the service level agreements), (4) changes to the conditions for renewal or termination of the .com Registry Agreement, or (5) changes to the Whois service (except as mandated by ICANN through Temporary or Consensus Policies). As was the case with prior amendments, 6 Table of Contents Amendment 35 is not intended to confer federal antitrust immunity on the Company with respect to the . com Registry Agreement. Finally, Amendment 35 clarified that the restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement relating to vertical integration apply solely to the . com gTLD. As to the . com gTLD, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any ICANN-accredited registrar that sells . com domain names. In addition, under Amendment 35, we have agreed to continue to operate the . com gTLD in a content-neutral manner and to work within ICANN processes to promote the development of content-neutral policies for the operation of the DNS. .net Generic Top-Level Domain Our operation of the . net g TLD is subject to the terms of a registry agreement with ICANN (as amended, the .net Registry Agreement ). The .net Registry Agreement was renewed on June 29, 2023. The current term of this agreement is six years and must be renewed or extended by July 1, 2029. The terms of the . net Registry Agreement are substantially similar to the terms of the . com Registry Agreement, except as to ICANN fees as described earlier and that the annual price for new and renewal . net domain name registrations may be increased by 10% each year. Our operation of the . net gTLD is not subject to the terms of the Cooperative Agreement. Root Operations We operate two of the world s thirteen root servers. Along with the ICANN community, we are involved in discussions to establish criteria for operations of the root server system including the root servers that we operate. We also publish the root zone file, as the Root Zone Maintainer, under the Root Zone Maintainer Service Agreement ( RZMA ) with ICANN. The current term of the RZMA ends on October 19, 2024 and is subject to an automatic renewal for another eight-year term, unless earlier modified or terminated. The descriptions of the .com Registry Agreement, the Cooperative Agreement, and the .net Registry Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the text of the complete agreements that are incorporated by reference as exhibits in this Form 10-K. Human Capital Management Our employees are mission driven and values focused. Their dedication to these principles forms the backbone that enables Verisign to provide for the security, stability, and resiliency of the DNS and the internet. We recognize the importance of talent and culture in driving an environment that fosters high performance, inclusion, and integrity in all aspects of our work. We are committed to attracting, developing, and retaining the best talent, and we routinely monitor and present our progress in these areas to executive management and the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2023, we had 908 employees, of which 907 were full-time. 846 employees (representing approximately 93% of our total workforce) were based in the U.S., and 62 employees (representing approximately 7% of our total workforce) were based outside the U.S. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 30% of our global workforce was female, and approximately 44% of our U.S. employees were ethnically and racially diverse. No U.S.-based employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. Based on periodic monitoring, we believe that our employee turnover is relatively low compared to competitive benchmarks and historical trends. We attribute our strong retention rates to our passion for and focus on the Company s mission and values, our continual development of talent, and our delivery of competitive and equitable reward programs. We regularly review our workforce policies, procedures, and training programs, as well as our overall workforce demographics, in an effort to create a work environment that is diverse, equitable, inclusive, and free from discrimination. Employee Engagement: In order to deliver on our mission, it is essential to have an engaged workforce that exhibits our values, which include: being stewards of the internet, being passionate about technology, respecting others, exhibiting integrity, taking responsibility, and holding ourselves to a higher standard. These principles are integrated into our operating model and are foundational to our ability to attract, retain, and develop top talent. This commitment serves to create engagement and drives a collaborative and inclusive environment where our employees can thrive. To monitor engagement levels and well-being we routinely conduct employee surveys. In our most recent survey in October 2023, approximately 93% of our employee population participated. The survey results indicated that our employees remain highly engaged and connected with our mission and values. Another engagement indicator is that the average tenure of our employees is approximately 10 years. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI): We are a diverse organization, and we believe that drives stronger performance, better decision making, and an inclusive culture where differences are valued. We strive to create an environment where employees feel a sense of belonging and feel empowered to bring their diverse skills, perspectives and talents to bear. In 2023, we reinforced our strong foundation of equity and inclusion through roundtable discussions to support open dialogue, training sessions on the importance of a diverse and inclusive workplace and growing our employee resource group representation. As part of our commitment to diversity, Verisign continues to partner with organizations that are dedicated to resisting and reversing historical injustice. Our progress is evident through our October 2023 employee survey results where participants 7 Table of Contents indicated that they understand how to support an inclusive work environment and that Verisign demonstrates a visible commitment to diversity. Compensation, Pay Equity, and Employee Benefits: To align with our philosophy of providing compelling total rewards, we have practices in place to deliver fair and equitable compensation for employees based on their contribution and performance. We benchmark and regularly review our compensation and benefits against the market to confirm they remain competitive. We offer a broad and comprehensive set of benefits to meet the diverse needs of our workforce. In addition, we regularly perform analyses on base pay, annual incentives, and long-term incentives to help calibrate compensation and ensure pay equity. Talent Development and Acquisition: We are committed to the continued development of our people. Strategic talent reviews and succession planning occur on a regular basis. We designed our management training to increase capability in the areas of communication, engagement, coaching, conflict management, and business skills, while fostering an ethical, supportive work environment free from bias and harassment. We believe that employee development is anchored in acquiring skills and work experiences that meet the needs of the business and the individual. We focus on leadership capability development and provide learning opportunities that enhance technical and soft skills to equip our workforce for current and future growth opportunities. Our learning opportunities are a blend of on-the-job experiences, instructor-led and on-demand learning sessions that meet the unique development needs of our workforce. Our managers regularly hold conversations with employees about career management, coaching, and other development opportunities to help encourage and drive the growth of our talent. We are focused on the competitive labor market, and we are working diligently to attract the best talent from a diverse range of sources. We continue to broaden our sourcing strategie