Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II. Item 5. Market For Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 58 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 59 Item 11. Executive Compensation 67 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 90 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 91 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 93 i Explanatory Note Vertiv Holdings Co, formerly known as GS Acquisition Holdings Corp, was originally incorporated in Delaware on April 25, 2016 as a special purpose acquisition company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. On June 12, 2018, GSAH (as defined below) consummated its initial public offering (the IPO ), following which its securities began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE ). On February 7, 2020 (the Closing Date ), Vertiv Holdings Co consummated its previously announced business combination pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 10, 2019 (the Merger Agreement ), by and among GSAH, Vertiv Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ( Vertiv Holdings ), VPE Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the Vertiv Stockholder ), Crew Merger Sub I LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of GSAH ( First Merger Sub ), and Crew Merger Sub II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of GSAH ( Second Merger Sub ). As contemplated by the Merger Agreement, (1) First Merger Sub merged with and into Vertiv Holdings, with Vertiv Holdings continuing as the surviving entity (the First Merger ) and (2) immediately following the First Merger and as part of the same overall transaction as the First Merger, Vertiv Holdings merged with and into Second Merger Sub, with Second Merger Sub continuing as the surviving entity and renamed Vertiv Holdings, LLC (the Second Merger and, collectively with the First Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Business Combination ). In connection with the Business Combination, GS Acquisition Holdings Corp changed its name to Vertiv Holdings Co and changed the trading symbols for its units, each unit representing one share of Class A common stock and one-third of one redeemable warrant to acquire one share of Class A common stock, that were issued in the IPO (less the number of units that have been separated into the underlying shares of Class A common stock (the public shares ) and underlying warrants (the public warrants ) upon the request of the holder thereof) (the units ) , Class A common stock and public warrants on the NYSE from GSAH.U, GSAH and GSAH WS, and to VERT.U, VRT and VRT WS, respectively. As a result of the Business Combination, Vertiv Holdings Co became the owner, directly or indirectly, of all of the assets of Vertiv and its subsidiaries, and the Vertiv Stockholder holds a portion of the Company s Class A common stock. Unless the context otherwise indicates or requires, references to (1) the Company , we , us and our refer to Vertiv Holdings Co, a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries following the Business Combination; (2) GSAH refer to GS Acquisition Holdings Corp prior to the Business Combination; and (3) Vertiv refer to Vertiv Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination. This Annual Report on Form 10-K principally describes the business and operations of the Company following the Business Combination, other than the financial statements and related Management Discussion and Analysis which describe the business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources of GSAH prior to the Business Combination. Substantially concurrently with the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we will be filing Amendment No. 2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, initially filed on February 7, 2020, which will include the audited consolidated financial statements of Vertiv Holdings, LLC for the year ended December 31, 2019 and related Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Interested parties should refer to our Current Report on Form 8-K for more information. 2 CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking and as such are not historical facts. This includes, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, capital structure, dividends, indebtedness, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, including as they relate to the anticipated effects of the Business Combination (as defined herein). These statements constitute projections, forecasts and forward-looking statements, and are not guarantees of performance. Such statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, strive, would and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. When the Company discusses its strategies or plans, including as they relate to the Business Combination, it is making projections, forecasts or forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the beliefs of, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to, the Company s management. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on the Company. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting the Company will be those that the Company has anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company s control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to: (1) the benefits of the Business Combination; (2) the future financial performance of the Company following the Business Combination; (3) the ability to maintain the listing of the Company s securities on the New York Stock Exchange; (4) the risk that the Business Combination disrupts current plans and operations of the Company; (5) the ability to recognize the anticipated benefits of the Business Combination, which may be affected by, among other things, competition, the ability of the Company to grow and manage growth profitably, maintain relationships with customers and suppliers and retain its management and key employees; (6) costs related to the Business Combination; (7) the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against the Company or any of its directors or officers, following the Business Combination; (8) the failure to realize anticipated pro forma results; (9) factors relating to the business, operations and financial performance of the Company and its subsidiaries, including: global economic weakness and uncertainty; risks relating to the continued growth of the Company s customers markets; failure to meet or anticipate technology changes; the unpredictability of the Company s future operational results; disruption of the Company s customers orders or the Company s customers markets; less favorable contractual terms with large customers; risks associated with governmental contracts; failure to mitigate risks associated with long-term fixed price contracts; risks associated with information technology disruption or security; risks associated with the implementation and enhancement of information systems; failure to properly manage the Company s supply chain or difficulties with third-party manufacturers; competition in the infrastructure technologies industry; failure to realize the expected benefit from any rationalization and improvement efforts; disruption of, or changes in, the Company s independent sales representatives, distributors and original equipment manufacturers; failure to obtain performance and other guarantees from financial institutions; failure to realize sales expected from the Company s backlog of orders and contracts; changes to tax law; ongoing tax audits; risks associated with future legislation and regulation of the Company s customers markets both in the United States and abroad; costs or liabilities associated with product liability; the Company s ability to attract, train and retain key members of its leadership team and other qualified personnel; the adequacy of the Company s insurance coverage; a failure to benefit from future acquisitions; failure to realize the value of goodwill and intangible assets; the global scope of the Company s operations; risks associated with the Company s sales and operations in emerging markets; exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the Company s ability to comply with various laws and regulations and the costs associated with legal compliance; adverse outcomes to any legal claims and proceedings filed by or against us; the Company s ability to protect or enforce its proprietary rights on which its business depends; third party intellectual property infringement claims; liabilities associated with environmental, health and safety matters; risks associated with the recent coronavirus outbreak; risks associated with the Company s limited history of operating as an independent company; and potential net losses in future periods; and (10) other risks and uncertainties indicated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those under