Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II. Item 5. Market For Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. [Reserved] 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 47 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B. Other Information 51 I tem 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 51 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 51 Item 11. Director and Executive Compensation 51 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 51 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 51 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 51 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 52 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 54 2 Table of contents Unless the context otherwise indicates or requires, references to the Company, Vertiv, we, us and our refer to Vertiv Holdings Co, a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report"), may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and as such are not historical facts. Such statements may include, without limitation, those regarding our future financial performance or position, capital structure, indebtedness, business performance, strategy and plans, and expectations and objectives of Vertiv management for future operations. These statements constitute projections, forecasts and forward-looking statements, and are not guarantees of results or performance. Vertiv cautions that such forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which may change over time. Such statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. When used in this Annual Report, words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, strive, would and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. When the Company discusses its strategies or plans, it is making projections, forecasts or forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the beliefs of, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to, the Company s management. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are based on current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on Vertiv. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Vertiv will be those that Vertiv has anticipated. Forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of this Annual Report or any earlier date specified for such statements. Vertiv undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on the Company s behalf are qualified in their entirety by this Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond Vertiv s control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from historical performance and include, but are not limited to: risks relating to the continued growth of Vertiv s customers markets; disruption of Vertiv s customers orders or Vertiv s customers markets; less favorable contractual terms with large customers; risks associated with governmental contracts; failure to mitigate risks associated with long-term fixed price contracts; competition in the infrastructure technologies industry; failure to obtain performance and other guarantees from financial institutions; failure to realize sales expected from Vertiv s backlog of orders and contracts; failure to properly manage the Vertiv s supply chain or difficulties with third-party manufacturers; our ability to forecast changes in prices, including due to inflation in material, freight and/or labor costs, and timely implement measures necessary to mitigate the impacts of any such changes; risks associated with our significant backlog, including that the impacts of any measures taken to mitigate inflation will not be reflected in our financial statements immediately; failure to meet or anticipate technology changes risks associated with information technology disruption or security; risks associated with the implementation and enhancement of information systems; failure to realize the expected benefit from any rationalization, restructuring and improvement efforts; Vertiv s ability to realize cost savings in connection with Vertiv's restructuring program; disruption of, or changes in, Vertiv s independent sales representatives, distributors and original equipment manufacturers; changes to tax law; ongoing tax audits; costs or liabilities associated with product liability; the global scope of Vertiv s operations; risks associated with Vertiv s sales and operations in emerging markets; risks associated with future legislation and regulation of Vertiv s customers markets both in the United States and abroad; Vertiv s ability to comply with various laws and regulations and the costs associated with legal compliance; adverse outcomes to any legal claims and proceedings filed by or against Vertiv; risks associated with litigation or claims against Vertiv; Vertiv s ability to protect or enforce its proprietary rights on which its business depends; third party intellectual property infringement claims; liabilities associated with environmental, health and safety matters, including risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic; failure to realize the value of goodwill and intangible assets; exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; failure to maintain internal controls over financial reporting; the unpredictability of Vertiv s future operational results, including the ability to grow and manage growth profitably; potential net losses in future periods; Vertiv s level of indebtedness and the ability to incur additional indebtedness; Vertiv s ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreements, including restrictive covenants that restrict operational flexibility; Vertiv s ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreements is not fully within our control; Vertiv s ability to access funding through capital markets; the Vertiv Stockholder s significant ownership and influence over the Company; risks associated with Vertiv s obligations to pay the 3 Table of contents Vertiv Stockholder portions of the tax benefits relating to pre-Business Combination tax assets and attributes; resales of Vertiv's securities may cause volatility in the market price of our securities; Vertiv's Organizational Documents contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals; Vertiv's Certificate of Incorporation includes a forum selection clause, which could discourage or limit stockholders ability to make a claim against it; the ability of Vertiv s subsidiaries to pay dividends; volatility in Vertiv's stock price due to various market and operational factors; risks associated with the failure of industry analysts to provide coverage of Vertiv's business or securities; competition, the ability of Vertiv to grow and manage growth profitably, maintain relationships with customers and suppliers and retain its management and key employees; and factors relating to the business, operations and financial performance of Vertiv and its subsidiaries, including: global economic weakness and uncertainty; Vertiv s ability to attract, train and retain key members of its leadership team and other qualified personnel; the adequacy of Vertiv s insurance coverage; a failure to benefit from future acquisitions; risks associated with Vertiv's limited history of operating as an independent company; and other risks and uncertainties indicated in this Annual Report including those under the heading