Item 1. Business 1 Information about our Executive Officers 24 Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 58 Item 2. Properties 58 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 58 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 58 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 59 Item 6. [Reserved] 60 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 61 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 77 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B. Other Information 80 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 81 Item 11. Executive Compensation 81 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 81 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 81 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 81 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 84 Signatures 85 Vertex, we, us and our as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, a Massachusetts corporation, and its subsidiaries. VERTEX , KALYDECO , ORKAMBI , SYMDEKO , SYMKEVI and TRIKAFTA are registered trademarks of Vertex. The trademark for KAFTRIO is pending in the United States and registered in the European Union. Other brands, names and trademarks contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. We use the brand name for our products when we refer to the product that has been approved and with respect to the indications on the approved label. Otherwise, including in discussions of our cystic fibrosis development programs, we refer to our compounds by their scientific (or generic) name or VX developmental designation. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipates, may, forecasts, expects, intends, plans, potentially, believes, seeks, estimates, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Please refer to Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1A, for a discussion of our forward-looking statements and the related risks and uncertainties of such statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a global biotechnology company that invests in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for people with serious diseases with a focus on specialty markets. We have multiple approved medicines that treat the underlying cause of cystic fibrosis, or CF, a life-threatening genetic disease, and we have several ongoing clinical and research programs to advance and extend treatment of CF. Beyond CF, we have a pipeline of investigational therapies in other serious diseases where we are leveraging insight into causal human biology, including sickle cell disease, beta thalassemia, APOL1-mediated kidney disease, type 1 diabetes, pain, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, and muscular dystrophies. Marketed Products Our goal in CF is to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to all people with CF and will enhance the benefits currently provided to people taking our medicines. Our marketed medicines are TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor/ivacaftor) and KALYDECO (ivacaftor). Collectively, our four medicines are being used to treat the majority of the approximately 83,000 people with CF in North America, Europe and Australia. We are focused on increasing the number of people with CF eligible and able to receive our medicines through label expansions, approval of new medicines, and expanded reimbursement. We are evaluating our current medicines in additional patient populations, including younger children, with the goal of having small molecule treatments for approximately 90% of people with CF. Research and Development Our strategy is to discover and develop innovative medicines by combining transformative advances in the understanding of human disease biology and in the science of therapeutics. This research and early development strategy includes advancing multiple compounds from each program into early clinical trials and evaluating the resulting patient data to inform the discovery and development of additional compounds, with the goal of bringing first-in-class and best-in-class therapies to patients. Our strategy and approach are intended to increase the likelihood of successfully bringing transformative medicines to patients, and to provide durable clinical and commercial success. We are advancing programs across multiple disease areas and modalities, including: Cystic Fibrosis. We are evaluating in Phase 3 clinical trials a new, once-daily investigational triple combination of VX-121/tezacaftor/VX-561 (deutivacaftor). We also are researching genetic therapies and gene-editing approaches to treat the remaining approximately 10% of people with CF who are not expected to benefit from our small molecule medicines. Sickle Cell Disease and Beta Thalassemia. We are evaluating in Phase 3 clinical trials CTX001, an investigational CRISPR/Cas9-based gene-editing therapy for severe sickle cell disease, or SCD, and transfusion-dependent beta thalassemia, or TDT, with CRISPR Therapeutics AG, or CRISPR. Enrollment is complete, and we anticipate regulatory submissions for CTX001 in late 2022. APOL1-Mediated Kidney Disease. Based on positive Phase 2 data for VX-147, our small molecule for the treatment of APOL1-mediated focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, or FSGS, we expect to advance VX-147 into pivotal development in a broader population of people with APOL1-mediated kidney disease, or AMKD, in the first quarter of 2022. Type 1 Diabetes. We are evaluating VX-880, a stem-cell derived islet cell therapy involving the transplantation of islet cells, for the potential treatment of type 1 diabetes, or T1D, in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial, and recently announced positive Day 150 data for the first T1D patient in this clinical trial. We will continue to dose patients in 2022. We also are pursuing additional programs in T1D, in which the implanted islet cells are encapsulated in an immunoprotective device or modified to produce hypoimmune cells. 1 Pain . We are evaluating VX-548, a NaV 1.8 inhibitor, for the non-opioid treatment of acute pain in two Phase 2 clinical trials. We expect to have data from these clinical trials in the first quarter of 2022. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, or AAT, Deficiency. We obtained proof-of-mechanism for VX-864 in a Phase 2 study of protein folding correction of the Z-AAT protein. We plan to advance into the clinic one or more novel small molecule correctors intended to address the lung and liver manifestations of AAT deficiency, or AATD, in 2022. Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD, and myotonic dystrophy type 1, or DM1. We are focused on advancing gene-editing therapies aimed at treating the underlying cause of DMD and DM1. We are also exploring potential small molecule approaches to address the underlying causal biology for both DMD and DM1. In addition to the clinical stage programs listed above, we have a number of early-stage research programs aimed at other targets that represent the causal human biology of serious diseases. We plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and fostering scientific innovation by identifying additional product candidates through our internal research efforts and investing in business development transactions to access emerging technologies, products and product candidates. CYSTIC FIBROSIS Background CF is a life-shortening genetic disease caused by a defective or missing cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, or CFTR, protein resulting from mutations in the CFTR gene. To develop CF, children must inherit two defective CFTR genes, which are referred to as alleles; one allele is inherited from each parent. The vast majority of patients with CF carry at least one F508del mutation. The F508del mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the CFTR protein does not reach the surface of the cells in sufficient quantities and does not adequately transport chloride ions. The absence of working CFTR proteins results in poor flow of salt and water into and out of cells in a number of organs, including the lungs. As a result, thick, sticky mucus builds up and blocks the passages in many organs, leading to a variety of symptoms. In particular, mucus builds up and clogs the airways in the lungs, causing chronic lung infections and progressive lung damage. CFTR potentiators such as ivacaftor and VX-561 increase the probability that the CFTR protein channels open on the cell surface, increasing the flow of salt and water into and out of the cell. CFTR correctors, such as lumacaftor, tezacaftor, and elexacaftor, help CFTR proteins reach the cell surface. 2 Our Medicines Our medicines are collectively being used by the majority of people with CF in North America, Europe and Australia. Our approved medicines, including information regarding the indication and age groups for which the medicine is approved, are set forth in the table below. Product Scientific Name Region/Initial Approval (1) Indication Eligible Age Group elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor U.S. (2019) People with CF with (i) at least one F508del mutation, or (ii) another mutation that is responsive to elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor 6 years of age and older elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor E.U. (2020) People with CF with at least one F508del mutation 6 years of age and older tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor U.S. (2018) People with CF (i) homozygous for the F508del mutation or (ii) with at least one mutation that is responsive to tezacaftor/ivacaftor 6 years of age and older tezacaftor/ivacaftor E.U. (2018) People with CF (i) homozygous for the F508del mutation or (ii) with one copy of the F508del mutation and one copy of certain mutations that result in residual CFTR activity 6 years of age and older lumacaftor/ivacaftor U.S. (2015) People with CF homozygous for the F508del mutation 2 years of age and older lumacaftor/ivacaftor E.U. (2015) People with CF homozygous for the F508del mutation 2 years of age and older ivacaftor U.S. (2012) People with CF with a mutation that is responsive to ivacaftor 4 months of age and older ivacaftor E.U. (2012) People with CF with R117H mutation or one of certain gating mutations 4 months of age and older (1) At the end of the Brexit transition period on January 1, 2021, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA, in Great Britain approved licenses for supply of each product in England, Scotland and Wales. The existing European Medicines Agency, or EMA, licenses continue to authorize supply in Northern Ireland. In addition to the European Union, or the E.U. and the United States, or the U.S., we market our products in additional countries, including the United Kingdom, or the U.K., Australia, Switzerland, Israel, and Canada. We continuously seek to increase the number of patients eligible and able to receive our current medicines through label expansions, approval of new medicines and expanded reimbursement. Since the beginning of 2021, events that have resulted from our efforts include: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, approved the use of TRIKAFTA for children with CF 6 through 11 years of age who have at least one F508del mutation or at least one other mutation that is responsive to TRIKAFTA. Health Canada granted marketing authorization for TRIKAFTA for people with CF 12 years of age and older who have at least one F508del mutation. Our application for approval of TRIKAFTA for children 6 through 11 years of age has been accepted for priority review by Health Canada. 3 In January 2022, the European Commission and the MHRA granted marketing authorization for KAFTRIO for the treatment of children with CF 6 through 11 years of age who have at least one F508del mutation in the CFTR gene. TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO is now approved and reimbursed or accessible in more than 20 countries outside the U.S. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS We invest in research and development to discover and develop transformative medicines for people with serious diseases, with a focus on specialty markets. Our research strategy is to combine transformative advances in the understanding of human disease biology and the science of therapeutics to discover and develop new medicines. Our approach to drug discovery has been validated through our success in moving novel small molecule product candidates into clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals for TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI for the treatment of CF and INCIVEK (telaprevir) for the treatment of hepatitis C infection. In addition, we have achieved clinical proof-of-concept for gene-editing of BCL11A for the treatment of beta thalassemia and SCD, for APOL1 inhibition to decrease proteinuria in patients with APOL1-mediated kidney disease, and for NaV1.8 inhibition in the treatment of three different pain models. We continue to research and develop small molecule product candidates for the treatment of serious diseases, including CF, APOL1-mediated kidney disease, pain, AATD, DMD and DM1. Our research and development approach includes advancing multiple candidates into clinical trials, pursuing multiple modalities and evaluating clinical and non-clinical data to inform drug discovery and development, with the goal of bringing best-in-class therapies to patients. Over the last several years, we have expanded our capabilities to include additional innovative therapeutic modalities with a focus on cell and genetic therapies, which have the potential to treat, and in some cases, cure diseases by addressing the underlying cause of the disease. We have increased our internal investment in cell and genetic therapies, including establishment of a new research and development site in Boston, Massachusetts focused primarily on cell and genetic therapies. In addition, we have made several significant investments in external innovation, including: our collaborations with CRISPR to access and develop therapeutics based on the CRISPR gene-editing technology, including an agreement under which we now lead the worldwide development, manufacturing and commercialization of CTX001; our establishment of cell therapy programs for T1D through our acquisition of Semma; our establishment of genetic therapy programs for DMD and DM1, through our acquisition of Exonics; and our collaboration with Moderna, Inc., or Moderna, for the discovery and development of lipid nanoparticles and mRNAs that can deliver gene-editing therapies. The experience we gained developing medicines for CF and our analysis of research and development programs conducted by other companies in our industry have shaped a disciplined strategy that guides our investments in research and development and external innovation that focuses on: transformative treatments for life-threatening diseases with a high unmet medical need; targets validated as playing a causal role in the human biology of a disease; innovative therapeutic approaches to addressing those targets; biological assays and clinical biomarkers designed to predict clinical responses; and efficient clinical and regulatory paths to bring new medicines to patients. To augment our internal programs, we plan to continue acquiring businesses and technologies and collaborating with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest, as well as to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. We have established such relationships with organizations around the world and intend to extend and leverage that experience to further our research efforts to discover transformational medicines for serious diseases. We will 4 continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions and collaborations that may be similar to or different from the transactions that we have engaged in previously. The following chart represents our pipeline programs by disease area, stage of development, and modality, for programs that have lead assets in the clinic. CF Pipeline We have initiated Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating a once-daily investigational triple combination of VX-121/tezacaftor/VX-561 (deutivacaftor). Clinical and preclinical data indicate that this triple combination has the potential to provide enhanced benefit beyond TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO for people with CF who have the F508del mutation on at least one allele. Our Phase 3 program consists of two 52-week clinical trials, which will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the new combination relative to TRIKAFTA in a total of 950 people with CF. Both clinical trials will measure the regulatory-enabling endpoint of absolute change in ppFEV1, a measure of lung function, that will be analyzed for non-inferiority to TRIKAFTA. The clinical trials also are designed to assess the absolute change from baseline in ppFEV1 and sweat chloride for superiority to TRIKAFTA. We continue to identify and develop additional CFTR modulators with the goal of achieving carrier levels of CFTR activity for approximately 90% of people with CF who respond to CFTR modulators. We continue to research genetic therapies, such as messenger ribonucleic acid, or mRNA, and gene-editing approaches, to treat the remaining approximately 10% of people with CF who do not make CFTR protein and, as a result, are not expected to benefit from our small molecule medicines. In collaboration with Moderna, we are developing CF mRNA therapeutics designed to treat the underlying cause of CF for these people by enabling cells in the lungs to produce functional CFTR protein. We are conducting enabling studies and expect to submit an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, for this program in 2022. Sickle Cell Disease and Beta Thalassemia SCD and beta thalassemia are hemoglobinopathies, a group of inherited blood disorders that result from gene mutations that alter hemoglobin, a protein in red blood cells that delivers oxygen throughout the body. SCD is caused by the change of a single amino acid in the hemoglobin gene that causes red cells to change shape in settings of low oxygen. These sickled cells block blood flow and can lead to severe pain, organ damage, and shortened life span. Treatment is typically focused on relieving pain and minimizing organ damage, requiring medication and, for some patients, monthly blood transfusions and frequent hospital visits. We believe there are approximately 25,000 patients with severe SCD in the U.S. and Europe. 5 Beta thalassemia is caused by loss-of-function mutations in hemoglobin that lead to severe anemia in patients, which causes fatigue and shortness of breath. In infants, beta thalassemia causes failure to thrive, jaundice, and feeding problems. Complications of beta thalassemia can lead to an enlarged spleen, liver and/or heart, misshapen bones and delayed puberty. Treatment for beta thalassemia varies depending on the disease severity for each patient. Patients with TDT, the most severe form of the disease, require regular blood transfusions, as frequently as every two to four weeks. Repeated blood transfusions eventually cause an unhealthy buildup of iron in the patient, leading to organ damage. We believe that there are approximately 7,000 patients with TDT in the U.S. and Europe. We are developing CTX001, an investigational CRISPR/Cas9-based gene-editing therapy, for the treatment severe SCD and TDT, with our collaborator, CRISPR. Our therapeutic approach involves isolating hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, or HSPCs, which give rise to red blood cells, from a patient, treating those cells ex vivo with CRISPR/Cas9 in order to modify the erythroid-specific enhancer in the BCL11A gene, and reintroducing the edited cells back into the patient. This approach has the potential to increase levels of fetal hemoglobin in erythrocytes and reduce or eliminate symptoms associated with disease. We are investigating CTX001 in two Phase 3 open-label clinical trials designed to assess the safety and efficacy of a single dose of CTX001 in patients ages 12 to 35 with severe SCD (the CLIMB SCD-121 clinical trial) and TDT (the CLIMB THAL-111 clinical trial), respectively. Patients enrolled in the clinical trials first undergo a treatment that mobilizes a population of HSPCs from the bone marrow into the bloodstream. Blood cells are collected from the patient s bloodstream and transferred to a manufacturing facility where the HSPCs are purified and CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing is performed. Following manufacturing, the edited cells, now called CTX001, are transferred back to the clinical site. Patients are preconditioned with a treatment that ablates their bone marrow prior to infusion of CTX001. Data presented to date support the profile of CTX001 as a potential one-time functional cure for people with severe SCD and TDT. CTX001 safety data to date is generally consistent with an autologous stem cell transplant and myeloablative conditioning. Enrollment is complete in the ongoing clinical trials evaluating CTX001 in severe SCD and TDT. We anticipate regulatory submissions of CTX001 in late 2022. APOL1-Mediated Kidney Disease Inherited mutations in the APOL1 gene play a causal role in the biology of severe proteinuric kidney diseases referred to as AMKD. Patients with AMKD inherit two mutations in the APOL1 gene resulting in significant proteinuria, and are characterized by a high risk of progression to end stage renal disease. Among patients with AMKD are those with the histological finding of FSGS and co-morbidities such as hypertension. In AMKD, the kidney s filtering units known as the glomerulus, and specifically the cells known as podocytes, are damaged, leading to leakage of protein into the urine, deterioration in kidney function, scarring, and, ultimately, permanent kidney damage. We are evaluating multiple novel small molecules that inhibit the function of APOL1 protein with the potential to treat APOL1-mediated kidney disease, including APOL1-mediated FSGS. In December 2021, we announced that patients with APOL1-mediated FSGS treated with VX-147 on top of standard of care achieved a statistically significant, substantial, and clinically meaningful reduction of proteinuria in a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial. VX-147 was well tolerated by patients. We anticipate completing our end of Phase 2 meetings with regulators and advancing VX-147 into pivotal development in people with APOL1-mediated kidney disease, including APOL1-mediated FSGS, in the first quarter of 2022. Type 1 Diabetes T1D is a chronic, metabolic disorder caused by an absence of insulin secretion by the beta cells in the pancreas. In patients with T1D, the insulin-producing islet cells of the pancreas are destroyed by the person s own immune system, resulting in a complete lack of insulin. While insulin therapy allows patients to live for decades with the disease, challenges of insulin therapy include inadequate control of blood sugar (both hyper- and hypo-glycemia), a substantial burden of care on patients and families, and long-term vascular complications. We are developing autologous, fully differentiated stem-cell derived islet cell therapies designed to replace insulin-producing islet cells that are destroyed in people with T1D, with the goal of delivering a functional cure. We are pursuing three programs for the transplant of functional islets into patients: transplantation of islet cells alone, using immunosuppression to protect the implanted cells, implantation of the islet cells inside a novel immunoprotective device, and 6 development of hypoimmune cells to optimize how we protect the implanted islet cells from the immune system. VX-880, our first program, is a stem cell-derived, allogeneic, fully differentiated, insulin-secreting islet cell replacement therapy, using standard immunosuppression to protect the implanted cells. Our Phase 1/2 clinical trial evaluating VX-880 as a potential treatment for T1D is ongoing at multiple clinical sites in the U.S. and a Clinical Trial Application has been approved in Canada. In January 2022, we announced positive Day 150 data for the first T1D patient in the Phase 1/2 clinical trial of VX-880, including restoration of islet cell function and rapid improvements in multiple measures. In this first patient, the safety of VX-880 was generally consistent with the immunosuppressive regimen used in this study. We will continue to dose patients in 2022. In our second program, the stem cell-derived, fully differentiated, insulin-secreting islet cells are encapsulated and implanted in an immunoprotective device. In our third program, research in earlier stages is directed toward developing hypoimmune cells to further optimize how we protect the implanted islet cells from the immune system. We are conducting IND-enabling studies for the cells and device program, and we expect to submit an IND for this program in 2022. Pain Pain can be debilitating and develop from a variety of pathophysiological and psychological conditions. Patients with pain can suffer from acute pain (for example, following surgery or an injury), neuropathic pain (when there is damage to a nerve), and musculoskeletal pain. Current treatments may not work well and can cause significant side effects and the risk of addiction. In addition, there is the practice of over- and mis-utilization, as well as underutilization of current pain medicines. The selective sodium channels NaV1.8 and NaV1.7 play unique roles in the pathophysiology of pain. We have discovered multiple inhibitors of NaV1.8 as potential treatments for pain and have obtained pharmacological validation of the potential of NaV1.8 inhibition with one of our first generation NaV1.8 inhibitors in three clinical pain models: acute pain, neuropathic pain, and musculoskeletal pain. VX-548 is a next generation NaV1.8 inhibitor. We are conducting two Phase 2 dose ranging acute pain clinical trials; one following bunionectomy surgery and the other following abdominoplasty surgery. We expect to have data from both clinical trials in the first quarter of 2022. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency AATD is a severe disease of the liver and lung, caused by inherited mutations in the SERPINA1 gene that encodes the AAT protein. People who inherit two mutant SERPINA1 alleles (one from each parent) develop AATD. Most people who develop AATD have two copies of a single mutation known as the Z allele. The Z-AAT mutation results in a protein folding defect in the AAT protein leading the misfolded AAT protein to accumulate in the liver (where it is produced at high levels), which can cause liver damage. As a result, the protein fails to reach other organs in adequate quantity and function, particularly the lungs, where the AAT protein s normal role is to protect the lungs from the digestive effects of certain proteases. The unchecked activity of these proteases can cause auto-digestion of lung tissue and may lead to emphysema or chronic pulmonary obstructive disease, and lung infections over time. Currently, there is no cure or treatment that targets the underlying cause of the disease in both the liver and the lung. Available treatments are aimed at transiently increasing levels of AAT in the blood but have no effect in the liver. Patients living with AATD typically experience recurring hospital visits and a shortened life expectancy. We seek to develop medicines that treat the underlying cause of AATD throughout the body. We have discovered multiple small molecule correctors that restore folding of the mutant AAT protein, leading to increased production of functional AAT protein. The restoration of AAT protein folding in the liver and of systemic AAT function has the potential to benefit both the liver and lung diseases caused by AATD. In June 2021, we announced that we had achieved our primary endpoint and established proof of mechanism in a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating our Z-AAT corrector, VX-864, for the treatment of people with AATD who have two copies of the Z mutation. However, because the magnitude of treatment effect was unlikely to translate into substantial clinical benefit, we decided not to advance VX-864 into late-stage development. We continue to discover and develop additional molecules with increased potential to correct AATD, and we plan to advance one or more novel small molecule Z-AAT correctors into the clinic in 2022. Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy and Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1 DMD and DM1 are inherited diseases that result in the weakening and breakdown of skeletal muscles over time. In 2019, we acquired Exonics and expanded our collaboration with CRISPR establishing preclinical programs to develop gene-editing therapies for DMD and DM1. We are focused on advancing gene-editing therapies aimed at treating the underlying cause of 7 DMD by restoring expression of near-full length dystrophin protein, and in DM1, by addressing the repeat expansion that causes the disease. Our collaboration with Affinia Therapeutics, Inc., or Affinia, enables access to a novel library of AAV capsids to support our ongoing research and development efforts in genetic therapies, including DMD and DM1. We also are exploring potentia