Item 1. Business 1 Information about our Executive Officers 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2. Properties 42 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 45 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 46 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 65 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 65 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 Item 9B. Other Information 69 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 74 Signatures 75 We, us, Vertex and the Company as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, a Massachusetts corporation, and its subsidiaries. Vertex, KALYDECO , ORKAMBI , SYMDEKO , SYMKEVI and TRIKAFTA are registered trademarks of Vertex. Other brands, names and trademarks contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. We use the brand name for our products when we refer to the product that has been approved and with respect to the indications on the approved label. Otherwise, including in discussions of our cystic fibrosis development programs, we refer to our compounds by their scientific (or generic) name or VX developmental designation. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We invest in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for people with serious diseases with a focus on specialty markets. Cystic Fibrosis Our goal is to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to all patients with cystic fibrosis, or CF, and will enhance the benefits that currently are being provided to patients taking our medicines. Our marketed medicines are TRIKAFTA (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor/ivacaftor) and KALYDECO (ivacaftor). We obtained approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for TRIKAFTA, our triple combination regimen, in October 2019. This approval increased the number of patients eligible for our medicines in the U.S. by approximately 6,000 and provided an additional treatment option for many patients who are also eligible for one of our previously approved products. We have submitted a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for this triple combination regimen. The FDA approval and the MAA filing were based on positive data from Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the triple combination regimen in patients 12 years of age or older (i) who have a copy of the F508del mutation in their cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, or CFTR, gene and a second mutation that results in minimal CFTR function, whom we refer to as F508del/Min patients, and (ii) who have two copies of the F508del mutation, whom we refer to as F508del homozygous patients. Our four medicines are collectively approved to treat approximately 60% of the 75,000 CF patients in North America, Europe and Australia. We are focused on obtaining approval for the triple combination in ex-U.S. markets for patients 12 years of age and older and evaluating our triple combination in younger patients, with the goal of having treatments for up to 90% of patients with CF. We are also pursuing other therapeutic approaches to address the remaining 10% of CF patients. Research and Development Our goal is to identify and develop new medicines by combining transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and in the science of therapeutics to advance human health. Small Molecule Programs Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency. In 2019, we initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate VX-814, our first investigational small molecule corrector for the treatment of alpha-1 antitrypsin, or AAT, deficiency. We expect to obtain data from this clinical trial in 2020. A Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate VX-864, our second investigational small molecule corrector for the treatment of AAT deficiency, is ongoing in healthy volunteers. APOL1-Mediated Kidney Diseases. In 2019, we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating VX-147 as a small molecule inhibitor of APOL1 function, a causal genetic factor in focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, or FSGS, and other proteinuric kidney diseases. In 2020, we expect to initiate a Phase 2 proof of concept clinical trial to evaluate VX-147. Pain. We believe that NaV1.8 inhibitors have the potential to provide an effective non-opioid treatment for pain. We expect to begin clinical development of a NaV1.8 inhibitor in the first half of 2020. Cell and Genetic Therapies Sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia. We are co-developing CTX001, an investigational gene-editing treatment for beta-thalassemia and sickle cell disease, with CRISPR Therapeutics AG, or CRISPR. Enrollment is ongoing in our two Phase 1/2 clinical trials to evaluate CTX001. In November 2019, we announced positive interim data from the first two patients with these hemoglobinopathies treated with the investigational CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing therapy CTX001 in our ongoing trials. Type 1 Diabetes. In 2019, we established a preclinical program to develop cell-based therapies for type 1 diabetes through our acquisition of Semma Therapeutics, Inc., or Semma. 1 Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD, and myotonic dystrophy type 1, or DM1. In 2019, we established preclinical genetic therapy programs for DMD and DM1, through our acquisition of Exonics Therapeutics, Inc., or Exonics, and the expansion of our collaboration with CRISPR. We plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and fostering scientific innovation, including by continuing to identify additional drug candidates through our internal research efforts and investing in business development transactions to access emerging technologies, drugs and drug candidates. CYSTIC FIBROSIS Background CF is a life-shortening genetic disease affecting approximately 75,000 people in North America, Europe and Australia. CF is caused by a defective or missing CFTR protein resulting from mutations in the CFTR gene. To develop CF, children must inherit two defective CFTR genes, which are referred to as alleles; one allele is inherited from each parent. The vast majority of patients with CF carry at least one of the two of the most prevalent mutations, the F508del mutation or the G551D mutation. The F508del mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the CFTR protein does not reach the surface of the cells in sufficient quantities. The G551D mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the defective protein reaches the surface of a cell but does not efficiently transport chloride ions across the cell membrane. The absence of working CFTR proteins results in poor flow of salt and water into and out of cells in a number of organs, including the lungs. As a result, thick, sticky mucus builds up and blocks the passages in many organs, leading to a variety of symptoms. In particular, mucus builds up and clogs the airways in the lungs, causing chronic lung infections and progressive lung damage. CFTR potentiators such as ivacaftor and VX-561 increase the probability that the CFTR protein channels open on the cell surface, increasing the flow of salt and water into and out of the cell. CFTR correctors, such as lumacaftor, tezacaftor, and elexacaftor, help CFTR proteins reach the cell surface. Our Medicines Our medicines, TRIKAFTA, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, ORKAMBI and KALYDECO, are collectively approved to treat approximately 60% of the 75,000 CF patients in North America, Europe and Australia. Our approved medicines, including information regarding the indication and age groups for which the medicine is approved, are set forth in the table below. Product Scientific Name Region/Initial Approval Indication Eligible Age Group elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor U.S. (2019) CF patients with at least one F508del mutation 12 years of age and older tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor U.S. (2018) CF patients (i) homozygous for the F508del mutation or (ii) with at least one mutation that is responsive to tezacaftor/ivacaftor 6 years of age and older tezacaftor/ivacaftor European Union (2018) CF patients (i) homozygous for the F508del mutation or (ii) with one copy of the F508del mutation and one copy of certain mutations that result in residual CFTR activity 12 years of age and older lumacaftor/ivacaftor U.S. (2015) CF patients homozygous for the F508del mutation 2 years of age and older lumacaftor/ivacaftor European Union (2015) CF patients homozygous for the F508del mutation 2 years of age and older ivacaftor U.S. (2012) CF patients with G551D and other specified mutations 6 months of age and older ivacaftor European Union (2012) CF patients with G551D and other specified mutations 6 months of age and older 2 In addition to the European Union and the United States, we market our products in additional countries, including Australia and Canada. We continuously seek to increase the number of patients eligible to receive our current medicines through label expansions and the approval of new medicines. Activities in support of these efforts include: TRIKAFTA In October 2019, we received approval from the FDA for TRIKAFTA for the treatment of patients with CF 12 years of age and older who have at least one copy of the F508del mutation. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the MAA we submitted for the triple combination of elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor in patients 12 years of age and older was validated by the EMA. A Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating the triple combination of elexacaftor, tezacaftor and ivacaftor in children six to 11 years of age who are F508del homozygous or who have one copy of the F508del mutation and one minimum function mutation is ongoing. SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI In June 2019, we obtained approval for SYMDEKO in the United States for children 6 to 11 years of age. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we submitted an application to the EMA to extend the indication of tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor to patients 6 to 11 years of age. ORKAMBI In January 2019, we obtained approval for ORKAMBI in the European Union for children 2 to 5 years of age. KALYDECO In April 2019, we obtained approval for KALYDECO in the United States for infants 6 to 12 months of age. In December 2019, we obtained approval for KALYDECO in the European Union for infants 6 to 12 months of age. Drug Candidates We are evaluating VX-121, an additional next-generation corrector, and VX-561, a potentiator, in Phase 2 clinical development. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS We invest in research and development in order to discover and develop transformative medicines for people with serious diseases. Our strategy is to combine transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and the science of therapeutics in order to identify and develop new medicines. Our approach to drug discovery historically focused on the research and development of small molecule drugs, which has been validated through our success in moving novel small molecule drug candidates into clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals for TRIKAFTA, KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI for the treatment of CF and INCIVEK (telaprevir) for the treatment of hepatitis C infection. Over the last several years, we have expanded our research capabilities to include additional innovative therapeutic approaches with a focus on cell and genetic therapies, including: our collaboration with CRISPR in hemoglobinopathies and other diseases; our establishment of preclinical genetic therapy programs for DMD and DM1, through our acquisition of Exonics; and our establishment of a preclinical program to develop cell-based therapies for type 1 diabetes through our acquisition of Semma. The experience we gained developing medicines for CF and our analysis of research and development programs conducted by other companies in our industry have shaped a disciplined strategy that guides our investments in research and development and external innovation that focuses on: transformative treatments for life-threatening diseases with a high unmet medical need; 3 targets validated as playing a causal role in the human biology of a disease; innovative approaches to addressing those targets; biological assays and clinical biomarkers that we believe will be predictive of clinical responses; and efficient clinical and regulatory paths to bring new medicines to patients. In addition to continuing our research to identify additional drug candidates for the treatment of CF, we are focusing our research and development efforts on developing products for the treatment of serious diseases including AAT deficiency, APOL1-mediated FSGS, pain, sickle cell disease, beta-thalassemia, DMD, DM1 and type 1 diabetes. To augment our internal programs, we seek to acquire businesses and technologies and to collaborate with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations as needed to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest as well as to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. We have established such relationships with organizations around the world and intend to extend and leverage that experience to further our research efforts to discover transformational medicines for serious diseases. We will continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions and collaborations that may be similar to or different from the transactions that we have engaged in previously. Small Molecule Programs Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency AAT deficiency is caused by mutations in the SERPINA1 gene that produces AAT protein. To develop AAT deficiency, people must inherit two mutant SERPINA1 alleles (one from each parent). The mutations result in a defect in the AAT protein in which the protein does not fold correctly. This folding defect causes the AAT protein to accumulate in the liver (where it is produced), which can cause liver damage. As a result, the protein fails to reach other organs in adequate quantity and function, particularly in the lungs, where its normal role is to protect them from the digestive effects of certain proteases. The unchecked activity of these proteases can cause auto-digestion of lung tissue and may lead over time to emphysema or chronic pulmonary obstructive disease, and lung infections. Currently, there is no cure or treatment that targets the underlying cause of the disease in both the liver and the lung. Available treatments are aimed at transiently increasing levels of AAT in the blood, but have no effect in the liver. Patients living with AAT deficiency typically experience recurring hospital visits and a shortened life expectancy. We are seeking to develop medicines to treat AAT deficiency. In the laboratory, we have discovered multiple small molecule correctors that restore normal folding of the mutant AAT protein, with the potential to treat both the liver and lung diseases caused by AAT deficiency. In 2019, we began a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating VX-814 as a potential treatment for AAT deficiency. In addition, in 2019, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating VX-864, our second investigational small molecule corrector for the treatment of AAT deficiency, in healthy volunteers. APOL1-Mediated Kidney Diseases Inherited mutations in the APOL1 gene play a causal role in the biology of FSGS as well as other kidney diseases. FSGS is a rare disease that attacks the kidney s filtering units, causing leakage of protein into the urine followed later by deterioration in kidney function, scarring, and, ultimately, permanent kidney damage. FSGS is a leading cause of nephrotic syndrome in children and kidney failure in adults. We have discovered multiple novel small molecules that inhibit the function of APOL1 protein with the goal of treating APOL1-mediated FSGS. In 2019, we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial for VX-147, our first investigational oral small molecule medicine for the treatment of FSGS and other serious kidney diseases. We expect to begin a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate VX-147 in 2020. Pain Pain can develop from a variety of pathophysiological and psychological conditions. Patients with pain can suffer from acute pain (for example, following surgery or an injury), neuropathic pain (when there is damage to a nerve), and musculoskeletal pain. Current treatments may not work well or cause significant side effects. In addition, there is the potential for addiction and the practice of over- and mis-utilization, as well as underutilization of current pain medicines. Vertex has discovered multiple inhibitors of the sodium channel 1.8, or NaV1.8, as potential treatments for pain. Consistent with our research strategy, the Nav1.8 protein is a validated target for pain based both on inherited mutations that cause pain syndromes as well as through our own clinical trial data. Specifically, we have obtained positive results from three separate Phase 2 clinical trials evaluating VX-150, a NaV1.8 inhibitor, in patients with three different pain conditions: acute, 4 neuropathic and musculoskeletal pain. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on discovering, developing and advancing inhibitors of NaV1.8 as a potential treatment for pain. In the first quarter of 2020, we announced the discontinuation of Phase 1 development of VX-961 and that we expect to begin clinical development of an additional molecule in the first half of 2020. Out-licenses Our research team has also discovered several additional first-in-class compounds that were out-licensed to collaborators consistent with our corporate strategy. Several of these compounds are continuing in clinical development. Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Janssen, is developing pimodivir, a compound we discovered and licensed to Janssen in 2014, as a potential treatment for the influenza A virus. Janssen is conducting Phase 3 clinical trials of pimodivir in combination with standard of care treatment in patients who are hospitalized or are outpatients at a higher risk of influenza-related complications. Cell and Genetic Therapies Sickle Cell Disease and Beta-Thalassemia Sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia are hemoglobinopathies, a group of inherited blood disorders that result from gene mutations that alter hemoglobin, a protein in red blood cells that delivers oxygen and removes carbon dioxide throughout the body. Sickle cell disease is caused by the change of a single amino acid in the hemoglobin gene that causes red cells to change shape in settings of low oxygen. These sickled cells block blood flow and can lead to severe pain, organ damage and shortened life span. Treatment is typically focused on relieving pain and minimizing organ damage, requiring medication and, for some patients, monthly blood transfusions and frequent hospital visits. Beta-thalassemia is caused by mutations in hemoglobin that lead to severe anemia in patients, which causes fatigue and shortness of breath. In infants, beta-thalassemia causes failure to thrive, jaundice and feeding problems. Complications of beta-thalassemia can lead to an enlarged spleen, liver and/or heart, misshapen bones and delayed puberty. Treatment for beta-thalassemia varies depending on the disease severity for each patient, with severely affected patients requiring regular blood transfusions, as frequently as every two to four weeks. Blood transfusions eventually cause an unhealthy buildup of iron in the patient, leading to organ damage. We are co-developing CTX001, an investigational gene-editing treatment, for the treatment of hemoglobinopathies, with CRISPR. We are seeking to develop a CRISPR/Cas9-based therapy to treat both beta-thalassemia and sickle cell disease. In November 2019, we announced positive, interim data from the first two patients with severe hemoglobinopathies treated with the investigational CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing therapy, CTX001, in ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trials. One patient with severe sickle cell disease received CTX001 in mid-2019 and data for this patient reflect four months of safety and efficacy follow-up. One patient with transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia received CTX001 in the first quarter of 2019 and data for this patient reflect nine months of safety and efficacy follow-up. These trials are ongoing and additional patients have been enrolled. Type 1 Diabetes Type 1 diabetes, or T1D, is a chronic, metabolic disorder caused by an absence of insulin secretion by the beta cells in the pancreas. In patients with T1D the person s own immune system attacks the insulin-producing islet cells of the pancreas, resulting in a complete lack of insulin. While insulin therapy allows patients to live for decades with the disease, challenges of insulin therapy include inadequate control of blood sugar (both hyper- and hypo-glycemia), burden of care on patients and families, and long-term vascular complications. In 2019, we acquired a preclinical program to develop cell-based therapies for T1D through our acquisition of Semma. We plan to advance this program into clinical development in T1D patients in late 2020 or early 2021. Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, or DMD, and myotonic dystrophy type 1, or DM1, are inherited diseases that result in the weakening and breakdown of skeletal muscles over time. In 2019, we acquired preclinical programs to develop genetic therapies for DMD and DM1 through our acquisition of Exonics and the expansion of our collaboration with CRISPR. 5 COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR MEDICINES Commercial Organization Our commercial organization focuses on supporting sales of TRIKAFTA, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, ORKAMBI and KALYDECO in the markets where these products have been approved. Our sales and marketing organizations are responsible for promoting products to health care providers and obtaining reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, including governmental organizations in the United States and ex-U.S. markets. Our U.S. field-based CF commercial team is comprised of a small number of individuals to support commercialization of our medicines for CF. We focus our CF marketing efforts in the United States on a relatively small number of physicians and health care professionals who write most of the prescriptions for CF medicines. Many of these physicians and health care professionals are located at a limited number of accredited centers in the United States focused on the treatment of CF. In international markets, we have small sales forces that support KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI in jurisdictions where these products are approved. We market our products through personal interactions with physicians and allied health care professionals. In addition, our government affairs and public policy group advocates for policies that promote life sciences innovation and increase awareness of the diseases on which we are focusing, with state and federal legislatures, government agencies, public health officials and other policy-makers. We also have established programs in the United States that provide our products to qualified uninsured or underinsured patients at no charge or at a reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria. Reimbursement Sales of our products depend, to a large degree, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed health care organizations. Increasingly, these third-party payors are becoming stricter in the ways they evaluate medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit our revenues. Decisions by third-party payors to not cover a product could reduce physician usage of the product. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities, which provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan likely will be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research was to be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes of Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures were to be made to the U.S. Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of our products. In the future, it is possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits of a competitor s product could adversely affect the sales of our products. If third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 6 The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, was enacted in March 2010 and was designed to expand coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall health care costs. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA is designed to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs, impose an annual fee on branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare Part D program. In Europe and many other foreign jurisdictions, the success of our products depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because patients are unable to access prescription pharmaceutical products that are not reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating reimbursement rates in foreign countries can delay the commercialization of a pharmaceutical product and generally results in a reimbursement rate that is lower than the net price that companies can obtain for the same product in the United States. In some countries, such as Germany, commercial sales of a new product may begin while the reimbursement rate that a company will receive is under discussion. In other countries, a company must complete the reimbursement discussions prior to the commencement of commercial supply of the pharmaceutical product. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the member states of the European Union can restrict the range of drugs for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and can control the prices of drugs for human use. In addition, many ex-U.S. government payers require companies to provide health economic assessments of products, which are evaluated by government agencies set up for this purpose. A member state may approve a specific price for the drug or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the total amount of money that a company may receive for supply of a drug. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of mandatory discoun