Item 1. Business 1 Information about our Executive Officers 28 Item 1A. Risk Factors 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 62 Item 1C . Cybersecurity 62 Item 2. Properties 63 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 63 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 63 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 64 Item 6. [Reserved] 65 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 66 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 84 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 85 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 88 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11. Executive Compensation 89 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 89 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 92 Signatures 93 Vertex, we, us and our as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, a Massachusetts corporation, and its subsidiaries. VERTEX , KALYDECO , ORKAMBI , SYMDEKO , SYMKEVI , TRIKAFTA , KAFTRIO , and CASGEVY are registered trademarks of Vertex. Other brands, names and trademarks contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. We use the brand name for our products when we refer to the product that has been approved and with respect to the indications on the approved label. Otherwise, including in discussions of our cystic fibrosis, sickle cell disease, and beta thalassemia development programs, we refer to our product candidates by their scientific (or generic) name or VX developmental designation. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipates, may, forecasts, expects, intends, plans, potentially, believes, seeks, estimates, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Please refer to Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1A, for a discussion of our forward-looking statements and the related risks and uncertainties of such statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a global biotechnology company that invests in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for people with serious diseases, with a focus on specialty markets. We have four approved medicines that treat the underlying cause of cystic fibrosis ( CF ), a life-threatening genetic disease, and one approved therapy that treats severe sickle cell disease ( SCD ) and transfusion dependent beta thalassemia ( TDT ), life shortening inherited blood disorders. Our pipeline includes clinical-stage programs in CF, sickle cell disease, beta thalassemia, acute and neuropathic pain, APOL1-mediated kidney disease, type 1 diabetes, myotonic dystrophy type 1 and alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. Our goal in CF is to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to all people with CF and will enhance the benefits currently provided to people taking our medicines. Our marketed medicines that treat people with CF are TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor/ivacaftor) and KALYDECO (ivacaftor). Collectively, our four marketed CF medicines are being used to treat nearly three quarters of the approximately 92,000 people with CF in North America, Europe and Australia. Through label expansions, approval of new medicines, and expanded reimbursement, we are focused on increasing the number of people with CF who are eligible and able to receive our medicines. We are evaluating our current medicines in additional patient populations, including younger children, with the goal of having small molecule treatments for all people who have at least one mutation in their cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator ( CFTR ) gene that is responsive to our CFTR modulators. We have completed Phase 3 development of a triple combination of vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor, which has demonstrated the potential to provide additional clinical benefits, as well as once-daily dosing, to people with CF who have at least one mutation in their CFTR gene that is responsive to CFTR modulators. This regimen also carries a lower royalty burden. We plan to submit global regulatory filings for this new triple combination regimen by mid-2024. In addition, we have initiated the multiple ascending dose portion of the Phase 1/2 clinical trial of VX-522, an investigational messenger ribonucleic acid ( mRNA ) therapeutic we are developing in collaboration with Moderna, Inc. ( Moderna ). We expect to share data from this clinical trial in late 2024 or early 2025. VX-522 has the potential to benefit the more than 5,000 people with CF in North America, Europe and Australia who do not make full-length CFTR protein and cannot benefit from CFTR modulators. In addition, we are continuing our research and development of CFTR modulators, with the aim of developing best-in-class medicines that can help more patients achieve carrier levels of CFTR function, and we are investigating additional potential treatments for people with CF who do not make full-length CFTR protein and cannot benefit from CFTR modulators. In SCD and TDT, our goal is to eliminate vaso-occlusive crises ( VOCs ) (as well as vaso-occlusive organ damage) and transfusion dependence, respectively. Our marketed therapy is CASGEVY (exagamglogene autotemcel, or exa-cel ), an ex-vivo, non-viral CRISPR/Cas9 gene-edited cell therapy, which has been approved in the United States ( U.S. ), the European Union ( E.U. ), the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia ( Saudi Arabia ), and the Kingdom of Bahrain ( Bahrain ) for treatment of SCD and TDT. We estimate approximately 35,000 people with severe SCD or TDT could be eligible for CASGEVY in the U.S. and Europe, with additional eligible people in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. In connection with our serial innovation approach, we are progressing preclinical assets for gentler conditioning for CASGEVY, which could broaden the eligible patient population, and we are investigating small molecules for the potential treatment of SCD and TDT. In January 2024, we announced positive results from our Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating VX-548, a non-opioid investigational NaV 1.8 inhibitor, for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acute pain. We plan to submit for regulatory approval of VX-548 in moderate-to-severe acute pain in the U.S. by mid-2024. In addition, in December 2023, we announced positive results from the Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating VX-548 for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy ( DPN ), a type of peripheral neuropathic pain. We expect to advance VX-548 into pivotal development in DPN in 2024. 1 The following chart represents our clinical-stage programs, and select pre-clinical programs: Beyond CF, SCD, TDT and pain, we are advancing programs across multiple disease areas and modalities, including: APOL1-Mediated Kidney Disease. We are evaluating inaxaplin, formerly known as VX-147, our investigational small molecule for the treatment of APOL1-mediated kidney disease ( AMKD ) in a Phase 2/3 clinical trial . We expect to select a dose and move to the Phase 3 portion of the clinical trial in the first quarter of 2024. Type 1 Diabetes. We are evaluating VX-880, an investigational allogeneic stem-cell derived, fully differentiated islet cell therapy, for the treatment of type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in which patients also receive immunosuppressive therapy to protect the islet cells from immune rejection. We have completed enrollment in Part C of this clinical trial. VX-880 is on a protocol-specified pause, pending review of the totality of the data by the independent data monitoring committee and global regulators. Our second clinical program in T1D, VX-264, in which the implanted islet cells are encapsulated in an immunoprotective device, is ongoing. We have completed Part A of this Phase 1/2 clinical trial and we have initiated Part B in multiple centers and countries. Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1. We are exploring multiple approaches to address the underlying causal biology for myotonic dystrophy type 1 ( DM1 ), including small molecules. We initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trial evaluating VX-670, an oligonucleotide-based approach that we have in-licensed from Entrada Therapeutics, Inc. ( Entrada ). The clinical trial is active and enrolling in Canada and will initiate in the U.K. in the near term. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency. We continue to enroll and dose healthy volunteers in Phase 1 clinical trials for VX-634 and VX-668, our next-wave investigational molecules with significantly improved potency and drug-like properties as compared to our previous alpha-1 antitrypsin ( AAT ) correctors. In addition to the programs listed above, we have additional research programs aimed at diseases that fit our research and development strategy and follow-on programs in our existing disease areas in accord with our serial innovation approach. Our core strategy is to discover and develop innovative medicines by combining transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and the science of therapeutics to dramatically advance human health. That strategy focuses on validated targets that address causal human biology, predictive lab assays and clinical biomarkers, rapid paths to registration and approval, and product candidates that hold the potential for transformative patient benefit. Our approach includes advancing multiple compounds or therapies from each program into early clinical trials to obtain patient data that can inform selection of the most promising therapies for later stage development as well as inform our ongoing discovery and development efforts. We aim to rapidly follow our first-in-class therapies that achieve proof-of-concept with potential best-in-class candidates. We plan to continue investing to advance our strategy, fostering scientific innovation by identifying additional product candidates through internal research efforts, and investing in business development transactions to access 2 emerging technologies, products and product candidates. Our serial innovation approach is intended to increase the likelihood of successfully bringing transformative medicines to patients and to provide durable clinical and commercial success. Our CF medicines are the exemplar of this strategy, as we continue to reach more people with CF than ever before through label expansions, approvals of new medicines and expanded reimbursement. In addition, we have obtained historic approvals for CASGEVY for the treatment of SCD and TDT and are working towards broad access for eligible patients to this potentially curative treatment option. We continue to advance our broad and diverse pipeline and prepare for potential near-term global commercial launches in new disease areas, and further strengthen our financial profile. 3 MARKETED PRODUCTS Information regarding our marketed products, including information regarding the disease area, initial approval and age group for which the therapy is approved, are set forth in the table below. Disease Initial Approval Eligible Age Group (1) Cystic Fibrosis 2019 2 years of age and older 2020 2 years of age and older 2018 6 years of age and older 2018 6 years of age and older 2015 1 year of age and older 2012 1 month of age and older Sickle Cell Disease and Transfusion-Dependent Beta Thalassemia 2023 12 years of age and older (1) Specifies the youngest eligible age group in any major market. CF Our CF medicines are collectively being used by nearly three quarters of the approximately 92,000 people with CF in North America, Europe, and Australia. CF is a life-shortening genetic disease caused by a defective or missing CFTR protein resulting from mutations in the CFTR gene. To develop CF, children must inherit two defective CFTR genes, which are referred to as alleles; one allele is inherited from each parent. The vast majority of patients with CF carry at least one F508del mutation. The F508del mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the CFTR protein does not reach the surface of the cells in sufficient quantities and does not adequately transport chloride ions. The absence of working CFTR protein results in poor flow of salt and water into and out of cells in a number of organs, including the lungs. As a result, thick, sticky mucus builds up and blocks the passages in many organs, leading to a variety of symptoms. In particular, mucus builds up and clogs the airways in the lungs, causing chronic lung infections and progressive lung damage. CFTR potentiators, such as ivacaftor, increase the probability that the CFTR protein channels open on the cell surface, increasing the flow of salt and water into and out of the cell. CFTR correctors, such as lumacaftor, tezacaftor, and elexacaftor, increase the proper protein processing and folding of mutant CFTR proteins, such that a larger amount of 4 functional CFTR protein reaches the cell surface. Our CFTR regimens target the underlying cause of disease and have been shown to improve CFTR protein function in people with CF, and as such have been shown to provide transformative benefit for people living with CF. Our CF medicines are used by patients in over 60 countries, and TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO is now approved and reimbursed or accessible in more than 40 of these countries. In addition to the E.U. and the U.S., we market our products in additional countries, including the U.K., Australia, Canada, Brazil and Switzerland. We continue to increase the number of patients eligible and able to receive our current medicines through label expansions and expanded reimbursement. Sickle Cell Disease and Transfusion-Dependent Beta Thalassemia CASGEVY, our therapy for SCD and TDT, was recently approved in the U.S., the E.U., the U.K. Saudi Arabia, and Bahrain. SCD and TDT are hemoglobinopathies, a group of inherited blood disorders that result from gene mutations that alter hemoglobin, a protein in red blood cells that delivers oxygen throughout the body. We estimate approximately 35,000 people with severe SCD or TDT could be eligible for CASGEVY in the U.S. and Europe, with additional eligible people in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. SCD is caused by the change of a single amino acid in the -hemoglobin gene that causes red cells to change shape in settings of low oxygen. These sickled cells block blood flow and can lead to severe pain, organ damage, and shortened life span. Treatment is typically focused on relieving pain and minimizing organ damage, requiring medication and, for some patients, monthly blood transfusions and frequent hospital visits. Beta thalassemia is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the -hemoglobin gene that lead to severe anemia in patients, which causes fatigue and shortness of breath. In infants, beta thalassemia causes failure to thrive, jaundice, and feeding problems. Complications of beta thalassemia can lead to an enlarged spleen, liver and/or heart, misshapen bones and delayed puberty. Treatment for beta thalassemia varies depending on the disease severity for each patient. Patients with TDT, the most severe form of the disease, require regular blood transfusions, as frequently as every two to four weeks. Repeated blood transfusions eventually cause an unhealthy buildup of iron in the patient, leading to organ damage. CASGEVY, our ex-vivo, non-viral CRISPR/Cas9-based gene-editing therapy, was developed for the treatment of severe SCD and TDT, with our collaborator, CRISPR Therapeutics AG ( CRISPR ). Patients first undergo a treatment at an authorized treatment center (an ATC ) that mobilizes a population of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells ( HSPC ) from the bone marrow into the bloodstream. Blood cells are collected from the patient s bloodstream and transferred to a manufacturing facility where the HSPCs are purified and CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing is performed. The gene editing procedure results in a precise and specific gene edit in a non-coding intron of the BCL11A gene. After the HSPC cells are returned to the patient and engraft, the gene edit results in significant increases in the levels of fetal hemoglobin erythrocytes, thereby reducing or eliminating symptoms associated with disease. Following manufacturing, the edited cells, now called CASGEVY, are transferred back to the ATC. Patients are preconditioned with a myeloablative conditioning treatment that ablates their bone marrow prior to infusion of CASGEVY. Efficacy data presented to date support the profile of CASGEVY as a potential one-time functional cure for people with severe SCD and TDT. Our global launch strategy for CASGEVY is focused on disease education and awareness for patients, caregivers, health care professionals, payors, and policymakers, as well as engagement with the scientific and medical community regarding CASGEVY clinical data. Our strategy is also focused on activation of ATCs to ensure their readiness to treat patients and establishing a globally-enabled manufacturing and supply chain to meet patient demand. In addition, our approach concentrates on achieving access for patients through reimbursement agreements with governments and commercial payors, as well as through early access programs where applicable. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS We invest in research and development to discover and develop transformative medicines for people with serious diseases, with a focus on specialty markets. Our research strategy is to combine transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and in the science of therapeutics to dramatically advance human health. We focus on: disease areas with known causal human biology; targets validated by causal human biology; 5 predictive lab assays and clinical biomarkers; potential for transformative benefit regardless of modality; and efficient path to registration and approval. Our development-stage product candidates for the treatment of the serious diseases on which we are focused, include CF, SCD, TDT, acute and neuropathic pain, AMKD, T1D, DM1, and AAT deficiency ( AATD ). In pursuit of serial innovation, our research and development approach includes advancing multiple candidates into clinical trials and pursuing multiple modalities with the goal of bringing first-in-class and/or best-in-class therapies to patients. Our research and development strategy has been validated through our success in moving novel product candidates into clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals for TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI for the treatment of CF, and CASGEVY for the treatment of SCD and TDT. Our approach to drug discovery has been further validated by our successful demonstration of clinical proof-of-concept in four additional disease areas: in acute and neuropathic pain with our NaV1.8 inhibitors, in AMKD with inaxaplin, and in T1D with a stem cell-derived islet cell therapy. Over the last several years, this strategy has led us to expand our capabilities to include additional innovative therapeutic modalities with a focus on cell and genetic therapies, which have the potential to treat, and in some cases, cure diseases by addressing the underlying cause of the disease. CASGEVY, recently approved in multiple geographies, including the U.S., is one such example. We continue to make significant internal investments in cell and genetic therapies. These investments include the development of a Boston-based campus for research and current Good Manufacturing Practices ( cGMP ) clinical manufacturing capabilities dedicated to our portfolio of cell and genetic therapy technologies and teams. To augment our internal programs, we acquire businesses and technologies and collaborate with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations to advance research in our disease areas of interest, as well as to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. Our internal and external innovation approaches are based on the same strategy, which enables us to effectively integrate and execute on new internal capabilities as we invest in external innovation. Our investments in external innovation include our collaboration with CRISPR, which resulted in the successful development and approval of CASGEVY and the establishment and advancement of other pipeline programs, including our T1D program through our acquisition of Semma Therapeutics, Inc. ( Semma ), our mRNA therapeutic, VX-522, for treatment of CF through our collaboration with Moderna, and our intracellular therapeutics for DM1, including VX-670, through our collaboration with Entrada. CF We have completed the Phase 3 global program evaluating a once-daily investigational triple combination of vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor. Our Phase 3 program consisted of two 52-week randomized, controlled clinical trials, SKYLINE 102 and SKYLINE 103, which evaluated the safety and efficacy of the new combination relative to TRIKAFTA in approximately 950 people with CF 12 years of age and older, and the single arm RIDGELINE trial, evaluating vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor in children with CF 6 to 11 years of age. In February 2024, we announced positive data from this Phase 3 program. The data from these trials demonstrate that this triple combination provides additional benefit beyond TRIKAFTA for people with CF who have the F508del mutation on at least one allele that is CFTR modulator responsive. This new triple combination regimen was safe and well-tolerated in all three clinical trials. We expect to submit global regulatory filings for this triple combination by mid-2024, including a New Drug Application ( NDA ) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ), using a priority review voucher, and Marketing Authorization Applications to the EMA and Health Canada, for people with CF 6 years of age and older. We estimate that approximately 90% of people with CF could benefit from vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor. We continue to identify and develop additional CFTR modulators with the goal of developing best-in-class medicines that can help more patients who respond to CFTR modulators achieve carrier levels of CFTR activity. In order to treat people with CF who do not make full-length CFTR protein, and as a result, cannot benefit from our CFTR modulators, we are researching and developing genetic therapies, such as mRNA, and gene-editing approaches to CF. In collaboration with Moderna, we are developing VX-522, a CF mRNA therapeutic designed to treat the underlying cause of CF for these people by enabling cells in the lungs to produce functional CFTR protein. At the end of 2023, we completed dosing in the single ascending dose part of the Phase 1/2 clinical trial for VX-522 in people with CF, and we initiated the 6 multiple ascending dose part of the clinical trial. We expect to share data from this clinical trial in late 2024 or early 2025. Sickle Cell Disease and Transfusion-Dependent Beta Thalassemia Two global Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating CASGEVY in people 5 to 11 years of age with severe SCD (the CLIMB SCD-151 clinical trial) and TDT (the CLIMB THAL-141 clinical trial) are ongoing. We have completed enrollment in these two clinical trials. In connection with our serial innovation approach, we are working on preclinical assets for myeloablative conditioning agents with improved tolerability profiles which could be used in connection with treatment with CASGEVY, significantly broadening the eligible SCD and TDT patient population. In addition, we also are investigating small molecules for the potential treatment of SCD and TDT. Pain Pain can be debilitating and develop from a variety of conditions. Patients with pain can be categorized as suffering from one of three types of pain: acute pain, chronic neuropathic pain (caused primarily by damage or dysfunction of peripheral nerves), or chronic musculoskeletal pain (caused primarily by damage to muscle, joints or bone). Acute pain usually resolves in days or weeks (for example, following surgery or an injury), while chronic pain generally lasts greater than three months due to unresolved or ongoing damage to tissues. Currently, some available treatments have limited efficacy, others cause significant side effects and/or carry the risk of addiction. Because of these challenges, over- and under-utilization, as well as mis-utilization, of current pain medicines may occur. The sodium channels NaV1.8 and NaV1.7 play important roles in the physiology of pain. We have discovered multiple selective small molecule inhibitors of NaV1.8 as potential treatments for pain. We obtained pharmacological validation of NaV1.8 inhibition with a first generation NaV1.8 inhibitor in all three clinical pain types: acute pain, chronic neuropathic pain, and chronic musculoskeletal pain. In acute pain, we completed two randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials for our lead compound, VX-548, evaluating patients with moderate-to-severe acute pain following abdominoplasty or bunionectomy surgery. We also completed a single-arm clinical trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of VX-548 in multiple other types of moderate-to-severe acute pain. In January 2024, we announced positive results from these clinical trials. The clinical trials demonstrated that treatment with VX-548 led to statistically significant improvement on the primary endpoint of the time-weighted sum of the pain intensity difference compared to placebo, as well as clinically meaningful reduction in pain from baseline on the numeric pain rating scale after abdominoplasty surgery or bunionectomy surgery. VX-548 was safe and well tolerated in all three Phase 3 studies. We also announced our plans to submit an NDA to the FDA by mid-2024, with the goal of securing a broad label for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acute pain. In neuropathic pain, in December 2023, we announced results from a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating VX-548 in people with DPN, a common form of peripheral neuropathic pain. The clinical trial demonstrated that treatment with VX-548 led to a statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction in the primary endpoint of change from baseline in the weekly average of daily pain intensity on a numeric pain rating scale at week 12. VX-548 was generally well-tolerated at all doses tested in the clinical trial. We also announced our plans to advance VX-548 for the treatment of DPN into pivotal development, with the ultimate goal of securing a broad label for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain. In support of this broad peripheral neuropathic pain indication we seek, in December 2023, we initiated a second Phase 2 clinical trial in lumbosacral radiculopathy, which is pain caused by impairment or injury to nerve roots in the area of the lumbar spine, another type of peripheral neuropathic pain. There are no approved medicines in the U.S. that are labeled for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain. In keeping with our serial innovation approach, we have also completed a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating an oral formulation of VX-993, a next generation NaV1.8 inhibitor, and we anticipate initiating Phase 2 clinical trials evaluating VX-993 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acute pain and for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain in 2024. We also anticipate initiating a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating an intravenous formulation of VX-993 in 2024. Additionally, we are advancing multiple NaV1.8 inhibitors and NaV1.7 inhibitors through research and earlier stages of development for pain. 7 APOL1-Mediated Kidney Disease Inherited mutations in the APOL1 gene play a causal role in the biology of severe proteinuric kidney diseases referred to as AMKD. In AMKD, the kidney s filtering units known as the glomeruli, and within them the cells known as podocytes, are damaged, leading to leakage of protein into the urine, deterioration in kidney function, scarring, and, ultimately, permanent kidney damage. Patients with proteinuria who inherited two copies of the APOL1 mutations demonstrate rapid progression to end-stage kidney disease. Some patients with AMKD have the histological finding of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis ( FSGS ) and co-morbidities such as hypertension. We are evaluating multiple novel small molecules that inhibit the function of the mutant APOL1 protein with the potential to treat APOL1-mediated kidney disease. In a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial, patients with APOL1-mediated FSGS treated with inaxaplin on top of standard of care achieved a statistically significant, substantial, and clinically meaningful reduction of proteinuria. In this clinical trial, inaxaplin was well tolerated by patients. Based on this positive Phase 2 data, we initiated pivotal development of inaxaplin in a single Phase 2/3 adaptive clinical trial in patients with AMKD in 2022. E nrollment in the Phase 2B portion of the Phase 2/3 clinical trial has completed. We expect to select a dose and begin the Phase 3 portion of the clinical trial in the first quarter of 2024. Type 1 Diabetes T1D is a chronic me