Item 1. BUSINESS 1 M arket Discussion 1 B usiness Strategy 6 H uman Capital Resources 6 E n v ironmental Regulations and Related Considerations 9 C orporate Information 17 Available Information 17 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 18 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 44 Item 1C. CYBERSECURITY 45 Item 2. PROPERTIES 46 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 48 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 48 PART II. Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 49 Item 6. [RESERVED] 50 Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 50 Significant Activities and Events, and Items Influencing Future Performance 50 C ritical Accounting Estimates 55 R esults of Operations 59 F inancial Condition 67 C ommit ments and Contingencies 72 Changes in Accounting Standards 72 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 73 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 77 Consolidated Statements of Operations 79 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 79 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 80 Consolidated Balance Sheets 82 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 84 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements: 85 1. Business and Significant Accounting Policies 85 2. Transaction Agreement 91 3. Development of Generation Facilities 93 4. Retirement of Generation Facilities 94 5. Revenue 95 6. Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets and Liabilities 99 7. Income Taxes 102 8. Tax Receivable Agreement Obligation 105 i Table of Contents 9. Earnings Per Share 107 10. Accounts Receivable Financing 107 11. Collateral Financing Agreement with Affiliate 108 12. Debt 109 13. Leases 117 14. Commitments and Contingencies 119 15. Equity 128 16. Fair Value Measurements 132 17. Commodity and Other Derivative Contractual Assets and Liabilities 135 18. Pension and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (OPEB) 139 19. Stock-Based Compensation 146 20. Related Party Transactions 148 21. Segment Information 149 22. Supplementary Financial Information 150 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 157 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 157 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 159 Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTION 159 PART III. Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 160 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 160 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 160 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 160 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 160 PART IV. Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 161 Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 179 Signatures 180 ii Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below. Current and Former Related Entities: Ambit Ambit Holdings, LLC, and/or its subsidiaries (d/b/a Ambit), depending on context Crius Crius Energy Trust and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context Dynegy Dynegy Inc., and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context Dynegy Energy Services Dynegy Energy Services, LLC and Dynegy Energy Services (East), LLC (each d/b/a Dynegy, Better Buy Energy, Brighten Energy, Honor Energy and True Fit Energy), indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of Vistra, that are REPs in certain areas of MISO and PJM, respectively, and are engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers. Homefield Energy Illinois Power Marketing Company (d/b/a Homefield Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to municipal customers Luminant subsidiaries of Vistra engaged in competitive market activities consisting of electricity generation and wholesale energy sales and purchases as well as commodity risk management Merger Sub Black Pen Inc., an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Oncor Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC, a direct, majority-owned subsidiary of Oncor Holdings and formerly an indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp., that is engaged in regulated electricity transmission and distribution activities Parent Vistra Corp. Public Power Public Power, LLC (d/b/a Public Power), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of PJM, ISO-NE, NYISO and MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers TCEH or Predecessor Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC, a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC, and, prior to the Effective Date, the parent company of the TCEH Debtors whose major subsidiaries included Luminant and TXU Energy TriEagle Energy TriEagle Energy, LP (d/b/a TriEagle Energy, TriEagle Energy Services, Eagle Energy, Energy Rewards, Power House Energy and Viridian Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of ERCOT and PJM that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers TXU Energy TXU Energy Retail Company LLC (d/b/a TXU), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra that is a REP in competitive areas of ERCOT and is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers U.S. Gas Electric U.S. Gas and Electric, LLC (d/b/a USG E, Illinois Gas Electric and ILG E), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of PJM, ISO-NE, NYISO and MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers Value Based Brands Value Based Brands LLC (d/b/a 4Change Energy, Express Energy and Veteran Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra that is a REP in competitive areas of ERCOT and is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers Vistra Vistra Corp., and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context Vistra Intermediate Vistra Intermediate Company LLC, a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Vistra Operations Vistra Operations Company LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra that is the issuer of certain series of notes (see Note 12 to the Financial Statements) and borrower under the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities Vistra Zero subsidiaries of Vistra engaged in the operation and development of renewables and energy storage assets resulting in continued modernization of our generation fleet. Transmission System Operators: CAISO The California Independent System Operator ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. ISO-NE ISO New England Inc. MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. NYISO New York Independent System Operator, Inc. iii Table of Contents PJM PJM Interconnection, LLC Authoritative Organizations: CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CPUC California Public Utilities Commission EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency FERC U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FTC Federal Trade Commission IEPA Illinois Environmental Protection Agency IPCB Illinois Pollution Control Board IRS U.S. Internal Revenue Service MSHA U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas RCT Railroad Commission of Texas, which among other things, has oversight of lignite mining activity in Texas, and has jurisdiction over oil and natural gas exploration and production, permitting and inspecting intrastate pipelines, and overseeing natural gas utility rates and compliance SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission TCEQ Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TRE Texas Reliability Entity, Inc., an independent organization that develops reliability standards for the ERCOT region and monitors and enforces compliance with NERC standards and monitors compliance with ERCOT protocols Rules and Regulations: CAA Clean Air Act Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended IRA Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended General Terms: 2022 Form 10-K Vistra's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023 Ambit Transaction the acquisition of Ambit by an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra on November 1, 2019 (Ambit Acquisition Date) ARO asset retirement and mining reclamation obligation CCGT combined cycle natural gas turbine CCR coal combustion residuals Chapter 11 Cases Cases in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (Bankruptcy Court) concerning voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Bankruptcy Code) filed on April 29, 2014 (Petition Date) by Energy Future Holdings Corp. (EFH Corp.) and the majority of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC, Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC and TCEH but excluding Oncor Electric Delivery Holdings Company LLC and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (Debtors). On October 3, 2016 (Effective Date), subsidiaries of TCEH that were Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases (TCEH Debtors), along with certain other Debtors that became subsidiaries of Vistra on that date (Contributed EFH Debtors), completed their reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code and emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases as subsidiaries of a newly formed company, Vistra (Emergence). CME Chicago Mercantile Exchange CO 2 carbon dioxide Crius Transaction the acquisition of equity interests of two wholly owned subsidiaries of Crius that indirectly owned the operating business of Crius by an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra on July 15, 2019 (Crius Acquisition Date) iv Table of Contents CT combustion turbine Dynegy Merger the merger of Dynegy with and into Vistra, with Vistra as the surviving corporation Dynegy Merger Date April 9, 2018, the date Vistra and Dynegy completed the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2019, by and between Vistra and Dynegy EBITDA earnings (net income) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization Energy Harbor Energy Harbor Corp., and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context ESG environmental, social and governance ESS energy storage system Fitch Fitch Ratings Inc. (a credit rating agency) GAAP generally accepted accounting principles GHG greenhouse gas GWh gigawatt-hours Green Finance Framework Framework adopted by the Company and made available on its website pursuant to which the Company may issue financial instruments to fund new or existing projects that support renewable energy and energy efficiency, with alignment to the Company's environmental, social, and governance strategy Heat Rate Heat Rate is a measure of the efficiency of converting a fuel source to electricity ICE Intercontinental Exchange ISO independent system operator ITC investment tax credit kW kilowatt LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate, an interest rate at which banks can borrow funds, in marketable size, from other banks in the London interbank market load demand for electricity LTSA long-term service agreements for plant maintenance Market Heat Rate Market Heat Rate is the implied relationship between wholesale electricity prices and natural gas prices and is calculated by dividing the wholesale market price of electricity, which is based on the price offer of the marginal supplier (generally natural gas plants), by the market price of natural gas. MMBtu million British thermal units Moody's Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (a credit rating agency) MW megawatts MWh megawatt-hours NO X nitrogen oxide NYMEX the New York Mercantile Exchange, a commodity derivatives exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange OPEB postretirement employee benefits other than pensions Plan of Reorganization Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization filed by the Debtors in August 2016 and confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in August 2016 solely with respect to the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors PrefCo Preferred Stock Sale as part of the tax-free spin-off from EFH Corp. executed pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization on the Effective Date by the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors (Spin-Off), the contribution of certain of the assets of the Predecessor and its subsidiaries by a subsidiary of TEX Energy LLC to Vistra Preferred Inc. (PrefCo) in exchange for all of PrefCo's authorized preferred stock, consisting of 70,000 shares, par value $0.01 per share PTC production tax credit REP retail electric provider RTO regional transmission organization S P Standard Poor's Ratings (a credit rating agency) Series A Preferred Stock Vistra's 8.0% Series A Fixed-Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share v Table of Contents Series B Preferred Stock Vistra's 7.0% Series B Fixed-Rate Reset Cumulative Green Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share Series C Preferred Stock Vistra's 8.875% Series C Fixed-Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share SG A selling, general and administrative SO 2 sulfur dioxide SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate, the average rate at which institutions can borrow U.S. dollars overnight while posting U.S. Treasury Bonds as collateral ST steam turbine Tax Matters Agreement Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of the Effective Date, by and among EFH Corp., Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC, EFIH Finance Inc. and EFH Merger Co. LLC TRA Tax Receivable Agreement, containing certain rights (TRA Rights) to receive payments from Vistra related to certain tax benefits, including benefits realized as a result of certain transactions entered into at Emergence (see Note 8 to the Financial Statements) U.S. United States of America Vistra Operations Commodity-Linked Credit Agreement Credit agreement, dated as of February 4, 2022 (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented, and/or otherwise modified from time to time) by and among Vistra Operations, Vistra Intermediate, the lenders party thereto, the other credit parties thereto, the administrative agent, the collateral agent, and the other parties named therein Vistra Operations Credit Agreement Credit agreement, dated as of October 3, 2016 (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented and/or otherwise modified from time to time), by and among Vistra Operations, Vistra Intermediate, the lenders party thereto, the letter of credit issuers party thereto, the administrative agent, the collateral agent, and the other parties named therein Vistra Operations Credit Facilities Vistra Operations senior secured financing facilities (see Note 12 to the Financial Statements) vi Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that are included in this report, or made in presentations, in response to questions or otherwise, that address activities, events or developments that may occur in the future, including (without limitation) such matters as activities related to our financial or operational projections, capital allocation, capital expenditures, liquidity, dividend policy, business strategy, competitive strengths, goals, future acquisitions or dispositions, development or operation of power generation assets, market and industry developments and the growth of our businesses and operations (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as "intends," "plans," "potential," "will likely," "unlikely," "believe," "expect," "anticipated," "estimate," "should," "could," "may," "projection," "forecast," "target," "goal," "objective" and "outlook"), are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that in making any such forward-looking statement our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such forward-looking statement involves uncertainties and risks and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the discussion under Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, and Results of Operations in this annual report on Form 10-K and the following important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in or implied by such forward-looking statements: our ability to consummate the acquisition of Energy Harbor, and if consummated, our ability to achieve synergies and forecasted operational results; the actions and decisions of judicial and regulatory authorities; prevailing applicable federal, state and local governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the legislatures and other government actions of states in which we operate, the U.S. Congress, the FERC, the NERC, the TRE, the public utility commissions of states and locales in which we operate, CAISO, ERCOT, ISO-NE, MISO, NYISO, PJM, the RCT, the NRC, the EPA, the environmental regulatory bodies of states in which we operate, the MSHA and the CFTC; expectations regarding, or impacts of, environmental matters, including costs of compliance, availability and adequacy of emission credits, and the impact of ongoing proceedings and potential regulations or changes to current regulations; legal and administrative proceedings and settlements; general industry trends; economic conditions, including the impact of any inflationary period, recession or economic downturn; investor sentiment relating to climate change and utilization of fossil fuels in connection with power generation; the severity, magnitude and duration of extreme weather events, drought and limitations on access to water, and other weather conditions and natural phenomena, contingencies and uncertainties relating thereto; acts of sabotage, geopolitical conflicts, wars, or terrorist, cybersecurity, cybercriminal, or cyber-espionage threats or activities; risk of contract performance claims by us or our counterparties, and risks of, or costs associated with, pursuing or defending such claims; our ability to collect trade receivables from counterparties in the amount or at the time expected, if at all; our ability to attract, retain and profitably serve customers; restrictions on or prohibitions of competitive retail pricing or direct-selling businesses; adverse publicity associated with our retail products or direct selling businesses, including our ability to address the marketplace and regulators regarding our compliance with applicable laws; changes in wholesale electricity prices or energy commodity prices, including the price of natural gas; sufficiency of, access to, and costs associated with coal, fuel oil, natural gas, and uranium inventories and transportation and storage thereof; changes in the ability of counterparties and suppliers to provide or deliver commodities, materials, or services as needed; beliefs and assumptions about the benefits of state- or federal-based subsidies to our market competition, and the corresponding impacts on us, including if such subsidies are disproportionately available to our competitors; the effects of, or changes to, market design and the power, ancillary services and capacity procurement processes in the markets in which we operate; changes in Market Heat Rates in the CAISO, ERCOT, ISO-NE, MISO, NYISO and PJM electricity markets; our ability to effectively hedge against unfavorable commodity prices, including the price of natural gas, market heat rates and interest rates; changes in market supply or demand and demographic patterns; our ability to mitigate forced outage risk, including managing risk associated with Capacity Performance in PJM and performance incentives in ISO-NE; efforts to identify opportunities to reduce congestion and improve busbar power prices; vii Table of Contents access to adequate transmission facilities to meet changing demands; changes in interest rates, commodity prices, rates of inflation or foreign exchange rates; changes in operating expenses, liquidity needs and capital expenditures; access to capital, the attractiveness of the cost and other terms of such capital and the success of financing and refinancing efforts, including availability of funds in capital markets; our ability to maintain prudent financial leverage and achieve our capital allocation, performance, and cost-saving initiatives and objectives; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make principal and interest payments in respect of, or refinance, our debt obligations; our expectation that we will continue to pay (i) a consistent aggregate cash dividend amount to common stockholders on a quarterly basis and (ii) the applicable semiannual cash dividend to the Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock stockholders, respectively; our expectation that we will continue to make share repurchases under, and the possibility that we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of, our share repurchase program, and the possibility that the program may be suspended, discontinued or not completed prior to its termination; our ability to implement and successfully execute upon our strategic and growth initiatives, including the completion and integration of mergers, acquisitions and/or joint venture activity, the identification and completion of sales and divestitures activity, and the completion and commercialization of our other business development and construction projects; competition for new energy development and other business opportunities; counterparties' collateral demands and other factors affecting our liquidity position and financial condition; changes in technology (including large-scale electricity storage) used by and services offered by us; changes in electricity transmission that allow additional power generation to compete with our generation assets; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees; significant changes in our relationship with our employees, including the availability of qualified personnel, and the potential adverse effects if labor disputes or grievances were to occur or changes in laws or regulations relating to independent contractor status; changes in assumptions used to estimate costs of providing employee benefits, including medical and dental benefits, pension and OPEB, and future funding requirements related thereto, including joint and several liability exposure under ERISA; hazards customary to the industry and the possibility that we may not have adequate insurance to cover losses resulting from such hazards; our ability to effectively and efficiently plan, prepare for and execute expected asset retirements and reclamation obligations and the impacts thereof, and actions by credit rating agencies. Any forward-looking statement speaks only at the date on which it is made, and except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict them. In addition, we may be unable to assess the impact of any such event or condition or the extent to which any such event or condition, or combination of events or conditions, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statement. As such, you should not unduly rely on such forward-looking statements. viii Table of Contents INDUSTRY AND MARKET INFORMATION Certain industry and market data and other statistical information used throughout this report are based on independent industry publications, government publications, reports by market research firms or other published independent sources, including certain data published by CAISO, ERCOT, ISO-NE, MISO, NYISO, PJM, the environmental regulatory bodies of states in which we operate and NYMEX. We did not commission any of these publications, reports or other sources. Some data is also based on good faith estimates, which are derived from our review of internal surveys, as well as the independent sources listed above. Industry publications, reports and other sources generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable, but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies, publications, reports and other sources is reliable, we have not independently investigated or verified the information contained or referred to therein and make no representation as to the accuracy or completeness of such information. Forecasts are particularly likely to be inaccurate, especially over long periods of time, and we do not know what assumptions were used in preparing such forecasts. Statements regarding industry and market data and other statistical information used throughout this report involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors. ix Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS References in this report to "we," "our," "us" and "the Company" are to Vistra and/or its subsidiaries, as apparent in the context. See Glossary of Terms and Abbreviations for defined terms. General Vistra is an integrated retail electricity and power generation company. We combine an innovative, customer-centric approach to retail sales with safe, reliable, diverse, and efficient power generation. Our integrated power generation and wholesale operation allows us to efficiently obtain the electricity needed to serve our customers at the lowest cost. The integrated model enables us to structure products and contracts in a way that offers significant value compared to stand-alone retail electric providers. The Company brings its products and services to market in 20 states and the District of Columbia, including all major competitive wholesale power markets in the U.S. We serve approximately 4 million residential, commercial, and industrial retail customers with electricity and natural gas. Our generation fleet totals approximately 37,000 megawatts of generation capacity powered by a diverse portfolio, including natural gas, nuclear, coal, solar, and battery energy storage facilities. Vistra is guided by four core principles: we do business the right way, we work as a team, we compete to win, and we care about our stakeholders, including our customers, our communities where we work and live, our employees, and our investors. Market Discussion The operations of Vistra, as an integrated retail electricity and power generation company, are further aligned into six reportable business segments: (i) Retail, (ii) Texas, (iii) East, (iv) West, (v) Sunset and (vi) Asset Closure. Our Texas, East, West and Sunset segments include our electricity generation operations, and our Asset Closure segment is engaged in the decommissioning and reclamation of retired plants and mines. Retail Operations Vistra is one of the largest competitive residential retail electricity providers in the U.S. Our Retail operations are engaged in retail sales of electricity, natural gas and related services to approximately 4 million customers. Substantially all of our retail activities are conducted by TXU Energy, Ambit Energy, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, and U.S. Gas Electric across 19 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. Our TXU Energy brand, which has been used to sell electricity to customers in the competitive retail electricity market in Texas for approximately 20 years, is registered and protected by trademark law and is the only material intellectual property asset that we own. We have also acquired the trade names for Ambit Energy, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, TriEagle Energy, Public Power and U.S. Gas Electric through the Ambit Transaction, Crius Transaction and the Dynegy Merger, as the case may be. As of December 31, 2023, we have reflected intangible assets on our balance sheet for our trade names of approximately $1.341 billion (see Note 6 to the Financial Statements). The largest portion of our retail operations are in Texas, where we provide retail electricity to approximately 2.5 million customers. We believe that we have differentiated ourselves by providing a distinctive customer experience predicated on delivering reliable and innovative power products and solutions to our customers, which give our customers choice, convenience and control over how and when they use electricity and related services. Our retail business also offers a comprehensive suite of green products and services, including 100% wind and solar options, as well as thermostats, dashboards and other programs designed to encourage reduced consumption and increased energy efficiency. 1 Table of Contents Electricity Generation Operations Vistra is the largest competitive power generator in the U.S. as measured by MWh. At December 31, 2023, our generating capacity was powered by the following: Primary Fuel Technology Net Capacity (MW) % of Net Capacity Natural Gas CCGT, CT or ST 24,313 66% Coal ST 8,428 23% Nuclear Nuclear 2,400 7% Renewable Solar/Battery 1,358 4% Fuel Oil CT 203 % Total 36,702 100% Our natural gas-fueled generation fleet is comprised of 23 CCGT generation facilities totaling 19,512 MW and 11 peaking generation facilities totaling 4,801 MW. We satisfy our fuel requirements at these facilities through a combination of spot market and near-term purchase contracts. Additionally, we have near-term natural gas transportat