Item 1. BUSINESS 1 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 17 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 38 Item 2. PROPERTIES 39 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 41 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 41 PART II. Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 42 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 44 Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 45 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 72 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 78 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 170 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 171 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 173 PART III. Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 173 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 173 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 173 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 173 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNANT FEES AND SERVICES 173 PART IV. Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 174 Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 184 Signatures 185 Vistra Energy Corp.'s (Vistra Energy) annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those reports are made available to the public, free of charge, on the Vistra Energy website at http://www.vistraenergy.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additionally, Vistra Energy posts important information, including press releases, investor presentations, sustainability reports, and notices of upcoming events on its website and utilizes its website as a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Investors may be notified of posting to the website by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds on the "Investor Relations" page of Vistra Energy's website. The information on Vistra Energy's website shall not be deemed a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. The representations and warranties contained in any agreement that we have filed as an exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K, or that we have or may publicly file in the future, may contain representations and warranties that may (i) be made by and to the parties thereto at specific dates, (ii) be subject to exceptions and qualifications contained in separate disclosure schedules, (iii) represent the parties' risk allocation in the particular transaction, or (iv) be qualified by materiality standards that differ from what may be viewed as material for securities law purposes. This annual report on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings of Vistra Energy and its subsidiaries occasionally make references to Vistra Energy (or "we," "our," "us" or "the Company"), Luminant, TXU Energy, Ambit Energy, Value Based Brands LLC, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, TriEagle Energy, Public Power or U.S. Gas Electric, when describing actions, rights or obligations of their respective subsidiaries. These references reflect the fact that the subsidiaries are consolidated with, or otherwise reflected in, the Vistra Energy financial statements for financial reporting purposes. However, these references should not be interpreted to imply that the parent company is actually undertaking the action or has the rights or obligations of the relevant subsidiary company or vice versa. i Table of Contents GLOSSARY When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below. 2018 Form 10-K Vistra Energy's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019, except for Exhibits 31.1, 31.2, 32.1 and 32.2, which were amended in Vistra Energy's annual report on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on July 19, 2019 Ambit Ambit Holdings, LLC, and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context ARO asset retirement and mining reclamation obligation CAA Clean Air Act CAISO The California Independent System Operator CCGT combined cycle gas turbine CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chapter 11 Cases Cases in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (Bankruptcy Court) concerning voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Bankruptcy Code) filed on April 29, 2014 (Petition Date) by Energy Future Holdings Corp. (EFH Corp.) and the majority of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC, Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC and TCEH but excluding the Oncor Ring-Fenced Entities (Debtors). On the Effective Date, subsidiaries of TCEH that were Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases (TCEH Debtors), along with certain other Debtors that became subsidiaries of Vistra Energy on that date (Contributed EFH Debtors) emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases. CME Chicago Mercantile Exchange CO 2 carbon dioxide CPUC California Public Utilities Commission Crius Crius Energy Trust and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context CT combustion turbine Dynegy Dynegy Inc., and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context Dynegy Energy Services Dynegy Energy Services, LLC and Dynegy Energy Services (East), LLC (d/b/a Dynegy and Brighten Energy), indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of Vistra Energy, that are REPs in certain areas of MISO and PJM, respectively, and are engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers. EBITDA earnings (net income) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization Effective Date October 3, 2016, the date the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors completed their reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code and emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases Emergence emergence of the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors from the Chapter 11 Cases as subsidiaries of a newly formed company, Vistra Energy, on the Effective Date EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Exchange Act Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. ESS energy storage system FERC U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings Inc. (a credit rating agency) FTC Federal Trade Commission GAAP generally accepted accounting principles GHG greenhouse gas GWh gigawatt-hours Homefield Energy Illinois Power Marketing Company (d/b/a Homefield Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy, a REP in certain areas of MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to municipal customers ICE Intercontinental Exchange IRS U.S. Internal Revenue Service ISO independent system operator ii Table of Contents ISO-NE Independent System Operator New England kW kilowatt LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate, an interest rate at which banks can borrow funds, in marketable size, from other banks in the London interbank market load demand for electricity LTSA long-term service agreements for plant maintenance Luminant subsidiaries of Vistra Energy engaged in competitive market activities consisting of electricity generation and wholesale energy sales and purchases as well as commodity risk management market heat rate Heat rate is a measure of the efficiency of converting a fuel source to electricity. Market heat rate is the implied relationship between wholesale electricity prices and natural gas prices and is calculated by dividing the wholesale market price of electricity, which is based on the price offer of the marginal supplier (generally natural gas plants), by the market price of natural gas. Merger the merger of Dynegy with and into Vistra Energy, with Vistra Energy as the surviving corporation Merger Agreement the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2017, by and between Vistra Energy and Dynegy Merger Date April 9, 2018, the date Vistra Energy and Dynegy completed the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. MMBtu million British thermal units Moody's Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (a credit rating agency) MSHA U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration MW megawatts MWh megawatt-hours NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NO X nitrogen oxide NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NYMEX the New York Mercantile Exchange, a commodity derivatives exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange NYISO New York Independent System Operator Oncor Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC, a direct, majority-owned subsidiary of Oncor Holdings and formerly an indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp., that is engaged in regulated electricity transmission and distribution activities Oncor Ring-Fenced Entities Oncor Electric Delivery Holdings Company LLC and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Oncor OPEB postretirement employee benefits other than pensions Parent Vistra Energy Corp. PJM PJM Interconnection, LLC Plan of Reorganization Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization filed by the Debtors in August 2016 and confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in August 2016 solely with respect to the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors PrefCo Vistra Preferred Inc. PrefCo Preferred Stock Sale as part of the Spin-Off, the contribution of certain of the assets of the Predecessor and its subsidiaries by a subsidiary of TEX Energy LLC to PrefCo in exchange for all of PrefCo's authorized preferred stock, consisting of 70,000 shares, par value $0.01 per share Public Power Public Power, LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy, a REP in certain areas of PJM, NYISO, ISO-NE and MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas PURA Texas Public Utility Regulatory Act REP retail electric provider iii Table of Contents RCT Railroad Commission of Texas, which among other things, has oversight of lignite mining activity in Texas RTO regional transmission organization S P Standard Poor's Ratings (a credit rating agency) SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended SG A selling, general and administrative SO 2 sulfur dioxide Spin-Off the tax-free spin-off from EFH Corp. executed pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization on the Effective Date by the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors ST steam turbine Tax Matters Agreement Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of the Effective Date, by and among EFH Corp., Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC, EFIH Finance Inc. and EFH Merger Co. LLC TCJA The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, federal income tax legislation enacted in December 2017, which significantly changed the tax laws applicable to business entities TCEH or Predecessor Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC, a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC, and, prior to the Effective Date, the parent company of the TCEH Debtors whose major subsidiaries included Luminant and TXU Energy TCEH Debtors the subsidiaries of TCEH that were Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases TCEQ Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TRA Tax Receivables Agreement, containing certain rights (TRA Rights) to receive payments from Vistra Energy related to certain tax benefits, including benefits realized as a result of certain transactions entered into at Emergence (see Note 8 to the Financial Statements) TRE Texas Reliability Entity, Inc., an independent organization that develops reliability standards for the ERCOT region and monitors and enforces compliance with NERC standards and monitors compliance with ERCOT protocols TXU Energy TXU Energy Retail Company LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy that is a REP in competitive areas of ERCOT and is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers TriEagle Energy TriEagle Energy, LP, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy, a REP in certain areas of ERCOT and PJM that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers TWh terawatt-hours U.S. United States of America U.S. Gas Electric U.S. Gas and Electric, Inc., an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy, a REP in certain areas of PJM, NYISO, ISO-NE and MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers Value Based Brands Value Based Brands LLC (d/b/a 4Change Energy and Express Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy that is a REP in competitive areas of ERCOT and is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers Vistra Energy or Successor Vistra Energy Corp., formerly known as TCEH Corp., and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context. On the Effective Date, the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors emerged from Chapter 11 and became subsidiaries of Vistra Energy Corp. Vistra Intermediate Vistra Intermediate Company LLC, a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy Vistra Operations Vistra Operations Company LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy that is the issuer of certain series of notes (see Note 11 to the Financial Statements) and borrower under the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities Vistra Operations Credit Facilities Vistra Operations Company LLC's $5.425 billion senior secured financing facilities (see Note 11 to the Financial Statements) iv Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS References in this report to "we," "our," "us" and "the Company" are to Vistra Energy and/or its subsidiaries, as apparent in the context. See Glossary for defined terms. Business Vistra Energy is a holding company operating an integrated retail and generation business primarily in markets throughout the U.S. Through our subsidiaries, we are engaged in competitive energy activities including electricity generation, wholesale energy sales and purchases, commodity risk management and retail sales of electricity and natural gas to end users. We incorporated under Delaware General Corporate Law in 2016. We serve approximately 4.6 million customers and operate in 20 states and the District of Columbia. Our generation fleet totals approximately 38,500 MW of generation capacity with a portfolio of natural gas, nuclear, coal, solar and battery energy storage facilities. Vistra Energy has six reportable segments: (i) Retail, (ii) ERCOT, (iii) PJM, (iv) NY/NE (comprising NYISO and ISO-NE), (v) MISO and (vi) Asset Closure. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements for further information concerning reportable business segments. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 5,475 full-time employees, including approximately 1,690 employees under collective bargaining agreements. Acquisitions and Merger Ambit Transaction On November 1, 2019, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy completed the acquisition of Ambit (Ambit Transaction). Because the Ambit Transaction closed on November 1, 2019, Vistra Energy's consolidated financial statements and the notes related thereto do not include the financial condition or the operating results of Ambit and its subsidiaries prior to November 1, 2019. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for a summary of the Ambit Transaction. Crius Transaction On July 15, 2019, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Energy completed the acquisition of the equity interests of two wholly owned subsidiaries of Crius that indirectly own the operating business of Crius (Crius Transaction). Because the Crius Transaction closed on July 15, 2019, Vistra Energy's consolidated financial statements and the notes related thereto do not include the financial condition or the operating results of Crius and its subsidiaries prior to July 15, 2019. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for a summary of the Crius Transaction. Dynegy Merger Transaction On the Merger Date, Vistra Energy and Dynegy completed the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Dynegy merged with and into Vistra Energy, with Vistra Energy continuing as the surviving corporation. Because the Merger closed on April 9, 2018, Vistra Energy's consolidated financial statements and the notes related thereto do not include the financial condition or the operating results of Dynegy prior to April 9, 2018. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for a summary of the Merger transaction. Business Strategy Our business strategy is to deliver long-term stakeholder value through a focus on the following areas: Integrated business model. We believe the key factor that distinguishes us from others in the competitive electricity industry is the integrated nature of our business ( i.e. , pairing our reliable and efficient mining, diversified generation fleet and wholesale commodity risk management capabilities with our retail platform). Our business strategy is guided by our integrated business model because we believe it is our core competitive advantage and differentiates us from our non-integrated competitors by reducing the effects of commodity price movements and contributing to earnings and cash flow stability. Consequently, our integrated business model is at the core of our business strategy. 1 Table of Contents Disciplined capital allocation. Vistra Energy takes a balanced approach to capital allocation, focusing on maintaining a strong balance sheet, investing prudently in the maintenance of our existing assets and potential growth acquisitions, and returning capital to stockholders. A strong balance sheet helps to ensure Vistra Energy's interest expense is manageable in a variety of wholesale power price environments while giving Vistra Energy access to flexible and diverse sources of liquidity. We prudently make necessary capital investments to maintain the safety and reliability of our facilities while also investing in new technologies when economic, including solar assets and battery storage systems, resulting in a continued modernization of Vistra Energy's generation fleet. Because we believe cost discipline and strong management of our assets and commodity positions are necessary to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders, we generally make capital allocation decisions that we believe will lead to attractive cash returns on investment, including by returning capital to our stockholders through quarterly dividends and our share repurchase program (see Note 14 to the Financial Statements). Superior customer service. Through TXU Energy, Ambit Energy, Value Based Brands, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, TriEagle Energy, Public Power and US Gas Electric, we serve the retail electricity and natural gas needs of end-use residential, small business, commercial and industrial electricity customers through multiple sales and marketing channels. In addition to benefitting from our integrated business model, we leverage our brands, our commitment to a consistent and reliable product offering, the backstop of the electricity generated by our generation fleet, our wholesale commodity risk management operations and our strong customer service to differentiate our products and services from our competitors. We strive to be at the forefront of innovation with new offerings and customer experiences to reinforce our value proposition. We maintain a focus on solutions that give our customers choice, convenience and control over how and when they use electricity and related services, including TXU Energy's Free Nights and Solar Days residential plans, MyEnergy Dashboard SM , TXU Energy's iThermostat product and mobile solution, the TXU Energy Rewards program, the TXU Energy Green Up SM renewable energy credit program and a diverse set of solar options. Our focus on superior customer service will guide our efforts to acquire new residential and commercial customers, serve and retain existing customers and maintain valuable sales channels for our electricity generation resources. We believe our customer service, products and trusted brands will result in high residential customer retention rates, particularly in Texas where our TXU Energy brand has maintained its residential customers in a highly competitive retail market. Excellence in operations while maintaining an efficient cost structure. We believe that operating our facilities in a safe, reliable, environmentally compliant, and cost-effective and efficient manner is a foundation for delivering long-term stakeholder value. We also believe value increases as a function of making disciplined investments that enable our generation facilities to operate not only effectively and efficiently, but also safely, reliably and in an environmentally compliant manner. We believe that an ongoing focus on operational excellence and safety is a key component to success in a highly competitive environment and is part of the unique value proposition of our integrated model. Additionally, we are committed to optimizing our cost structure, reducing our debt levels and implementing enterprise-wide process and operating improvements without compromising the safety of our communities, customers and employees. We believe we have a highly effective and efficient cost structure and that our cost structure supports excellence in our operations. Integrated hedging and commercial management. Our commercial team is focused on managing risk, through opportunistic hedging, and optimizing our assets and business positions. We actively manage our exposure to wholesale electricity prices in markets in which we operate, on an integrated basis, through contracts for physical delivery of electricity, exchange-traded and over-the-counter financial contracts, term, day-ahead and real-time market transactions, and bilateral contracts with other wholesale market participants, including other power generators and end-user electricity customers. We seek to hedge near-term cash flow and optimize long term value through hedging and forward sales contracts. We believe our integrated hedging and commercial management strategy, in combination with a strong balance sheet and strong liquidity profile, will provide a long-term advantage through cycles of higher and lower commodity prices. 2 Table of Contents Growth and enhancement. Our growth strategy leverages our core capabilities of multi-channel retail marketing in large and competitive markets, operating large-scale, environmentally sensitive, and diverse assets across a variety of fuel technologies, fuel logistics and management, commodity risk management, cost control, and energy infrastructure investing. We intend to opportunistically evaluate the acquisition and development of high-quality energy infrastructure assets and businesses, including renewable energy and battery storage assets as well as retail businesses, that complement these core capabilities and enable us to achieve operational or financial synergies. While we are intent on growing our business and creating value for our stockholders, we are committed to making disciplined investments that are consistent with our focus on maintaining a strong balance sheet and strong liquidity profile. As a result, consistent with our disciplined capital allocation approval process, growth opportunities we pursue will need to have compelling economic value in addition to fitting with our business strategy. Corporate responsibility and citizenship. We are committed to providing safe, reliable, cost-effective and environmentally compliant electricity for the communities and customers we serve. We strive to improve the quality of life in the communities in which we operate. We are also committed to being a good corporate citizen in the communities in which we conduct operations. We and our employees are actively engaged in programs intended to support and strengthen the communities in which we conduct operations. Our foremost giving initiatives are through the United Way, TXU Energy Aid and Ambit Cares campaigns. TXU Energy Aid serves as an integral resource for social service agencies that assist those in need across Texas pay their electricity bills. Ambit Cares partners with Feeding America to assist those in need across the U.S. by fighting hunger through a network of food banks. Recent Developments Dividend Declaration In February 2020, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.135 per share that will be paid in March 2020. Market Discussion The operations of Vistra Energy are aligned into six reportable business segments: (i) Retail, (ii) ERCOT, (iii) PJM, (iv) NY/NE, (v) MISO and (vi) Asset Closure. The Retail segment is engaged in retail sales of electricity and natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers. The ERCOT, PJM, NY/NE (comprising NYISO and ISO-NE) and MISO segments are engaged in electricity generation, wholesale energy sales and purchases, commodity risk management activities, fuel production and fuel logistics management, all largely within their respective RTO or ISO market. The Asset Closure segment is engaged in the decommissioning and reclamation of retired plants and mines. Our CAISO operations are included in the Corporate and Other non-segment as our operations in the CAISO market do not materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements for additional information related to our operating segments. Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) and Independent System Operators (ISOs) Separately, RTOs and ISOs administer the transmission infrastructure and markets across a regional footprint in most of the markets in which we operate. They are responsible for dispatching all generation facilities in their respective footprints and are responsible for both maximum utilization and reliable and efficient operation of the transmission system. RTOs and ISOs administer energy and ancillary service markets in the short term, usually day-ahead and real-time markets. Several RTOs and ISOs also ensure long-term planning reserves through monthly, semiannual, annual and multiyear capacity markets. The RTOs and ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets in which we operate currently impose, and will likely continue to impose, bid and price limits or other similar mechanisms. NERC regions and RTOs/ISOs often have different geographic footprints, and while there may be geographic overlap between NERC regions and RTOs/ISOs, their respective roles and responsibilities do not generally overlap. 3 Table of Contents In RTO and ISO regions with centrally dispatched market structures, all generators selling into the centralized market receive the same price for energy sold based on the bid price associated with the production of the last MWh that is needed to balance supply with demand within a designated zone or at a given location. Different zones or locations within the same RTO/ISO may produce different prices respective to other zones within the same RTO/ISO due to transmission losses and congestion. For example, a less efficient and/or less economical natural gas-fueled unit may be needed in some hours to meet demand. If this unit's production is required to meet demand on the margin, its offer price will set the market clearing price that will be paid for all dispatched generation in the same zone or location (although the price paid at other zones or locations may vary because of transmission losses and congestion), regardless of the price that any other unit may have offered into the market. In RTO and ISO regions with centrally dispatched market structures and location-based marginal price clearing structures (e.g. PJM, ISO-NE, NYISO, ERCOT, MISO, and CAISO), generators will receive the location-based marginal price for their output. The location-based marginal price, absent congestion, would be the marginal price of the most expensive unit needed to meet demand. In regions that are outside the footprint of RTOs/ISOs, prices are determined on a bilateral basis between buyers and sellers. Retail Markets The Retail segment is engaged in retail sales of electricity, natural gas and related services to approximately 4.6 million customers. Substantially all of these activities are conducted by TXU Energy, Ambit Energy, Value Based Brands, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, TriEagle Energy, Public Power and US Gas Electric across 19 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. The largest portion of our retail operations are in Texas, where we provide retail electricity to approximately 2.3 million customers in ERCOT. We are an active participant in the competitive ERCOT retail market and continue to be a market leader, which we believe is driven by, among other things, strong brands, innovative products and services, having one of the lowest customer complaint rates according to the PUCT. As of December 31, 2019, we provided electricity to approximately 31% of the residential customers in ERCOT and for more than 10% of business customers' demand. We believe that we have differentiated ourselves by providing a distinctive customer experience predicated on delivering reliable and innovative power products and solutions to our customers, which give our customers choice, convenience and control over how and when they use electricity and related services. Our retail business also offers a comprehensive suite of green products and services, including 100% wind and solar options, as well as thermostats, dashboards and other programs designed to encourage reduced consumption and increased energy efficiency. Our integrated power generation and wholesale operation allows us to efficiently obtain the electr