Item 1. BUSINESS 1 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 19 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 46 Item 2. PROPERTIES 46 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 48 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 48 PART II. Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 49 Item 6. [RESERVED] 50 Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 50 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 80 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 86 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 164 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 164 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 166 Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTION 166 PART III. Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 167 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 167 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 167 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 167 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 167 PART IV. Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 168 Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 183 Signatures 184 Vistra Corp.'s (Vistra) annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those reports are made available to the public, free of charge, on the Vistra website at http://www.vistracorp.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additionally, Vistra posts important information, including press releases, investor presentations, sustainability reports, and notices of upcoming events on its website and utilizes its website as a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Investors may be notified of posting to the website by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds on the "Investor Relations" page of Vistra's website. The information on Vistra's website shall not be deemed a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. The representations and warranties contained in any agreement that we have filed as an exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K, or that we have or may publicly file in the future, may contain representations and warranties that may (i) be made by and to the parties thereto at specific dates, (ii) be subject to exceptions and qualifications contained in separate disclosure schedules, (iii) represent the parties' risk allocation in the particular transaction, or (iv) be qualified by materiality standards that differ from what may be viewed as material for securities law purposes. This annual report on Form 10-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings of Vistra and its subsidiaries occasionally make references to Vistra (or "we," "our," "us" or "the Company"), Luminant, TXU Energy, Ambit, Value Based Brands, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, TriEagle Energy, Public Power or U.S. Gas Electric, when describing actions, rights or obligations of their respective subsidiaries. These references reflect the fact that the subsidiaries are consolidated with, or otherwise reflected in, the Vistra financial statements for financial reporting purposes. However, these references should not be interpreted to imply that the parent company is actually undertaking the action or has the rights or obligations of the relevant subsidiary company or vice versa. i Table of Contents GLOSSARY When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below. 2020 Form 10-K Vistra's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021 Ambit or Ambit Energy Ambit Holdings, LLC, and/or its subsidiaries (d/b/a Ambit), depending on context ARO asset retirement and mining reclamation obligation CAA Clean Air Act CAISO The California Independent System Operator CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CCGT combined cycle gas turbine CCR coal combustion residuals CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chapter 11 Cases Cases in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (Bankruptcy Court) concerning voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Bankruptcy Code) filed on April 29, 2014 (Petition Date) by Energy Future Holdings Corp. (EFH Corp.) and the majority of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC, Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC and TCEH but excluding Oncor Electric Delivery Holdings Company LLC and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (Debtors). On the Effective Date, subsidiaries of TCEH that were Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases (TCEH Debtors), along with certain other Debtors that became subsidiaries of Vistra on that date (Contributed EFH Debtors) emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases. CME Chicago Mercantile Exchange CO 2 carbon dioxide CPUC California Public Utilities Commission Crius Crius Energy Trust and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context CT combustion turbine Dynegy Dynegy Inc., and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context Dynegy Energy Services Dynegy Energy Services, LLC and Dynegy Energy Services (East), LLC (each d/b/a Dynegy, Better Buy Energy, Brighten Energy, Honor Energy and True Fit Energy), indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of Vistra, that are REPs in certain areas of MISO and PJM, respectively, and are engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers. EBITDA earnings (net income) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization Effective Date October 3, 2016, the date the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors completed their reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code and emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases Emergence emergence of the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors from the Chapter 11 Cases as subsidiaries of a newly formed company, Vistra, on the Effective Date ESG environmental, social and governance EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. ESS energy storage system Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FERC U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings Inc. (a credit rating agency) FTC Federal Trade Commission GAAP generally accepted accounting principles GHG greenhouse gas GWh gigawatt-hours Homefield Energy Illinois Power Marketing Company (d/b/a Homefield Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to municipal customers ii Table of Contents ICE Intercontinental Exchange IEPA Illinois Environmental Protection Agency IPCB Illinois Pollution Control Board IRC Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended IRS U.S. Internal Revenue Service ISO independent system operator ISO-NE ISO New England Inc. kW kilowatt LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate, an interest rate at which banks can borrow funds, in marketable size, from other banks in the London interbank market load demand for electricity LTSA long-term service agreements for plant maintenance Luminant subsidiaries of Vistra engaged in competitive market activities consisting of electricity generation and wholesale energy sales and purchases as well as commodity risk management market heat rate Heat rate is a measure of the efficiency of converting a fuel source to electricity. Market heat rate is the implied relationship between wholesale electricity prices and natural gas prices and is calculated by dividing the wholesale market price of electricity, which is based on the price offer of the marginal supplier (generally natural gas plants), by the market price of natural gas. Merger the merger of Dynegy with and into Vistra, with Vistra as the surviving corporation Merger Agreement the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2017, by and between Vistra and Dynegy Merger Date April 9, 2018, the date Vistra and Dynegy completed the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. MMBtu million British thermal units Moody's Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (a credit rating agency) MSHA U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration MW megawatts MWh megawatt-hours NELP Northeast Energy, LP, a joint venture between Dynegy Northeast Generation GP, Inc. and Dynegy Northeast Associates LP, Inc., both indirect subsidiaries of Vistra, and certain subsidiaries of NextEra Energy, Inc. Prior to the NELP Transaction, NELP indirectly owned Bellingham NEA facility and the Sayreville facility. NELP Transaction a transaction among Dynegy Northeast Generation GP, Inc., Dynegy Northeast Associates LP, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of NextEra Energy, Inc. wherein the indirect subsidiaries of Vistra redeemed their ownership interest in NELP partnership in exchange for 100% ownership interest in NJEA, the entity which owns the Sayreville facility NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NJEA North Jersey Energy Associates, A Limited Partnership NO X nitrogen oxide NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NYISO New York Independent System Operator, Inc. NYMEX the New York Mercantile Exchange, a commodity derivatives exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange Oncor Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC, a direct, majority-owned subsidiary of Oncor Holdings and formerly an indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp., that is engaged in regulated electricity transmission and distribution activities OPEB postretirement employee benefits other than pensions Parent Vistra Corp. PJM PJM Interconnection, LLC iii Table of Contents Plan of Reorganization Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization filed by the Debtors in August 2016 and confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in August 2016 solely with respect to the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors PrefCo Vistra Preferred Inc. PrefCo Preferred Stock Sale as part of the Spin-Off, the contribution of certain of the assets of the Predecessor and its subsidiaries by a subsidiary of TEX Energy LLC to PrefCo in exchange for all of PrefCo's authorized preferred stock, consisting of 70,000 shares, par value $0.01 per share Preferred Stock Vistra's Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock Public Power Public Power, LLC (d/b/a Public Power), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of PJM, ISO-NE, NYISO and MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas PURA Texas Public Utility Regulatory Act REP retail electric provider RCT Railroad Commission of Texas, which among other things, has oversight of lignite mining activity in Texas, and has jurisdiction over oil and natural gas exploration and production, permitting and inspecting intrastate pipelines, and overseeing natural gas utility rates and compliance RTO regional transmission organization S P Standard Poor's Ratings (a credit rating agency) SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended Series A Preferred Stock Vistra's 8.0% Series A Fixed Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share Series B Preferred Stock Vistra's 7.0% Series B Fixed Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share SG A selling, general and administrative SO 2 sulfur dioxide Spin-Off the tax-free spin-off from EFH Corp. executed pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization on the Effective Date by the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors ST steam turbine Tax Matters Agreement Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of the Effective Date, by and among EFH Corp., Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC, EFIH Finance Inc. and EFH Merger Co. LLC TCJA The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, federal income tax legislation enacted in December 2017, which significantly changed the tax laws applicable to business entities TCEH or Predecessor Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC, a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC, and, prior to the Effective Date, the parent company of the TCEH Debtors whose major subsidiaries included Luminant and TXU Energy TCEH Debtors the subsidiaries of TCEH that were Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases TCEQ Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TRA Tax Receivables Agreement, containing certain rights (TRA Rights) to receive payments from Vistra related to certain tax benefits, including benefits realized as a result of certain transactions entered into at Emergence (see Note 8 to the Financial Statements) TRE Texas Reliability Entity, Inc., an independent organization that develops reliability standards for the ERCOT region and monitors and enforces compliance with NERC standards and monitors compliance with ERCOT protocols TriEagle Energy TriEagle Energy, LP (d/b/a TriEagle Energy, TriEagle Energy Services, Eagle Energy, Energy Rewards, Power House Energy and Viridian Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of ERCOT and PJM that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers TWh terawatt-hours TXU Energy TXU Energy Retail Company LLC (d/b/a TXU), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra that is a REP in competitive areas of ERCOT and is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers iv Table of Contents U.S. United States of America U.S. Gas Electric U.S. Gas and Electric, Inc. (d/b/a USG E, Illinois Gas Electric and ILG E), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra, a REP in certain areas of PJM, ISO-NE, NYISO and MISO that is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers Value Based Brands Value Based Brands LLC (d/b/a 4Change Energy, Express Energy and Veteran Energy), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra that is a REP in competitive areas of ERCOT and is engaged in the retail sale of electricity to residential and business customers Vistra Vistra Corp., formerly known as TCEH Corp., and/or its subsidiaries, depending on context. On the Effective Date, the TCEH Debtors and the Contributed EFH Debtors emerged from Chapter 11 and became subsidiaries of Vistra Energy Corp. Effective July 2, 2020, Vistra Energy Corp. changed its name to Vistra Corp. Vistra Intermediate Vistra Intermediate Company LLC, a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra Vistra Operations Vistra Operations Company LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Vistra that is the issuer of certain series of notes (see Note 11 to the Financial Statements) and borrower under the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities Vistra Operations Credit Facilities Vistra Operations senior secured financing facilities (see Note 11 to the Financial Statements) Vistra Zero Vistra Zero LLC v Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS References in this report to "we," "our," "us" and "the Company" are to Vistra and/or its subsidiaries, as apparent in the context. See Glossary for defined terms. Business Vistra is a holding company operating an integrated retail and electric power generation business primarily in markets throughout the U.S. Through our subsidiaries, we are engaged in competitive energy activities including electricity generation, wholesale energy sales and purchases, commodity risk management and retail sales of electricity and natural gas to end users. We incorporated under Delaware law in 2016. Effective July 2, 2020, we changed our name from Vistra Energy Corp. to Vistra Corp. to distinguish from companies that are involved in exploring for, producing, refining, or transporting fossil fuels (many of which use "energy" in their names) and to better reflect our integrated business model, which combines a retail electricity and natural gas business focused on serving its customers with new and innovative products and services and an electric power generation business leading the clean power transition through our Vistra Zero portfolio while powering the communities we serve with safe, reliable and affordable power. We serve approximately 4.3 million customers and operate in 20 states and the District of Columbia. Our generation fleet totals approximately 38,700 MW of generation capacity with a portfolio of natural gas, nuclear, coal, solar and battery energy storage facilities. Vistra has six reportable segments: (i) Retail, (ii) Texas, (iii) East, (iv) West, (v) Sunset and (vi) Asset Closure. See Market Discussion below and Note 20 to the Financial Statements for further information concerning our reportable segments, including an update of our reportable segments in the third quarter of 2020. Business Strategy Vistra is a leader in the clean power transition. With a strong zero-carbon generation portfolio and a deliberate and responsible strategy to decarbonize, the company is focused on delivering healthy returns and value for all stakeholders. Our business strategy is focused on the following areas: 1 Table of Contents Growth and transformation. Vistra's strategy is to responsibly and reliably grow our business through economically attractive investments in retail, renewable, and energy storage assets that assist in reducing our carbon footprint and create a more sustainable and resilient company well positioned to generate stable long-term value for all of our stakeholders. Since 2010, Vistra has retired more than 12,000 MW of coal and gas power plants resulting in a 45% reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG emissions), a 45% reduction in carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions, a 55% reduction in nitrogen oxide (NO X ) emissions, and a 75% reduction in sulfur dioxide (SO 2) emissions through year-end 2020, compared to a 2010 baseline. Now, we are transforming our generation portfolio through investments in zero-carbon resources and new carbon-reducing technologies, targeting net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. By year-end 2026, our Vistra Zero portfolio is expected to grow to 7,300 MW of zero-carbon generation, including solar, energy storage and our Comanche Peak nuclear power plant. Additionally, we have announced the retirement of approximately 7,500 MW of coal-fueled power plants by 2027, with plans to repurpose feasible sites to solar and energy storage developments. Repurposed sites provide a strategic advantage in the development of greener power due to the interconnection infrastructure already available, but additionally, and importantly, they allow us to continue supporting the local communities and our employees in those areas. We believe our diversified asset mix will support the reliability of the electric system while providing customers with cost-effective energy that meets their sustainable preferences throughout the clean power transition. Our growth strategy leverages our core capabilities of multi-channel retail marketing in large and competitive markets, operating large-scale, environmentally sensitive, and diverse assets across a variety of fuel technologies, fuel logistics and management, commodity risk management, cost control, and energy infrastructure investing. To advance our sustainability and energy transition initiatives, in December 2021, we adopted our Green Finance Framework, pursuant to which we issued $1.0 billion of Series B Preferred Stock to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, new or existing eligible green projects. We intend to opportunistically evaluate the acquisition and development of high-quality generation and storage assets and power-related businesses, including renewable energy and battery storage assets as well as retail businesses, that complement our core capabilities and align with our operational, financial and sustainability goals. We pride ourselves on our deliberate and responsible approach to grow and transform, considering impacts on all stakeholders. We make disciplined investments that are consistent with our focus on maintaining both a strong balance sheet and strong liquidity profile and our commitment to ensuring grid reliability, affordable power, and pursuit of a just transition away from carbon-emitting generation assets for the communities in which we operate and serve. As a result, consistent with our disciplined capital allocation approval process, the growth opportunities we pursue must have compelling economic value and align with or enhance our purpose and core principles. Disciplined capital allocation. Vistra takes a disciplined approach to capital allocation in support of our commitment to maintain a strong balance sheet. We thoughtfully make capital allocation decisions that we believe will lead to attractive cash returns on investment, including returning capital to our stockholders through quarterly dividends and our share repurchase program as reflected in our current plans to return up to $7.5 billion in capital to common shareholders and reduce up to $3 billion in debt (exclusive of potential limited recourse project financing) through 2026. In addition to our dedicated approach to returning value to all stakeholders, we invest prudently in the maintenance of our existing assets and potential growth acquisitions. A strong balance sheet ensures Vistra's interest expense is manageable in a variety of wholesale power price environments while giving Vistra access to flexible and diverse sources of liquidity needed to make prudent capital investment decisions. We believe in cost discipline and strong commercial management of our assets and commodity positions to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders, to maintain the safety and reliability of our facilities, all while accelerating growth in our Vistra Zero portfolio pipeline with cost-efficient capital and investment in new technologies when economic, including solar assets and energy storage systems, resulting in a continued modernization of Vistra's generation fleet. Integrated business model. Our integrated business model is an important component of our business strategy. This element of our business provides long-term sustainable solutions enabled by our diversified portfolio. This key factor distinguishes us from our electricity competitors by pairing our reliable and efficient mining, diversified generation fleet and wholesale commodity risk management capabilities with our retail platform. Coupling retail with generation is a core competitive advantage that reduces the effects of commodity price movements and contributes to stable earnings and predictable cash flow, a crucial feature of the strategy as Vistra responsibly grows its renewables portfolio and winds down its carbon-emitting assets. 2 Table of Contents Superior customer service. Through our retail brands, including TXU Energy, Ambit Energy, Value Based Brands, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, TriEagle Energy, Public Power and U.S. Gas Electric, we serve the retail electricity and natural gas needs of end-use residential, small business, commercial and industrial electricity customers through multiple sales and marketing channels. In addition to benefitting from our integrated business model, we leverage our brands, our commitment to a safe, reliable and affordable product offering, the backstop of the electricity generated by our generation fleet, our wholesale commodity risk management operations and our strong customer service to differentiate our products and solutions from our competitors. We strive to be at the forefront of innovation with new environmentally-conscious and sustainable-focused product offerings and customer experiences to reinforce our value proposition. We maintain a focus on solutions that provide our customers with choice, convenience and control over how and when they use electricity and related services, including TXU Energy's Free Nights and Solar Days residential plans, MyEnergy Dashboard SM , TXU Energy's iThermostat product and mobile solution, the TXU Energy Rewards program, the TXU Energy Green Up SM renewable energy credit program and a diverse set of solar options. Our focus on superior customer service guides our efforts in acquiring new residential and commercial customers, serving and retaining existing customers, and maintaining valuable sales channels for our electricity generation resources. We believe our dependable customer service, innovative products and trusted brands will result in high residential customer retention rates, particularly in Texas where our TXU Energy brand has maintained its residential customers in a highly competitive retail market. Excellence in operations while maintaining an efficient cost structure. We believe delivering long-term stakeholder value is increased as a result of making disciplined investments that enable our generation facilities to operate not only effectively and efficiently, but also safely, reliably and in an environmentally compliant manner as we lead in the clean power transition through the acceleration of our renewables portfolio. We believe that an ongoing focus on operational excellence and safety is a key component to success in a highly competitive environment and is part of the unique value proposition of our integrated model. Additionally, we are committed to optimizing our cost structure, reducing our debt levels, and implementing enterprise-wide process and operating improvements without compromising the safety of our communities, customers and employees. We believe we have a highly effective and efficient cost structure and that our cost structure supports excellence in our operations and is instrumental in our long-term value proposition. Integrated hedging and commercial management. Our commercial team is focused on effectively and efficiently managing risk, through opportunistic hedging, and optimizing our assets and business positions. We proactively manage our exposure to wholesale electricity prices and fuel costs in markets in which we operate, on an integrated basis, through contracts for physical delivery of electricity, exchange-traded and over-the-counter financial contracts, term, day-ahead and real-time market transactions, and bilateral contracts with other wholesale market participants, including other power generators and end-user electricity customers. We actively hedge near-term cash flows and optimize long-term value through hedging and forward sales contracts. We believe our integrated hedging and commercial management strategy, in combination with a strong balance sheet and attractive liquidity profile, will provide long-term advantages through cycles of higher and lower commodity prices. Corporate responsibility and ESG initiatives. It is our purpose to light up people's lives and power a better way forward. We strive to be a good corporate citizen by investing in our employees, putting customers and suppliers first, and improving communities where we live, work and serve as we accelerate toward a clean energy future. Vistra and its employees are actively engaged in programs intended to support our customers and strengthen the communities in which we conduct operations. Our foremost giving initiatives are through the United Way, TXU Energy Aid and Ambit Cares campaigns. TXU Energy Aid serves as an integral resource for social service agencies that assist those in need across Texas pay their electricity bills. Ambit Cares partners with Feeding America to assist those in need across the U.S. by fighting hunger through a network of food banks. Beyond these giving initiatives, Vistra embeds ESG and considers all stakeholders customers, suppliers, local communities, employees, contractors, investors and the environment, among others into all of our decisions, processes and activities. The Board has ultimate oversight of all our ESG initiatives and ensures these considerations are embedded at every level of our company. We know that prioritizing our stakeholders leads to higher customer satisfaction, more community involvement and support, and committed employees and suppliers, which in turn, leads to a more sustainable company. Our ESG initiatives complement our business strategy and strengthen our resiliency. For instance, our investment in and growth of Vistra Zero supports our long-term goal to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. We stay informed of evolving ESG standards and remain committed to provide specific and measurable ESG goals and initiatives in a transparent manner. 3 Table of Contents Recent Developments Dividend Declarations In February 2022, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.17 per share of common stock that will be paid in March 2022 and a semi-annual dividend of $40.00 per share of Series A Preferred Stock that will be paid in April 2022. Green Finance Framework In December 2021, we announced the publication of our Green Finance Framework, which allows us to issue green financial instruments to fund new or existing projects that support renewable energy and energy efficiency with alignment to our ESG initiatives. See below and Note 14 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the Series B Preferred Stock, which was issued in December 2021 under the Green Finance Framework. Series A Preferred Stock Offering On October 15, 2021, we issued 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in a private offering (Series A Offering). The net proceeds of the Series A Offering were approximately $990 million, after deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses. We intend to use the net 