Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 39 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6. [Reserved] 44 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 45 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 131 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 131 Item 9B. Other Information 131 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 131 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 132 Item 11. Executive Compensation 132 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 132 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 132 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 132 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 133 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 140 iv PART I ITEM 1. Business BUSINESS Overview Ventas, Inc., an S P 500 company, is a real estate investment trust ( REIT ) focused on delivering strong, sustainable shareholder returns by enabling exceptional environments that benefit a large and growing aging population. We hold a portfolio that includes senior housing communities, outpatient medical buildings, research centers, hospitals and healthcare facilities located in North America and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2023, we owned or had investments in approximately 1,400 properties (including properties classified as held for sale). Our company is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois with additional corporate offices in Louisville, Kentucky and New York, New York. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code ), commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1999. Provided we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally will not be required to pay U.S. federal corporate income taxes on our REIT taxable income that is currently distributed to our stockholders. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of highly technical requirements, which impact how we invest in, operate or manage our assets. See Risk Factors Our REIT Status Risks included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. We primarily invest in our portfolio of real estate assets through wholly-owned subsidiaries and other co-investment entities. We operate through three reportable business segments: senior housing operating portfolio, which we also refer to as SHOP , outpatient medical and research portfolio, which was formerly known as office operations, and triple-net leased properties. Non-segment assets consist primarily of corporate assets, including cash, restricted cash, loans receivable and investments and miscellaneous accounts receivable as well as investments in unconsolidated entities. In addition, from time to time, we make secured and unsecured loans and other investments relating to real estate or operators. Our chief operating decision maker evaluates performance of the combined properties in each operating segment and determines how to allocate resources to these segments, in significant part, based on NOI and related measures for each segment. See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including Note 2 Accounting Policies and Note 18 Segment Information, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the Annual Report ). For a discussion of our definition of NOI and for a reconciliation of NOI to our net income attributable to common stockholders, as computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures. We also have investments in unconsolidated entities, including through our third-party institutional capital management business, Ventas Investment Management ( VIM ). Through VIM, we partner with third-party institutional investors to invest in real estate through various joint ventures and other co-investment vehicles where we are the sponsor or general partner, including our open-ended investment vehicle, the Ventas Life Science Healthcare Real Estate Fund (the Ventas Fund ). See Note 7 Investments in Unconsolidated Entities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. The following table summarizes information for our reportable business segments and non-segment assets for the year ended December 31, 2023 (dollars in thousands): Segment Total NOI (1) Percentage of Total NOI Number of Properties Senior housing operating portfolio (SHOP) $ 711,407 37 % 587 Outpatient medical and research portfolio 576,932 30 % 437 Triple-net leased properties 604,651 31 % 331 Non-segment (2) 32,177 2 % $ 1,925,167 100 % 1,355 ______________________________ (1) NOI is defined as total revenues, less interest and other income, property-level operating expenses and third-party capital management expenses. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional disclosure and a reconciliation of net income attributable to common stockholders, as computed in accordance with GAAP, to NOI. 1 (2) NOI for non-segment includes management fees and promote revenues, net of expenses related to our third-party institutional capital management business, income from loans and investments and various corporate-level expenses not directly attributable to any of our three reportable business segments. Business Strategy We aim to enhance shareholder value by delivering consistent, superior total returns through a strategy of (1) generating reliable and growing cash flows, (2) maintaining a portfolio of high-quality assets that are unified in serving the large and growing aging population and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity. Aiming to Generate Reliable and Growing Cash Flows We aim to generate reliable and growing cash flows from our portfolio, which enables us to pay regular cash dividends to stockholders and creates opportunities to increase stockholder value through profitable investments. We believe that the combination of the higher growth potential inherent in our senior housing operating communities, steady contractual growth from our long-term triple-net leases and stable cash flows from our outpatient medical buildings and research centers will enable us to generate sustainable, growing cash flows that are resilient to economic downturns. Aiming to Maintain a Portfolio of High-Quality Assets Unified in Serving the Large and Growing Aging Population We aim to maintain a portfolio of high-quality assets that are unified in serving the large and growing aging population and well positioned to capitalize on compelling demographic demand. Our portfolio is curated across geographies, property types, business models and strategic partnerships to enhance the reliability of our cash flows and mitigate risk, including by reducing our exposure to any particular property type, market, or individual tenant, borrower or manager. Our model also seeks to mitigate the impact of certain other risks, including those related to regulatory changes, climate events, inflation and interest rates moves and economic downturns or global health events. Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity Our goal to maintain a strong, flexible balance sheet and substantial liquidity helps enable us to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities through acquisitions, investments and development and redevelopment projects. We aim to maintain our financial strength to pursue profitable investment opportunities by actively managing our leverage and improving our cost of capital. In addition, we seek to actively preserve our access to multiple sources of capital and liquidity, including unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings, public and private debt and equity markets, and through our third-party institutional capital management business, VIM. Our Businesses Senior Housing Operating Portfolio (SHOP) In our SHOP segment, we own and invest in senior housing communities throughout the United States and Canada. We participate directly in the financial performance of the communities operations and are generally responsible for all operational costs, expenses and other liabilities. We also typically engage third-party managers to operate the communities on our behalf but generally hold applicable healthcare licenses and enroll in applicable government healthcare programs on behalf of the communities in our SHOP segment. The senior housing communities in our SHOP segment include independent living communities, assisted living communities, memory care communities and continuing care retirement communities. Independent living communities are typically age-restricted multifamily rental properties with central dining facilities that provide residents with access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities. Assisted living communities typically offer similar services as independent living communities, plus supportive care that is provided by trained employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, such as bathing, dressing and medication management. Memory care communities provide care for individuals with Alzheimer s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss. Continuing care retirement communities are typically age-restricted properties that offer a continuum of care, and may include a combination of independent living, assisted living, memory care and skilled nursing units. Our assisted living, memory care and continuing care retirement communities are generally subject to state licensure requirements for the delivery of some or all of their services, while our independent living communities generally are not. Charges for room, board and services at these communities are generally paid from private sources. 2 Because we have elected to be taxed as a REIT, we are subject to various restrictions impacting how we invest in, operate or manage our properties, including the senior housing communities in our SHOP segment. Some of those restrictions depend on whether a senior housing community is treated as a qualified healthcare property under the REIT rules. Senior housing communities that are not qualified healthcare properties may be managed by us directly through a taxable REIT subsidiary or by a third-party manager. Senior housing communities in our SHOP segment that are qualified healthcare properties generally must be owned by us in a structure where we engage a third-party manager to manage and operate the senior housing communities, including for purposes of procuring supplies, hiring and training all employees, entering into all third-party contracts for the benefit of the property, including resident/patient agreements, complying with laws and regulations, including but not limited to healthcare laws, and providing resident care and services, in exchange for a management fee. In this structure, we must rely on the third-party managers personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, risk management processes, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage the senior housing communities operations efficiently and effectively. We also rely on the third-party managers to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results in a timely manner and otherwise operate the senior housing communities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. We nonetheless participate directly in the financial performance of the communities operations and are generally responsible for all operational costs, expenses and other risks and liabilities. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Strategy Our third-party managers and tenants operate or exert substantial control over the properties that they manage for or rent from us, which limits our control and influence over operations and results. including in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. See also Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Strategy Our operating assets may expose us to various operational risks, liabilities and claims that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues or increase our costs and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. We treat most of the senior housing communities in our SHOP segment as qualified healthcare properties that generally must be owned in a structure where we engage a third-party manager to manage and operate the senior housing communities. See Government Regulation Tax Regulation included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report. Under our management agreements with third-party managers, the managers generally receive annual management fees which are calculated based on various performance measures, which may include revenue, NOI and other objective financial metrics. Collectively, management fee calculations typically result in the managers receiving annual management fees ranging from 4.5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties and, in some cases, additional management fees based on the achievement of specified performance targets. As of December 31, 2023, 23 third-party operators managed 587 properties in our SHOP segment on our behalf. The following table provides information regarding our significant SHOP operator concentration as of and for the year ended December 31, 2023 (excluding properties owned by investments in unconsolidated real estate entities): Percentage of Total NOI Number of Properties Percentage of Total Properties Atria Senior Living, Inc. 20.1 % 216 15.9 % Sunrise Senior Living, LLC 4.5 % 92 6.8 % The properties in our SHOP segment managed by Atria Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, including Holiday Retirement ( Holiday ), Atria ) and Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Sunrise ) accounted for a significant portion of our SHOP properties segment revenues and NOI for the year ended December 31, 2023. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Strategy A significant portion of our revenues and operating income is dependent on a limited number of tenants and managers, including Brookdale, Ardent, Kindred, Atria and Sunrise. included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. Our Atria management agreements (collectively, the Atria Management Agreements ) have initial terms expiring between 2024 and 2041. In some cases, the Atria Management Agreements include mutual renewal provisions. Ventas has the ability to terminate some or all of the Atria Management Agreements upon certain events with or without the payment of a fee. By way of example, Ventas has the right to terminate Atria s management of 67 communities that were historically managed by Holiday Senior Living upon short term notice. We hold a 34% ownership interest in Atria, which entitles us to customary minority rights and protections, as well as the right to appoint two members to the Atria Board of Directors. We account for our ownership interest in Atria under the equity method of accounting. 3 Our Sunrise management agreements (collectively, the Sunrise Management Agreements ) have initial terms expiring between 2035 and 2040. Ventas has the ability to terminate some or all of the Sunrise Management Agreements upon certain circumstances with or without the payment of a fee. Outpatient Medical and Research Portfolio In our outpatient medical and research portfolio segment, we primarily acquire, own, develop, lease and manage outpatient medical buildings and research centers throughout the United States. Our outpatient medical buildings, which are predominantly located on or contiguous to a health system campus, are generally multi-tenant properties leased to health systems and several unrelated medical practices, although in many cases they may be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group, including neighboring health systems. Tenants include physicians and other specialty healthcare providers and groups who require customized space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services. Outpatient medical buildings typically require enhanced plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate the needs of healthcare providers such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment. Our research centers generally contain laboratory and office space primarily for universities, academic medical centers, technology, biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies and other organizations involved in the research industry. While these properties may have certain characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, research center tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives. Our research centers are often located on or contiguous to university and academic medical campuses. Through our Lillibridge subsidiary and our 50% ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC ( PMBRES ), a property management platform in which we hold an ownership interest, we also provide outpatient medical building and research center management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems and universities, academic medical centers, biotech and other similar companies throughout the United States. Triple-Net Leased Properties In our triple-net leased properties segment, we invest in and own senior housing communities, skilled nursing facilities ( SNFs ), long-term acute care facilities ( LTACs ), freestanding inpatient rehabilitation facilities ( IRFs ) and other healthcare facilities throughout the United States and the United Kingdom. We lease those properties to tenants under triple-net or absolute-net leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures. The senior housing communities in our triple-net leased properties segment may include independent living communities, assisted living communities, memory care communities and continuing care retirement communities, which are described in more detail above in Senior Housing Operating Portfolio (SHOP). Unlike the senior housing properties in our SHOP segment, the senior housing properties in our triple-net leased segment are leased to tenants under triple-net or absolute-net leases (as opposed a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties operations). SNFs provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high-cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital. Treatment programs include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment. LTACs typically serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high 1evel of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit and have a Medicare average length of stay of greater than 25 days. The tenants of these LTACs have the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders. Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a skilled nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital. IRFs are devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues. Other healthcare facilities, such as short term acute care hospitals, provide medical and surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. 4 These other healthcare facilities also provide outpatient services such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology and physical therapy. Charges for services provided at SNFs, LTACs, IRFs and other healthcare facilities are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement, commercial insurance and other private sources. The following table provides information regarding our significant triple-net leased tenant concentration as of and for the year ended December 31, 2023 (excluding properties owned by investments in unconsolidated real estate entities): Percentage of Total NOI Number of Properties Percentage of Total Properties Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. (1) 7.7 % 121 8.9 % Ardent Health Partners, LLC 6.9 11 0.8 Kindred Healthcare, LLC 6.9 29 2.1 ______________________________ (1) Excludes ten properties managed by Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. pursuant to long-term management agreements and included in the SHOP segment. The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Brookdale ), Ardent Health Partners, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Ardent ) and Kindred Healthcare, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Kindred ) accounted for a significant portion of our triple-net leased properties segment revenues and NOI for the year ended December 31, 2023. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Strategy A significant portion of our revenues and operating income is dependent on a limited number of tenants and managers, including Brookdale, Ardent, Kindred, Atria and Sunrise. included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. Brookdale Lease As of December 31, 2023, we leased 121 properties (excluding ten properties managed by Brookdale pursuant to long-term management agreements and included in the SHOP segment) to Brookdale pursuant to a single, triple-net master lease agreement (together with certain other agreements related to such master lease, collectively, the Brookdale Lease ). The aggregate contractual base rent due to us from Brookdale in 2023 was approximately $105.9 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) is approximately $148.9 million. The difference between the aggregate contractual base rent due in 2023 and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) is, in part, a result of the amortization over the remaining lease term of $235 million of up-front consideration received as part of certain amendments to the Brookdale Lease in July 2020 (the 2020 Consideration ). The 2020 Consideration consisted of: (a) $162 million in cash; (b) a $45 million note (repaid by Brookdale in 2021); and (c) $28 million in warrants exercisable for 16.3 million shares of Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. common stock. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $149 million of such 2020 Consideration has amortized, leaving approximately $85 million unamortized. The Brookdale Lease is guaranteed by Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. Under the terms of the Brookdale Lease, base rent escalates annually at 3% per annum, which escalation commenced on January 1, 2022. The existing term of the Brookdale Lease expires December 31, 2025 and Brookdale has the option to renew the Brookdale lease with respect to all (but not less than all) of the properties for two, 10-year extensions. Base rent for the first year of each extension is the greater of (a) 103% of prior full year's base rent; and (b) fair market rent, capped at a 10% increase. Subsequent to the first year of any such renewal, base rent would continue to escalate by 3% per annum over the prior full year s base rent. Brookdale currently has the option to renew the Brookdale Lease for its next 10-year extension by providing written notice to us after June 30, 2024 and on or before November 30, 2024. If all or any part of the Brookdale Lease is renewed or otherwise extended, the then remaining unamortized portion of the 2020 Consideration would be re-amortized and the new GAAP rent would be straightlined from the date of the renewal exercise or extension agreement through the end of the new lease term. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Strategy If we need to replace any of our tenants or managers, we may be unable to do so on as favorable terms, if at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. and Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Strategy A significant portion of our revenues and operating income is dependent on a limited number of tenants and managers, including Brookdale, Ardent, Kindred, Atria and Sunrise. included in Part 1, Item 1A of this Annual Report. In addition, we hold warrants for 16.3 million shares of Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. common stock, which are exercisable at any time prior to December 31, 2025 and have an exercise price of $3.00 per share. The warrants are classified within other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and measured at fair value with changes in fair value being recognized within other expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. 5 Ardent Lease As of December 31, 2023, we leased 11 properties (excluding 19 outpatient medical buildings leased to Ardent under separate leases included in our outpatient medical and research portfolio segment) to Ardent pursuant to a single, triple-net master lease agreement (together with certain other agreements related to such master lease, collectively, the Ardent Lease ). The aggregate 2023 contractual base rent due to us from Ardent was approximately $133.7 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) was approximately $133.8 million. Under the terms of the Ardent Lease, base rent escalates annually by the lesser of four times the increase in the Consumer Price Index for the relevant period and 2.5%. The existing term of the Ardent Lease expires August 31, 2035 and Ardent has the option to renew such term for one, 10-year extension at contractual escalated rent. The Ardent Lease is guaranteed by the Ardent parent company. As of December 31, 2023, we held a 7.5% ownership interest in Ardent, which entitles us to customary minority rights and protections and the right to appoint one member to the Ardent Board of Directors. We account for our investment in Ardent under the equity method of accounting. In May 2023, we sold approximately 24% of our ownership interest in Ardent to a third-party investor for $50.1 million in total proceeds. As a result of the sale, we recognized $33.5 million of gain for the year ended December 31, 2023 in income from unconsolidated entities in our Consolidated Statements of Income and our ownership interest in Ardent was reduced from 9.8% to 7.5%. On November 23, 2023, Ardent became aware of a cybersecurity incident, which Ardent determined to be a ransomware attack. As a result, Ardent took its network offline, suspending all user access to its information technology applications, which resulted in disruptions to certain aspects of Ardent s clinical and financial operations. See Risk Factors Our Legal, Compliance and Regulatory Risks The occurrence of cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our operations or the operations of the third parties with whom we do business, invest in or lend to, result in the loss of confidential or personal information or damage our or their business relationships and reputation. included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. Kindred Lease As of December 31, 2023, we leased 29 properties to Kindred pursuant to a single, triple-net master lease agreement (together with certain other agreements related to such master lease, collectively, the Kindred Lease ). Pursuant to the Kindred Lease, the 29 properties are divided into two groups. The first group is composed of six properties ( Group 1 ) and the second group is composed of 23 properties ( Group 2 ). The aggregate 2023 contractual base rent due to us from Kindred was approximately $130.6 million, which is comprised of $25.8 million of base rent associated with Group 1 and $104.8 million of base rent associated with Group 2. The current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) was approximately $132.5 million, which is comprised of $25.9 million of base rent associated with Group 1 and $106.6 million of ba