Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. [Reserved] 41 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 68 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 123 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 123 Item 9B. Other Information 123 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 124 Item 11. Executive Compensation 124 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 124 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 124 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 124 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 125 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 132 iv PART I ITEM 1. Business BUSINESS Overview Ventas, Inc., an S P 500 company, is a real estate investment trust ( REIT ) operating at the intersection of healthcare and real estate. We hold a highly diversified portfolio of senior housing communities, medical office buildings ( MOBs ), life science, research and innovation centers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities, which we generally refer to as healthcare real estate , located throughout the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2021, we owned or had investments in approximately 1,200 properties (including properties classified as held for sale). Our company was originally founded in 1983 and is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois with additional corporate offices in Louisville, Kentucky and New York, New York. We primarily invest in a diversified portfolio of healthcare real estate assets through wholly owned subsidiaries and other co-investment entities. We operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations, which we also refer to as SHOP, and office operations. See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including Note 2 Accounting Policies and Note 18 Segment Information, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the Annual Report ). Our senior housing communities are either subject to triple-net leases, in which case they are included in our triple-net leased properties reportable business segment, or operated by independent third-party managers, in which case they are included in our senior living operations reportable business segment. As of December 31, 2021, we leased a total of 332 properties (excluding properties within our office operations reportable business segment) to various healthcare operating companies under triple-net or absolute-net leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures. Our three largest tenants, Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Brookdale Senior Living ), Ardent Health Partners, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Ardent ) and Kindred Healthcare, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Kindred ), leased from us 121 properties, 12 properties and 31 properties, respectively, as of December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, pursuant to long-term management agreements, we engaged independent operators, such as Atria Senior Living, Inc. (unless otherwise indicated, together with its subsidiaries, Atria ) and Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Sunrise ), to manage 554 senior housing communities in our senior living operations reportable business segment for us. Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. ( Lillibridge ) subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC ( PMBRES ), we also provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States. In addition, from time to time, we make secured and non-mortgage loans and other investments relating to senior housing and healthcare operators or properties. During fiscal 2020 and continuing into fiscal 2021, our business has been and is expected to continue to be impacted by both the COVID-19 pandemic itself, including actions taken to prevent the spread of the virus and its variants, and its extended consequences. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 and Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8, in each case, of this Annual Report. Business Strategy We aim to enhance shareholder value by delivering consistent, superior total returns through a strategy of (1) generating reliable and growing cash flows, (2) maintaining a balanced, diversified portfolio of high-quality assets and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity. 1 Generating Reliable and Growing Cash Flows Generating reliable and growing cash flows from our senior housing and healthcare assets enables us to pay regular cash dividends to stockholders and creates opportunities to increase stockholder value through profitable investments. We believe that the combination of steady contractual growth from our long-term triple-net leases, steady, reliable cash flows from our loan investments and stable cash flows from our office buildings with the higher growth potential inherent in our senior housing operating communities will enable us to generate sustainable, growing cash flows that are resilient to economic downturns. Maintaining a Balanced, Diversified Portfolio of High-Quality Assets We believe that maintaining a balanced portfolio of high-quality assets diversified by investment type, geographic location, asset type, tenant or operator, revenue source and operating model diminishes the risk that any single factor or event could materially harm our business. Portfolio diversification also enhances the reliability of our cash flows by reducing our exposure to any particular asset class or market, or individual tenant, borrower or manager and making us less susceptible to certain risks, including risks related to regulatory changes, climate events and economic downturns or global health events. Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity A strong, flexible balance sheet and excellent liquidity position us to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities in the senior housing and healthcare industries through acquisitions, investments and development and redevelopment projects. We maintain our financial strength to pursue profitable investment opportunities by actively managing our leverage, improving our cost of capital and preserving our access to multiple sources of capital and liquidity, including unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings, public and private debt and equity markets. Portfolio Summary The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio of properties and other investments, including construction in progress, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): Real Estate Property Investments Revenues Asset Type Properties (1) Units/ Sq. Ft./ Beds (2) Real Estate Property Investment, at Cost Percent of Total Real Estate Property Investments Real Estate Property Investment Per Unit/Bed/Sq. Ft. Revenue Percent of Total Revenues Senior housing communities 810 81,922 $20,282,291 67.9 % $ 247.6 $2,604,396 68.0 % MOBs (3) 309 17,559,733 5,196,016 17.4 0.3 583,606 15.2 Research and innovation centers 31 5,451,703 1,988,685 6.7 0.4 220,962 5.8 Inpatient rehabilitation facilities (IRFs) and long-term acute care facilities (LTACs) 36 3,091 467,427 1.6 151.2 181,040 4.7 Health systems 13 2,064 1,519,645 5.1 736.3 125,842 3.3 Skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) 16 1,732 193,808 0.6 111.9 22,369 0.6 Development properties and other 10 201,745 0.7 Total real estate investments, at cost 1,225 $ 29,849,617 100.0 % Income from loans and investments 74,981 2.0 Interest and other income 14,810 0.4 Revenues related to assets classified as held for sale 4 1 0.0 Total revenues $ 3,828,007 100.0 % (1) As of December 31, 2021, we also owned nine senior housing communities, 12 life science, research and innovation centers and two MOBs through investments in unconsolidated real estate entities. Our consolidated properties were located in 47 states, the District of Columbia, seven Canadian provinces and the United Kingdom and were operated or managed by 85 unaffiliated healthcare operating companies. (2) Senior housing communities are generally measured in units; MOBs and research and innovation centers are measured by square footage; and IRFs and LTACs (as defined below), health systems and SNFs (as defined below) are generally measured by licensed bed count. (3) As of December 31, 2021, we leased 57 of our consolidated MOBs pursuant to triple-net leases, Lillibridge or PMBRES managed 244 of our consolidated MOBs and eight of our consolidated MOBs were managed by five unaffiliated managers. Through Lillibridge, we also provided management and leasing services for 67 MOBs owned by third parties as of December 31, 2021. 2 Senior Housing Communities Our senior housing communities include independent and assisted living communities, continuing care retirement communities and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss. These communities offer studio, one- and two-bedroom residential units on a month-to-month basis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance. Basic services for residents of these communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the residents. More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, which allow residents certain conveniences and enable them to live as independently as possible according to their abilities. These services are often met by home health providers and through close coordination with the resident s physician and skilled nursing facilities ( SNFs ). Charges for room, board and services are generally paid from private sources. Medical Office Buildings Typically, our MOBs are multi-tenant properties leased to several unrelated medical practices, although in many cases they may be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group. Tenants include physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists and other healthcare providers, who require space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services. MOBs are similar to commercial office buildings, although they require greater plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate physicians requirements such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment. As of December 31, 2021, we owned or managed through unconsolidated real estate entities for third parties approximately 19.3 million square feet of MOBs that are predominantly located on or near a health system. Life Science, Research and Innovation Centers Our life science, research and innovation centers contain laboratory and office space primarily for universities, academic medical centers, technology, biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies and other organizations involved in the life science, research and innovation industry. While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, research and innovation center tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives. Our research and innovation centers are often located on or contiguous to university and academic medical campuses. As of December 31, 2021, we own or have investments in nearly 7.9 million square feet spanning 43 operating properties and four in progress ground-up development properties, including a presence in the top two life sciences clusters, South San Francisco, California and Cambridge, Massachusetts. Inpatient Rehabilitation and Long-Term Acute Care Facilities We have 29 properties that are operated as long-term acute care facilities ( LTACs ). LTACs have a Medicare average length of stay of greater than 25 days and serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit. The operators of these LTACs have the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders. Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital. We do not own any hospitals within hospitals. We also own seven inpatient rehabilitation facilities ( IRFs ) devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues. 3 Health Systems We have 13 properties that are operated as health systems. Health systems provide medical and surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. These health systems also provide outpatient services such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology and physical therapy. In the United States, these health systems receive payments for patient services from the federal government primarily under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid or similar programs, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, other private insurers and directly from patients. Skilled Nursing Facilities We have 16 properties that are operated as SNFs. SNFs provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high-cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital. Treatment programs include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment. Charges for these services are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement and private sources. Geographic Diversification of Properties Our portfolio of assets is broadly diversified by geographic location throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, with properties in only one state (California) accounting for more than 10% of our total continuing revenues and net operating income ( NOI, which is defined as total revenues, excluding interest and other income, less property-level operating expenses and office building and other services costs) for the year ended December 31, 2021. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report for additional disclosure and reconciliations of net income attributable to common stockholders, as computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), to NOI. Loans and Investments As of December 31, 2021, we had $549.2 million of net loans receivable and investments relating to senior housing and healthcare operators or properties. Our loans receivable and investments provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are typically secured by mortgage liens or leasehold mortgages on the underlying properties and corporate or personal guarantees by affiliates of the borrowing entity. In some cases, the loans are secured by a pledge of ownership interests in the entity or entities that own the related properties. From time to time, we also make investments in mezzanine loans, which are subordinated to senior secured loans held by other investors that encumber the same real estate. See Note 6 Loans Receivable and Investments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Development and Redevelopment Projects We are party to certain agreements that obligate us to develop properties funded through capital that we and, in certain circumstances, our joint venture partners provide. As of December 31, 2021, we had 14 properties under development pursuant to these agreements, including four properties that are owned through unconsolidated real estate entities. In addition, from time to time, we engage in redevelopment projects with respect to our existing properties to maximize the value, increase NOI, maintain a market-competitive position, achieve property stabilization or change the primary use of the property. Segment Information We operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and office operations. Non-segment assets, classified as all other, consist primarily of corporate assets, including cash, restricted cash, loans receivable and investments and miscellaneous accounts receivable. Our chief operating decision makers evaluate performance of the combined properties in each reportable business segment and determine how to allocate resources to these segments, in significant part, based on segment NOI and related measures. For further information regarding our business segments and a discussion of our definition of segment NOI, see Note 18 Segment Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report and for a reconciliation of NOI to our net income attributable to common stockholders, as computed in accordance with GAAP, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures. 4 Triple-Net Leased Properties In our triple-net leased properties segment, we invest in and own senior housing and healthcare properties throughout the United States and the United Kingdom and lease those properties to healthcare operating companies under triple-net or absolute-net leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties. Senior Living Operations In our senior living operations segment, we invest in senior housing communities throughout the United States and Canada and engage independent managers, such as Atria and Sunrise, to operate and manage those communities. The REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ( RIDEA ) permits us to own or partially own qualified healthcare properties in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments under a triple-net lease) in compliance with REIT requirements. In a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on a third-party manager to manage and operate the property, including procuring supplies, hiring and training all employees, entering into all third-party contracts for the benefit of the property, including resident/patient agreements, complying with laws and regulations, including but not limited to healthcare laws, and providing resident care, in exchange for a management fee. As a result, we must rely on our managers personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, risk management processes, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our senior living operations efficiently and effectively. We also rely on our managers to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results in a timely manner and otherwise operate our senior housing communities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. Office Operations In our office operations segment, we primarily acquire, own, develop, lease and manage MOBs and life science, research and innovation centers throughout the United States. Significant Tenants and Managers The following table summarizes certain information regarding our tenant and manager concentration as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021 (excluding properties classified as held for sale and properties owned by investments in unconsolidated real estate entities): Number of Properties Leased or Managed Percent of Total Real Estate Investments (1) Percent of Total Revenues Percent of NOI Senior Living Operations 545 54.4 % 59.4 % 26.8 % Brookdale Senior Living (2) 121 7.8 3.9 8.6 Ardent 12 4.7 3.3 7.4 Kindred 31 1.0 3.8 7.8 (1) Based on gross book value. (2) Excludes eight properties managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to long-term management agreements and included in the senior living operations reportable business segment. Triple-Net Leased Properties Each of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred is a triple-net lease. In addition, each of our Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred leases has a corporate guaranty. The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred accounted for a significant portion of our triple-net leased properties segment revenues and NOI for the year ended December 31, 2021. See Risk Factors Our Business Operations and Strategy Risks A significant portion of our revenues and operating income is dependent on a limited number of tenants and managers, including Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent, Kindred, Atria and Sunrise. included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. 5 Brookdale Senior Living Leases As of December 31, 2021, we leased 121 consolidated properties (excluding eight properties managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to long-term management agreements and included in the senior living operations reportable business segment) to Brookdale Senior Living. In July 2020, we entered into a revised master lease agreement (the Brookdale Lease ) and certain other agreements (together with the Brookdale Lease, the Agreements ) with Brookdale Senior Living. In connection with the revised Brookdale Lease, we received up-front consideration of $235 million, which is being amortized over the remaining lease term and consisted of: (a) $162 million in cash including $47 million from the transfer to Ventas of deposits under the Brookdale Lease; (b) a $45 million note; (c) warrants for 16.3 million shares of Brookdale Senior Living common stock, which are exercisable at any time prior to December 31, 2025 and have an exercise price of $3.00 per share. In October 2021, we received full repayment of the note from Brookdale. Base cash rent under the Brookdale Lease is set at $100 million per annum starting in July 2020, with three percent annual escalators commencing on January 1, 2022. The Brookdale Lease is guaranteed by Brookdale Senior Living. The warrants are classified within other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These warrants are measured at fair value with changes in fair value being recognized within other expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate 2022 contractual cash rent due to us from Brookdale Senior Living was approximately $105.9 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) was approximately $148.0 million. Ardent Lease As of December 31, 2021, we leased 11 properties (excluding one MOB leased to Ardent under a separate lease) to Ardent pursuant to a single, triple-net master lease agreement. Per our master lease agreement, Ardent is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually by the lesser of four times the increase in the Consumer Price Index ( CPI ) for the relevant period and 2.5%. The initial term of the master lease expires on August 31, 2035 and Ardent has one ten-year renewal option. As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate 2022 contractual cash rent due to us from Ardent was approximately $127.1 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) was approximately $130.8 million. We also hold a 9.8% ownership interest in Ardent, which entitles us to customary minority rights and protections, as well as the right to appoint one of 10 members on the Ardent Board of Directors. Kindred Master Leases As of December 31, 2021, we leased 29 LTACs to Kindred pursuant to a master lease agreement. The lease term for six of the LTACs ends in 2023 and the lease term for the remaining LTACs ends in 2025. Kindred may extend the lease term for each pool of LTACs for an additional term of 5 years by delivering a renewal notice to the Company 12 to 18 months prior to the applicable expiration. We cannot assure you that Kindred will exercise its renewal option on either pool of LTACs. See Risk Factors Our Business Operations and Strategy Risk If we need to replace any of our tenants or managers, we may be unable to do so on as favorable terms, if at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. The aggregate annual rent we receive under each Kindred master lease is referred to as base rent. Base rent escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent, contingent, in some cases, upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters. The annual rent escalator under the Kindred master lease for 25 properties is based on year-over-year changes in CPI, subject to a floor and cap, and is 2.7% for four properties. As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate 2022 contractual cash rent due to us from Kindred was approximately $130.3 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) was approximately $132.2 million. 6 In June 2021, Kindred and LifePoint Health announced that they entered into a definitive agreement pursuant to which Kindred would be acquired (the Kindred Transaction ). The Kindred Transaction closed in December 2021. In connection with the Kindred Transaction, Kindred began operating under a new healthcare system called ScionHealth. Under our agreements with Kindred, we earned a fee of $13.1 million in connection with this transaction, which was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2021 within interest and other income in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Senior Living Operations As of December 31, 2021, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 256 of the senior housing communities in our senior living operations segment. Under these management agreements, the operators receive annual base management fees ranging from 4.5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties and, in some cases, additional management fees based on the achievement of specified performance targets. Our management agreements with Atria have initial terms expiring between 2024 and 2041, and our management agreements with Sunrise have terms expiring between 2030 and 2038. In some cases, our management agreements include renewal provisions. On July 30, 2021, Atria, which at the time managed a pool of 165 communities for Ventas, acquired the management services division of Holiday Retirement, which at the time managed a pool of 26 communities for Ventas. Following such transaction, Atria and Holiday each continued to manage their respective pools of communities under their own distinct management contracts with Ventas. On September 21, 2021, Ventas consummated the acquisition of New Senior Investment Group Inc., whose portfolio included 21 Atria-managed communities and 65 Holiday-managed communities. As of December 31, 2021, Atria managed a pool of 162 communities and Holiday managed a pool of 91 communities for Ventas under their own distinct management contracts. Ventas has the ongoing right to terminate the management contract for 91 of the Holiday-managed communities with short term notice. As disclosed and presented herein, (a) references to communities managed by Atria means all communities subject to our management contracts with Atria, including the Atria-managed New Senior communities, but excluding the Holiday-managed communities; and (b) references to communities managed by Holiday means all communities subject to our management contracts with Holiday, including the Holiday-managed New Senior communities, but excluding the Atria-managed communities. Because Atria and Sunrise manage our properties in e