Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 37 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 158 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 158 Item 9B. Other Information 158 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 158 Item 11. Executive Compensation 158 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 158 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 158 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 159 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 160 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 168 iv PART I ITEM 1. Business BUSINESS Overview Ventas, Inc., an S P 500 company, is a real estate investment trust ( REIT ) with a highly diversified portfolio of seniors housing, research and innovation, and healthcare properties located throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2019 , we owned approximately 1,200 properties (including properties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities and properties classified as held for sale), consisting of seniors housing communities, medical office buildings ( MOBs ), research and innovation centers, inpatient rehabilitation facilities ( IRFs ) and long-term acute care facilities ( LTACs ), and health systems. We had 22 properties under development, including four properties that are owned by unconsolidated real estate entities. Our company was originally founded in 1983 and is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. We primarily invest in seniors housing, research and innovation, and healthcare properties through acquisitions and lease our properties to unaffiliated tenants or operate them through independent third-party managers. As of December 31, 2019, we leased a total of 412 properties (excluding properties within our office operations reportable business segment) to various healthcare operating companies under triple-net or absolute-net leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures. Our three largest tenants, Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Brookdale Senior Living ), Ardent Health Partners, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Ardent ) and Kindred Healthcare, LLC (formerly Kindred Healthcare, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, Kindred ) leased from us 122 properties (excluding two properties managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to long-term management agreements), 11 properties and 32 properties , respectively, as of December 31, 2019 . As of December 31, 2019 , pursuant to long-term management agreements, we engaged independent operators, such as Atria Senior Living, Inc. ( Atria ) and Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, Sunrise ) to manage 406 seniors housing communities for us. Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. ( Lillibridge ) subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC ( PMBRES ), we also provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States. In addition, from time to time, we make secured and non-mortgage loans and other investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties. We operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and office operations. See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including NOTE 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES and NOTE 19 SEGMENT INFORMATION , included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business Strategy We aim to enhance shareholder value by delivering consistent, superior total returns through a strategy of: (1) generating reliable and growing cash flows; (2) maintaining a balanced, diversified portfolio of high-quality assets; and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity. Generating Reliable and Growing Cash Flows Generating reliable and growing cash flows from our seniors housing and healthcare assets enables us to pay regular cash dividends to stockholders and creates opportunities to increase stockholder value through profitable investments. The combination of steady contractual growth from our long-term triple-net leases, steady, reliable cash flows from our loan investments and stable cash flows from our office buildings with the higher growth potential inherent in our seniors housing operating communities drives our ability to generate sustainable, growing cash flows that are resilient to economic downturns. 1 Maintaining a Balanced, Diversified Portfolio of High-Quality Assets We believe that maintaining a balanced portfolio of high-quality assets diversified by investment type, geographic location, asset type, tenant or operator, revenue source and operating model diminishes the risk that any single factor or event could materially harm our business. Portfolio diversification also enhances the reliability of our cash flows by reducing our exposure to any individual tenant, operator or manager and making us less susceptible to single-state regulatory or reimbursement changes, regional climate events and local economic downturns. Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity A strong, flexible balance sheet and excellent liquidity position us favorably to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities in the seniors housing and healthcare industries through acquisitions, investments and development and redevelopment projects. We maintain our financial strength to pursue profitable investment opportunities by actively managing our leverage, improving our cost of capital and preserving our access to multiple sources of liquidity, including unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings and public debt and equity markets. 2019 Highlights Investments and Dispositions In June 2019, we provided new secured debt financing of $490 million to certain subsidiaries of Colony Capital, Inc. The London Inter-bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) based debt financing has a five-year term (inclusive of three one-year extension options). In connection with this transaction, our previous secured loan to certain subsidiaries of Colony Capital, Inc. of $282 million was paid in full. In September 2019, we acquired an 87% interest in 34 Canadian seniors housing communities (including five in-process developments) valued at $1.8 billion through an equity partnership (the LGM Acquisition ) with Le Groupe Maurice ( LGM ). The portfolio continues to be managed by LGM. We also have rights to fund and own all additional developments under an exclusive pipeline agreement with LGM. During 2019, we also acquired four properties and one vacant land parcel for an aggregate purchase price of $237.0 million . During 2019, we sold 24 properties and our leasehold interest in one vacant land parcel for aggregate consideration of $147.5 million and recognized a gain on the sales of these assets of $26.0 million . Liquidity and Capital In January 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper program. Under the terms of the program, we may issue from time to time unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $1.0 billion . During 2019, we (a) repaid or redeemed $1.7 billion aggregate principal then outstanding of our senior notes with a weighted average coupon of 3.7% and maturities between 2019 and 2043; (b) repaid $100.0 million of the balance outstanding on the $300.0 million unsecured term loan that matures in 2023; and (c) repaid in full the $600.0 million unsecured term loan that was set to mature in 2024. During 2019, we (a) entered into a new C$500 million unsecured term loan facility priced at Canadian Dollar Offered Rate ( CDOR ) plus 0.90% that matures in 2025; (b) issued a total of $2.3 billion of senior notes with a fixed coupon of 3.2% and maturities between 2024 and 2049; and (c) issued C$300 million floating rate senior notes maturing in 2021. During 2019 , we sold an aggregate of 15.4 million shares of common stock under both a registered public offering and our at-the-market equity offering program for average gross proceeds of $63.45 per share. 2 Portfolio Summary The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio of properties and other investments, including construction in progress, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 : Real Estate Property Investments Revenues Asset Type # of Properties (1) # of Units/ Sq. Ft./ Beds (2) Real Estate Property Investment, at Cost Percent of Total Real Estate Property Investments Real Estate Property Investment Per Unit/Bed/Sq. Ft. Revenue Percent of Total Revenues (Dollars in thousands) Seniors housing communities 734 70,633 $18,192,047 63.1 % $ 257.6 $2,618,601 67.8 % MOBs (3) 347 19,863,529 5,709,478 19.8 0.3 593,730 15.3 Research and innovation centers 34 6,300,841 2,409,541 8.4 0.4 253,488 6.5 IRFs and LTACs 37 3,106 459,535 1.6 148.0 160,658 4.1 Health systems 12 2,064 1,517,814 5.3 735.4 117,496 3.0 SNFs 16 1,732 201,700 0.7 116.5 23,845 0.6 Development properties and other 18 326,985 1.1 Total real estate investments, at cost 1,198 $ 28,817,100 100.0 % Income from loans and investments 89,201 2.3 Interest and other income 10,984 0.3 Revenues related to assets classified as held for sale 15 4,747 0.1 Total revenues $ 3,872,750 100.0 % (1) As of December 31, 2019 , we also owned five seniors housing communities and one MOB through investments in unconsolidated entities. Our consolidated properties were located in 45 states, the District of Columbia, seven Canadian provinces and the United Kingdom and were operated or managed by 85 unaffiliated healthcare operating companies. (2) Seniors housing communities are generally measured in units; MOBs and research and innovation centers are measured by square footage; and IRFs and LTACs, health systems and skilled nursing facilities ( SNFs ) are generally measured by licensed bed count. (3) As of December 31, 2019 , we leased 63 of our consolidated MOBs pursuant to triple-net leases, Lillibridge or PMBRES managed 273 of our consolidated MOBs and 11 of our consolidated MOBs were managed by six unaffiliated managers. Through Lillibridge, we also provided management and leasing services for 74 MOBs owned by third parties as of December 31, 2019 . Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties As of December 31, 2019 , we owned a total of 1,201 seniors housing and healthcare properties (including properties classified as held for sale) as follows: Consolidated (100% interest) Consolidated ( 100% interest) Unconsolidated (25% interest) Total Seniors housing communities 710 38 5 753 MOBs 313 35 1 349 Research and innovation centers 22 12 34 IRFs and LTACs 36 1 37 Health systems 12 12 SNFs 16 16 Total 1,109 86 6 1,201 Seniors Housing Communities Our seniors housing communities include independent and assisted living communities, continuing care retirement communities and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss. These communities offer studio, one bedroom and two bedroom residential units on a month-to-month basis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance. Basic services for residents of these communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the residents. More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, which allow residents certain conveniences and enable them to live as independently as possible according to their abilities. These services are often met by home health 3 providers and through close coordination with the resident s physician and SNFs. Charges for room, board and services are generally paid from private sources. Medical Office Buildings Typically, our MOBs are multi-tenant properties leased to several unrelated medical practices, although in many cases they may be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group. Tenants include physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists and other healthcare providers, who require space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services. MOBs are similar to commercial office buildings, although they require greater plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate physicians requirements such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment. As of December 31, 2019 , we owned or managed for third parties approximately 21 million square feet of MOBs that are predominantly located on or near a health system. Research and Innovation Centers Our research and innovation centers contain laboratory and office space primarily for scientific research for universities, academic medical centers, technology, biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies and other organizations involved in the research and innovation industry. While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, research and innovation center tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives. Our research and innovation centers are primarily located on or contiguous to university and academic medical campuses. The campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Inpatient Rehabilitation and Long-term Acute Care Facilities We have 29 properties that are operated as LTACs. LTACs have a Medicare average length of stay of greater than 25 days and serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit. The operators of these LTACs have the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders. Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital. All of our LTACs are freestanding facilities, and we do not own any hospitals within hospitals. We also own eight IRFs devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues. Health Systems We have 12 properties that are operated as health systems. Health systems provide medical and surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. These health systems also provide outpatient services such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology and physical therapy. In the United States, these health systems receive payments for patient services from the federal government primarily under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid or similar programs, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, other private insurers and directly from patients. Skilled Nursing Facilities We have 16 properties that are operated as SNFs. SNFs provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital. Treatment programs include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment. Charges for these services are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement and private sources. 4 Geographic Diversification of Properties Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is broadly diversified by geographic location throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, with properties in only one state ( California ) accounting for more than 10% of our total continuing revenues and net operating income ( NOI, which is defined as total revenues, excluding interest and other income, less property-level operating expenses and office building services costs) for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Loans and Investments As of December 31, 2019 , we had $1.0 billion of net loans receivable and investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties. Our loans receivable and investments provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are typically secured by mortgage liens or leasehold mortgages on the underlying properties and corporate or personal guarantees by affiliates of the borrowing entity. In some cases, the loans are secured by a pledge of ownership interests in the entity or entities that own the related seniors housing or healthcare properties. From time to time, we also make investments in mezzanine loans, which are subordinated to senior secured loans held by other investors that encumber the same real estate. See NOTE 6 LOANS RECEIVABLE AND INVESTMENTS of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Development and Redevelopment Projects We are party to certain agreements that obligate us to develop seniors housing or healthcare properties funded through capital that we and, in certain circumstances, our joint venture partners provide. As of December 31, 2019 , we had 22 properties under development pursuant to these agreements, including four properties that are owned through unconsolidated real estate entities. In addition, from time to time, we engage in redevelopment projects with respect to our existing seniors housing communities to maximize the value, increase NOI, maintain a market-competitive position, achieve property stabilization or change the primary use of the property. Segment Information We operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and office operations. Non-segment assets, classified as all other, consist primarily of corporate assets, including cash, restricted cash, loans receivable and investments, and miscellaneous accounts receivable. Our chief operating decision makers evaluate performance of the combined properties in each reportable business segment and determine how to allocate resources to these segments, in significant part, based on segment NOI and related measures. For further information regarding our business segments and a discussion of our definition of segment NOI, see NOTE 19 SEGMENT INFORMATION of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers The following table summarizes certain information regarding our tenant, operator and manager concentration as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 (excluding properties classified as held for sale and properties owned by investments in unconsolidated entities as of December 31, 2019 ): Number of Properties Leased or Managed Percent of Total Real Estate Investments (1) Percent of Total Revenues Percent of NOI Senior living operations 401 43.4 % 55.8 % 31.1 % Brookdale Senior Living (2) 121 7.7 4.7 8.7 Ardent 11 4.7 3.1 5.8 Kindred 32 1.0 3.3 6.3 (1) Based on gross book value. (2) Excludes two properties managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to long-term management agreements and included in the senior living operations reportable business segment. Triple-Net Leased Properties Each of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred is a triple-net lease that obligates the tenant to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and to 5 comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties. In addition, each of our Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred leases has a corporate guaranty. The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred accounted for a significant portion of our triple-net leased properties segment revenues and NOI for the year ended December 31, 2019 . If Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred becomes unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations to us or to renew its leases with us upon expiration of the terms thereof, our financial condition and results of operations could decline, and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders could be impaired. We cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their respective obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a Material Adverse Effect ). We also cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred will elect to renew their respective leases with us upon expiration of the leases or that we will be able to reposition any non-renewed properties on a timely basis or on the same or better economic terms, if at all. See Risk Factors Risks Arising from Our Business Our leases and other agreements with Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred to satisfy its obligations under our agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Brookdale Senior Living Leases As of December 31, 2019 , we leased 121 consolidated properties (excluding two properties managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to long-term management agreements and included in the senior living operations reportable business segment) to Brookdale Senior Living. Pursuant to our lease agreement, Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent. As of December 31, 2019 , the aggregate 2020 contractual cash rent due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, including a reduction for an annual rent credit equal to $7.0 million , was approximately $182.8 million , and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP )) due to us from Brookdale Senior Living was approximately $184.1 million . Ardent Lease As of December 31, 2019 , we leased 10 properties (excluding one MOB leased to Ardent under a separate lease) to Ardent pursuant to a single, triple-net master lease agreement. Per our master lease agreement, Ardent is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually by the lesser of four times the increase in the Consumer Price Index ( CPI ) for the relevant period and 2.5% . The initial term of the master lease expires on August 31, 2035 and Ardent has one ten -year renewal option. As of December 31, 2019 , the aggregate 2020 contractual cash rent due to us from Ardent was approximately $120.9 million , and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) due to us from Ardent was also approximately $120.9 million . Our 9.8% ownership interest in Ardent entitles us to customary rights and minority protections, as well as the right to appoint one of 11 members on the Ardent Board of Directors. Kindred Master Leases As of December 31, 2019 , we leased 29 properties to Kindred pursuant to a master lease agreement. In November 2016, Kindred extended the lease term to 2025 for all of our LTACs operated by Kindred that were scheduled to mature in 2018 and 2020, at the current rent level. The aggregate annual rent we receive under each Kindred master lease is referred to as base rent. Base rent escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent, contingent, in some cases, upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters. The annual rent escalator under the Kindred master lease for 25 properties is based on year-over-year changes in CPI, subject to a floor and cap, and is 2.7% for four properties. As of December 31, 2019 , the aggregate 2020 contractual cash rent due to us from Kindred was approximately $127.4 million , and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) due to us from Kindred was approximately $129.4 million . 6 Senior Living Operations As of December 31, 2019 , Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 260 consolidated seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management agreements with us. Under these management agreements, the operators receive annual base management fees ranging from 4.5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties and, in some cases, additional management fees based on the achievement of specified performance targets. Our management agreements with Atria have initial terms expiring between 2024 and 2027, and our management agreements with Sunrise have terms expiring between 2030 and 2038. In some cases, our management agreements include renewal provisions. Because Atria and Sunrise manage our properties in exchange for the receipt of a management fee from us, we are not directly exposed to the credit risk of our managers in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants. However, we rely on our managers personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our senior living operations efficiently and effectively. We also rely on our managers to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financials results in a timely manner and otherwise operate our seniors housing communities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, including various rights to terminate and exercise remedies under the agreements as provided therein, Atria s or Sunrise s failure, inability or unwillingness to satisfy its respective obligations under those agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties or to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, significant changes in Atria s or Sunrise s senior management or equity ownership or any adverse developments in their businesses or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See Risk Factors Risks Arising from Our Business The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; adverse developments in Atria s and Sunrise s business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us and We have rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our 34% ownership interest in Atria entitles us to customary rights and protections, as well as the right to appoint two of six members on the Atria Board of Directors. Competition We generally compete for investments in seniors housing and healthcare assets with publicly traded, private and non-listed healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition challenges our ability to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our ob