ITEM 1. Business 9 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 52 ITEM 2. Properties 52 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 52 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 52 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 54 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 77 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 148 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 148 ITEM 9B. Other Information 148 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 148 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 149 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 149 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 149 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 149 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 149 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules 150 Signatures 159 2 Table of Contents Glossary of Defined Terms Unless the context requires otherwise, references to Viatris, the Company, we, us or our in this 2021 Form 10-K (defined below) refer to Viatris Inc. and its subsidiaries. We also have used several other terms in this 2021 Form 10-K, most of which are explained or defined below. Some amounts in this Form 10-K may not add due to rounding. 2003 LTIP 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2020 Revolving Facility The revolving credit facility available pursuant to the revolving credit agreement, dated as of June 16, 2020, by and among Viatris, certain lenders and issuing banks from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and repaid in full in July 2021 2021 Revolving Facility The $4.0 billion revolving facility dated as of July 1, 2021, by and among Viatris, certain lenders and issuing banks from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent AbbVie AbbVie Inc. ACA Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act Adjusted EBITDA Non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is appropriate to provide information to investors - EBITDA (defined below) is further adjusted for share-based compensation expense, litigation settlements, and other contingencies, net, restructuring and other special items ANDA Abbreviated New Drug Application AOCE Accumulated other comprehensive earnings API Active pharmaceutical ingredients ARV Antiretroviral medicines ASC Accounting Standards Codification Aspen Aspen Global Incorporated ASU Accounting Standards Update BEAT Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax Biocon Biocon Limited Biocon Biologics Biocon Biologics Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of Biocon Biocon Biologics Transaction The pending transaction between Viatris and Biocon Biologics pursuant to which Viatris will contribute its biosimilar products and programs to Biocon Biologics in exchange for cash consideration and a convertible preferred equity interest in Biocon Biologics Biocon Agreement The agreement between Viatris and Biocon Biologics, dated February 28, 2022, relating to the Biocon Biologics Transaction Biogen Biogen MA Inc. and Biogen International GmbH, collectively BPCIA Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 Business Combination Agreement Business Combination Agreement, dated as of July 29, 2019, as amended from time to time, among Viatris, Mylan, Pfizer and certain of their affiliates CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act cGMP Current Good Manufacturing Practices CIA Corporate Integrity Agreement, dated August 16, 2017, entered into between the OIG-HHA, Mylan Inc. and Mylan Specialty L.P. CJEU European Court of Justice 3 Table of Contents clean energy investments Used to define the three equity method investments the Company has in limited liability companies that own refined coal production plants whose activities qualify for income tax credits under Section 45 of the Code CMA Competition and Markets Authority CMS Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services Code The U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended Combination Refers to Mylan combining with Pfizer's Upjohn Business in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction to form Viatris on November 16, 2020 Commercial Paper Program The $1.65 billion unsecured commercial paper program entered into as of November 16, 2020 by Viatris, as issuer, Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V., as guarantors, and certain dealers from time to time Commission European Commission Contribution Pfizer's contribution of the Upjohn Business to Viatris COPD Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COVID-19 Novel coronavirus disease of 2019 CP Notes Unsecured, short-term commercial paper notes issued pursuant to the Commercial Paper Program DEA U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency Developed Markets segment Viatris business segment that includes our operations primarily in the following markets: North America and Europe DGCL Delaware General Corporation Law Distribution Pfizer's distribution to Pfizer stockholders all the issued and outstanding shares of Upjohn Inc. DOJ U.S. Department of Justice EBITDA Non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is appropriate to provide information to investors - U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) adjusted for net contribution attributable to equity method investments, income tax provision (benefit), interest expense and depreciation and amortization EDPA U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania EMA European Medicines Agency Emerging Markets segment Viatris business segment that includes, but is not limited to, our operations primarily in the following markets: Parts of Asia, the Middle East, South and Central America, Africa, and Eastern Europe EPD Business Abbott Laboratories non-U.S. developed markets specialty and branded generics business, prior to its acquisition by Mylan in February 2015 ERP system Enterprise resource planning system EU European Union EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offered Rate Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended Exchange Offer The offer to exchange the Unregistered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes for the Registered Upjohn Notes, which was conducted pursuant to a registration statement filed with the SEC in September 2021 by Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and declared effective on September 28, 2021. The exchange offer expired on October 28, 2021 and settled on October 29, 2021. FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCA Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K. 4 Table of Contents FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration FKB Fujifilm Kyowa Kirin Biologics Co. Ltd Form 10-K This annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 FTC U.S. Federal Trade Commission GDPR The EU s General Data Protection Regulation GILTI Global intangible low-taxed income Greater China segment Viatris business segment that includes our operations primarily in the following markets: China, Taiwan and Hong Kong Gx Generic drugs Hatch-Waxman Act Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 HIPAA Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act HIV/AIDS Human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immune deficiency syndrome INN International NonProprietary Name IPR Inter Partes review IPR D In-process research and development IRS U.S. Internal Revenue Service IRS Ruling The private letter ruling issued by the IRS to Pfizer with respect to the Combination, dated as of March 17, 2020 IT Information technology JANZ segment Viatris business segment that includes our operations in the following markets: Japan, Australia and New Zealand LAMA Long-acting muscarinic antagonist LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate Lilly Eli Lilly and Company LOE Loss of exclusivity maximum leverage ratio The maximum consolidated leverage ratio financial covenant requiring maintenance of a maximum ratio of consolidated total indebtedness as of the end of any quarter to consolidated EBITDA for the trailing four quarters as defined in the related credit agreements from time to time MDL Multidistrict litigation Momenta Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. MPI Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mylan Mylan N.V. and its subsidiaries Mylan II Mylan II B.V., a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Viatris, in which legacy Mylan merged with and into Mylan Inc. Euro Notes The 2.125% Senior Notes due 2025 issued by Mylan Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan II B.V., Viatris Inc. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes The 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023, 3.125% Senior Notes due 2023, 4.550% Senior Notes due 2028, 5.400% Senior Notes due 2043 and 5.200% Senior Notes due 2048 issued by Mylan Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan II B.V., Viatris Inc. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. Mylan Securitization Mylan Securitization LLC NASDAQ The NASDAQ Stock Market NCDs noncommunicable diseases 5 Table of Contents NDA New drug application NHI National Health Insurance of Japan NHS National Health Services NOLs Net Operating Losses Note Securitization Facility The note securitization facility entered into in July 2021 for borrowings up to $200 million and expiring in August 2022 OIG-HHS Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services OTC Over-the-counter PBM Pharmacy benefit managers PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Pfizer Pfizer Inc. Pfizer Distribution Payments Payments made by Pfizer using the proceeds of the $12 billion cash distribution to (a) repurchase Pfizer common stock, (b) make pro rata special cash distributions to its stockholders and/or (c) repay or repurchase debt (including principal, interest and associated premiums and fees) held by third party lenders Plan Viatris Inc. 2020 Stock Incentive Plan PMS Pharmascience Inc. PPACA Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan 401(k) retirement plan with a profit sharing component for non-union represented employees PSUs Performance awards PTAB U.S. Patent Trial and Appeal Board QCE Quality consistency evaluation R D Research and development Receivables Facility The $400 million accounts receivable entered into in August 2020 and expiring in April 2022 Registered Upjohn Notes The 1.125% Senior Notes due 2022, 1.650% Senior Notes due 2025, 2.300% Senior Notes due 2027, 2.700% Senior Notes due 2030, 3.850% Senior Notes due 2040 and 4.000% Senior Notes due 2050 originally issued on October 29, 2021 registered with the SEC in exchange for the corresponding Unregistered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes in a similar aggregate principal amount and with terms substantially identical to the corresponding Unregistered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes and fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Mylan Inc., Mylan II and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. respiratory delivery platform Pfizer s proprietary dry powder inhaler delivery platform Restoration Plan The Company s 401(k) Restoration Plan restricted stock awards The Company s nonvested restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards, including PSUs Revance Revance Therapeutics, Inc. RICO Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ROU asset Right-of-use asset RSUs The Company's unvested restricted stock unit awards Sanofi Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC SARs Stock Appreciation Rights SDA Separation and Distribution Agreement between Viatris and Pfizer, dated as of July 29, 2019, as amended from time to time SDNY U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended 6 Table of Contents Senior U.S. Dollar Notes The Registered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes, the Utah U.S. Dollar Notes and the Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes, collectively Separation Pfizer's transfer to Upjohn of substantially all the assets and liabilities comprising the Upjohn Business Separation and Distribution Agreement Separation and Distribution Agreement between Viatris and Pfizer, dated as of July 29, 2019, as amended from time to time SG A Selling, general and administrative expenses SOFR Secured overnight financial rate Stock awards Stock options and SARs Tax Act December 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Tax Matters Agreement The agreement entered into by Pfizer and Viatris in connection with the Separation and the Distribution that governs the parties respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes, including taxes arising in the ordinary course of business and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the Distribution or certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free transactions Tax Opinion The tax opinion issued by Pfizer s tax counsel, David Polk Wardwell LLP, with respect to the Combination Teva Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. Theravance Biopharma Theravance Biopharma, Inc. TSA Transition service agreements U.K. United Kingdom U.S. United States U.S. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Unregistered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes The 1.125% Senior Notes due 2022, 1.650% Senior Notes due 2025, 2.300% Senior Notes due 2027, 2.700% Senior Notes due 2030, 3.850% Senior Notes due 2040 and 4.000% Senior Notes due 2050 originally issued on June 22, 2020 by Upjohn Inc. (now Viatris Inc.) in a private offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Mylan Inc., Mylan II and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. Upjohn Upjohn Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer prior to the Distribution, that combined with Mylan and was renamed Viatris Inc. Upjohn Business Pfizer s off-patent branded and generic established medicines business that, in connection with the Combination, was separated from Pfizer and combined with Mylan to form Viatris Upjohn Euro Notes Senior unsecured notes denominated in euros and issued by Upjohn Finance B.V. pursuant to an indenture dated June 23, 2020 Upjohn Senior Notes The Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes together with the Upjohn Euro Notes Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes Senior unsecured notes denominated in U.S. dollars and issued by Upjohn Inc. pursuant to an indenture dated June 22, 2020 URP Universal reimbursement pricing USD Term Loan Facility The $600 million delayed draw term loan credit agreement, dated as of June 16, 2020 by and among Viatris, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and MUFG Bank, Ltd., as administrative agent, and repaid in full in July 2021 Utah Acquisition Sub Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Viatris 7 Table of Contents Utah Euro Notes The 2.250% Senior Notes due 2024 and 3.125% Senior Notes due 2028 issued by Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Viatris Inc. and Mylan II B.V. Utah U.S. Dollar Notes The 3.950% Senior Notes due 2026 and 5.250% Senior Notes due 2046 issued by Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Viatris Inc. and Mylan II B.V. VA Department of Veterans Affairs VBP Volume-based procurement Viatris Viatris Inc., formerly known as Upjohn Inc. prior to the completion of the Combination Viatris Board The board of directors of Viatris Inc. Viatris Bylaws The amended and restated bylaws of Viatris Inc. Viatris Charter Amended and restated certificate of incorporation of Viatris Inc. WHO World Health Organization YEN Term Loan Facility The 40 billion term loan agreement dated as of July 1, 2021, by and among Viatris, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and MUFG Bank, Ltd., as administrative agent 8 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business About Viatris Viatris is a global healthcare company formed in November 2020 whose mission is to empower people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life, regardless of geography or circumstance. Improving the ability of patients to gain access to sustainable and high-quality healthcare is our relentless pursuit. One that rests on visionary thinking, determination and best-in-class capabilities that were strategically built to remove barriers across the health spectrum and advance access globally. Viatris seasoned management team is focused on ensuring that the Company is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers and other stakeholders. With a global workforce of approximately 37,000, the Company has industry leading commercial, R D, regulatory, manufacturing, legal and medical expertise complemented by a strong commitment to quality and unparalleled geographic footprint to deliver high-quality medicines to patients in more than 165 countries and territories. Viatris portfolio comprises more than 1,400 approved molecules across a wide range of key therapeutic areas, including globally recognized iconic and key brands, generics, complex generics, and biosimilars. The Company operates approximately 40 manufacturing sites worldwide that produce oral solid doses, injectables, complex dosage forms and APIs. Viatris is headquartered in the U.S., with global centers in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Shanghai, China and Hyderabad, India. On November 16, 2020, Viatris, formerly known as Upjohn, Mylan and Pfizer consummated the combination of Mylan with the Upjohn Business through a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. In accordance with the terms and conditions of the BCA and SDA, (1) Pfizer contributed the Upjohn Business to Viatris (the Contribution ), so that the Upjohn Business was separated from the remainder of Pfizer s businesses (the Separation ), (2) following the Separation, Pfizer distributed, on a pro rata basis (based on the number of shares of Pfizer common stock held by holders of Pfizer common stock as of the record date of November 13, 2020 (the Record Date )), all of the shares of Viatris common stock held by Pfizer to Pfizer stockholders as of the Record Date (the Distribution ), and (3) immediately following the Distribution, Viatris and Mylan engaged in a strategic business combination transaction (the Combination ). In addition, pursuant to the SDA and immediately prior to the Distribution, Viatris made a cash payment to Pfizer equal to $12 billion as partial consideration for the Contribution. As a result of the Combination, Viatris holds the combined Upjohn Business and Mylan business. Upon completion of the Distribution and the Combination, holders of Pfizer s common stock as of the Record Date owned approximately 57% of the outstanding shares of Viatris common stock, and former Mylan shareholders owned approximately 43% of the outstanding shares of Viatris common stock, in each case on a fully diluted, as-converted and as-exercised basis. In connection with the Combination, on November 16, 2020, Mylan merged with and into Mylan II B.V., a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Viatris, pursuant to and in accordance with the BCA. As a result of such merger, Mylan ceased to exist as a separate legal entity. In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations , Mylan is considered the accounting acquirer of the Upjohn Business and all historical financial information of the Company prior to November 16, 2020 represents Mylan s historical results and the Company s thereafter. Prior to the Separation, the legacy Upjohn Business historically received support services from Pfizer. In connection with the Separation and Combination, Viatris entered into several agreements with Pfizer or its subsidiaries, including among others, transition services and the manufacturing and supply agreements, which in general provide for the performance of certain services or obligations by each of Pfizer and Viatris for the benefit of each other for initial transitional periods following the Combination. The Company began the process of transitioning certain capabilities in 2021, but expects significant changes to occur in 2022 as a result of further transitioning of services and information and other systems. For additional information, see Risk Factors Viatris could incur operational difficulties or losses if Pfizer is unable to perform under the agreements entered into as part of the Combination, if we are unable to obtain the same types and level of services and resources that historically have been provided to the legacy Upjohn Business by Pfizer, or if we are required to make payments to Pfizer pursuant to indemnities agreed to as part of the Combination. Unless otherwise indicated, industry data included in this Item 1 are sourced from IQVIA Holdings Inc. and are for the twelve months ended November 2021. Viatris product and other company data included in this Item 1 are from internal sources and are as of November 30, 2021. 9 Table of Contents Organization Upjohn was incorporated in Delaware on February 14, 2019 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer to operate the Upjohn Business. Effective as of November 16, 2020, Upjohn changed its name to Viatris Inc. and became the parent entity of the combined Upjohn Business and Mylan business. The Upjohn Business was a global, primarily off-patent branded and generic established medicines business, which included 20 primarily off-patent solid oral dose legacy brands, such as Lyrica , Lipitor , Celebrex and Viagra . Mylan was founded in 1961 as a privately-owned company and grew over time into one of the largest manufacturers of generic drugs in the U.S. Mylan became a publicly traded company in 1973. Mylan s strategy then led to many acquisitions which have played a significant role in the evolution of the company, including Matrix Laboratories Limited (2007); Merck KGaA s generic and specialty pharmaceutical business (2007); the EPD Business (2015) and Meda AB (publ.) (2016). These acquisitions assisted in creating robust research, manufacturing, supply chain and commercial platforms on a global scale; substantially expanding its portfolio of medicines; diversifying by geography, product type and channel; maintaining its commitment to quality; and cultivating its global workforce. Since the consummation of the Combination, the Viatris management team has been focused on ensuring that the Company is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers and other stakeholders. This includes our previously disclosed significant global restructuring program, which is described further in Note 17 included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Business Model and Operations At Viatris, we see healthcare not as it is, but as it should be. We act courageously and are uniquely positioned to be a source of stability in a world of evolving healthcare needs. Viatris empowers people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life. We do so via Access , Leadership and Partnership . ACCESS Viatris provides high-quality, trusted medicines, regardless of geography or circumstance. We are committed to improving access to high-quality medicines while working to ensure a reliable supply so patients can get the treatments they need, when and where they need them. Our global portfolio, supported by our science, medical and manufacturing expertise, delivers global iconic and key brands, complex generics, biosimilars, generics - including complex and branded generics - and over-the-counter products. As a company, Viatris: Covers a broad range of therapeutic areas . We produce medicines for patients across a broad range of major therapeutic areas. From cardiovascular health to oncology, Viatris offers quality treatment options across more than 10 major therapeutic areas covering a wide variety of noncommunicable and infectious diseases. We also offer support services such as diagnostic clinics, educational seminars and digital tools to help patients better manage their health. Helps ease the burden of noncommunicable diseases. According to the WHO, NCDs, such as ischemic heart disease, stroke, diabetes, certain cancers and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, were among the leading causes of death globally as of 2016. NCDs affect people of every age, gender and socioeconomic status in every corner of the world, and pose a heavy burden on individuals, families and communities. To overcome this global public health threat, patients worldwide need a partner they can trust one that not only believes everyone deserves good health, but also has the portfolio, experience and expertise to make this belief a reality. 10 Table of Contents Helps hearts stay healthier. According to the WHO, coronary heart disease is the number one cause of death globally. Viatris collaborates with many organizations to help prevent, diagnose, and treat many cardiovascular illnesses. Our deep experience in emerging and developed markets affords a tried-and-true method of achieving high impact across the patient experience, from awareness to adherence. In close collaboration with governments, healthcare providers, technology partners and patients, we at Viatris work to nurture healthcare systems that can adapt and respond to patients ever-changing needs. We continue to collaborate with medical associations, patient advocacy groups and academia to develop innovative, integrated solutions and programs to help strengthen both the delivery and quality of healthcare. Fights infectious disease . We are also a global leader in treating infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, and tuberculosis, and offer an extensive portfolio across these disease states. While many important strides have been made to treat these illnesses, there is still more to be done in countries where lack of access to therapeutics, preventative treatment and diagnostics often result in patients not receiving proper care, and those where HIV transmission continues thirty years into the epidemic. From manufacturing a pediatric-friendly antiretroviral used to treat HIV-positive infants to providing HIV self-tests in some low- and middle-income countries, we are innovating to help patients. An Increasingly Innovative and Differentiated Pipeline Our confidence in the future delivery of our pipeline is rooted in our strong historic development programs and list of firsts, including the recent approval of the generic version of Allergan's Restasis and Semglee (insulin glargine-yfgn), the first interchangeable biosimilar ever approved in the U.S., and the launch of the first biosimilar to Humira (adalimumab) in Japan. In addition, we are working on many other programs, including the potential to be first to market for our BOTOX (onabotulinumtoxinA) and Eylea (aflibercept) biosimilars. While we will continue to diligently pursue important generics opportunities, we will increasingly focus on limited-competition complex and novel products targeting gaps in care, all with a first-to-market emphasis and serving our mission of patient access. Complex products categories are critical to patient health and are growing at a rapid pace. We believe that Viatris early vision and continued commitment has given us one of the deepest complex product pipelines in the industry, and that we are well positioned to capitalize on these growth opportunities in the future. LEADERSHIP Viatris is advancing sustainable operations and innovative solutions to improve patient health. Viatris is committed to providing steady leadership in a world that is constantly evolving. We take that commitment seriously and know that advancing sustainable operations and innovative solutions to improve patient health requires strong global leadership. We know what it takes to reach more patients with more products, and believe that Viatris is uniquely positioned to make a difference through our: Powerful global operating platform , which combines what we believe to be best-in-class manufacturing and supply chain capabilities. Viatris operates approximately 40 manufacturing sites worldwide that produce oral solid doses, injectables, complex dosage forms and APIs on five different continents. Together with a global, flexible and diverse supply chain, our platform strives to mitigate risks of disruption and ensure supply reliability. Our efforts to build a responsive global network have helped us maintain a reliable supply of much needed medicines as the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic continues. We are committed to advancing responsible and sustainable operations and work diligently to minimize our environmental footprint across the Viatris network while safeguarding access to medicine. Our integrated, comprehensive approach focuses on water, air emissions, waste, climate change and energy. Robust global technical resources , including thousands of scientists, regulatory experts and medical and product safety professionals working around the world on innovative therapies and solutions for patients everywhere. Strong global commercial team , including sales team members and marketing professionals whose goal is to ensure that products are shipped to customers around the globe. 11 Table of Contents Diverse and differentiated global portfolio includes products in more than 10 major therapeutic areas, including both infectious diseases and NCDs and medicines that treat 9 out of 10 of the WHO s leading causes of death. We are a leading supplier of medicines to the HIV/AIDS community around the 