ITEM 1. Business 7 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 21 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 ITEM 1C. C ybersecurity 50 ITEM 2. Properties 51 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 51 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 53 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 54 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 77 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 79 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 150 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 150 ITEM 9B. Other Information 150 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 150 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 151 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 151 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 151 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 151 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 151 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules 152 Signatures 161 2 Table of Contents Glossary of Defined Terms Unless the context requires otherwise, references to Viatris, the Company, we, us or our in this 2023 Form 10-K (defined below) refer to Viatris Inc. and its subsidiaries. We also have used several other terms in this 2023 Form 10-K, most of which are explained or defined below. Some amounts in this Form 10-K may not add due to rounding. 2003 LTIP Mylan N.V. Amended and Restated 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2020 Incentive Plan Viatris Inc. 2020 Stock Incentive Plan 505(b)(2) A streamlined NDA process in which the applicant relies upon one or more investigations conducted by someone other than the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained right of reference. AbbVie AbbVie Inc. ACA Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act Adjusted EBITDA Non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is appropriate to provide information to investors - EBITDA (defined below) is further adjusted for share-based compensation expense, litigation settlements, and other contingencies, net, restructuring and other special items AI Artificial intelligence ANDA Abbreviated New Drug Application Announced Divestitures All of the following transactions: on October 1, 2023, Viatris announced it had received an offer for the divestiture of its OTC Business and had entered into definitive agreements to divest its women s healthcare business and, separately, in another transaction, its rights to two women s healthcare products in certain countries, its API business in India and commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets AOCE Accumulated other comprehensive earnings API Active pharmaceutical ingredient ARV Antiretroviral medicines ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update Biocon Biocon Limited Biocon Biologics Biocon Biologics Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of Biocon Biocon Biologics Transaction The transaction between Viatris and Biocon Biologics pursuant to which Viatris contributed its biosimilars portfolio, composed of the Biocon collaboration programs, biosimilars to Humira , Enbrel , and Eylea , as well as related assets and liabilities to Biocon Biologics Biocon Agreement The transaction agreement between Viatris and Biocon Biologics, dated February 27, 2022, relating to the Biocon Biologics Transaction, as amended from time to time Business Combination Agreement Business Combination Agreement, dated as of July 29, 2019, as amended from time to time, among Viatris, Mylan, Pfizer and certain of their affiliates CAMT U.S. corporate alternative minimum tax CCPS Compulsory convertible preferred shares cGMP Current Good Manufacturing Practices CIRP Cybersecurity Incident Response Plan CIRT Cybersecurity Incident Response Team clean energy investments Used to define the three equity method investments the Company had in limited liability companies that owned refined coal production plants whose activities qualify for income tax credits under Section 45 of the Code Code The U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended Combination Refers to Mylan combining with Pfizer's Upjohn Business in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction to form Viatris on November 16, 2020 Commercial Paper Program The $1.65 billion unsecured commercial paper program entered into as of November 16, 2020 by Viatris, as issuer, Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V., as guarantors, and certain dealers from time to time COPD Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 2 Table of Contents COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COVID-19 Novel coronavirus disease of 2019 CP Notes Unsecured, short-term commercial paper notes issued pursuant to the Commercial Paper Program DEA U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency DEI Diversity, equity, and inclusion Developed Markets segment Viatris business segment that includes our operations primarily in the following markets: North America and Europe DGCL Delaware General Corporation Law Distribution Pfizer's distribution to Pfizer stockholders all the issued and outstanding shares of Upjohn Inc. DOJ U.S. Department of Justice DRIP Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan EBITDA Non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is appropriate to provide information to investors - U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) adjusted for net contribution attributable to equity method investments, income tax provision (benefit), interest expense and depreciation and amortization EDPA U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania EMA European Medicines Agency Emerging Markets segment Viatris business segment that includes, but is not limited to, our operations primarily in the following markets: Parts of Asia, the Middle East, South and Central America, Africa, and Eastern Europe EPD Business Abbott Laboratories non-U.S. developed markets specialty and branded generics business, prior to its acquisition by Mylan in February 2015 EU European Union Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended Famy Life Sciences Famy Life Sciences Private Limited FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration Form 10-K This annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 GA Depot Long-acting glatiramer acetate depot product GDPR The EU s General Data Protection Regulation Global Systemically Important Banks Financial institutions that are considered systemically important by the Financial Stability Board Greater China segment Viatris business segment that includes our operations primarily in the following markets: China, Taiwan and Hong Kong Gx Generic drugs Hatch-Waxman Act Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 HIPAA Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act HIV/AIDS Human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immune deficiency syndrome Idorsia Idorsia Pharmaceuticals Ltd. INN International NonProprietary Name IPR D In-process research and development IRS U.S. Internal Revenue Service IT Information technology JANZ segment Viatris business segment that includes our operations in the following markets: Japan, Australia and New Zealand LAMA Long-acting muscarinic antagonist LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate Lilly Eli Lilly and Company LOE Loss of exclusivity Mapi Mapi Pharma Ltd. 3 Table of Contents Maximum Leverage Ratio The maximum consolidated leverage ratio financial covenant requiring maintenance of a maximum ratio of consolidated total indebtedness as of the end of any quarter to consolidated EBITDA for the trailing four quarters as defined in the related credit agreements from time to time MDL Multidistrict litigation Momenta Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. MPI Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mylan Mylan N.V. and its subsidiaries Mylan Inc. Euro Notes The 2.125% Senior Notes due 2025 issued by Mylan Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan II B.V., Viatris Inc. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes The 4.550% Senior Notes due 2028, 5.400% Senior Notes due 2043 and 5.200% Senior Notes due 2048 issued by Mylan Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan II B.V., Viatris Inc. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. NASDAQ The NASDAQ Stock Market NCDs noncommunicable diseases NCEs New Chemical Entities NDA New drug application NHS National Health Services Note Securitization Facility The note securitization facility entered into in August 2023 for borrowings up to $200 million and expiring in August 2024 OECD The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OTC Over-the-counter OTC Business Viatris OTC business that the Company has agreed to divest to Cooper Consumer Health SAS, including two manufacturing sites located in Merignac, France, and Confienza, Italy, and an R D site in Monza, Italy. This excludes the Company s rights for Viagra , Dymista (which, in certain limited markets, are sold as OTC products), and select OTC products in certain markets. OTC Transaction On October 1, 2023, Viatris announced it had received an offer for the divestiture of its OTC Business. Oyster Point Oyster Point Pharma, Inc. PBMs Pharmacy benefit managers PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Pending Announced Divestitures The remaining Announced Divestitures that have not been consummated Pfizer Pfizer Inc. Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan 401(k) retirement plan with a profit sharing component for non-union represented employees PSUs Performance awards QCE Quality consistency evaluation R D Research and development Receivables Facility The $400 million accounts receivable entered into in August 2020 and expiring in April 2025 Registered Upjohn Notes The 1.650% Senior Notes due 2025, 2.300% Senior Notes due 2027, 2.700% Senior Notes due 2030, 3.850% Senior Notes due 2040 and 4.000% Senior Notes due 2050 originally issued on October 29, 2021 registered with the SEC in exchange for the corresponding Unregistered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes in a similar aggregate principal amount and with terms substantially identical to the corresponding Unregistered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes and fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. Respiratory Delivery Platform Pfizer s proprietary dry powder inhaler delivery platform Restricted Stock Awards The Company s nonvested restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards, including PSUs Revance Revance Therapeutics, Inc. 4 Table of Contents Revolving Facility The $4.0 billion revolving facility dated as of July 1, 2021, by and among Viatris, certain lenders and issuing banks from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent RICO Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ROU asset Right-of-use asset Sanofi Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC SARs Stock Appreciation Rights SDNY U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended Senior U.S. Dollar Notes The Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes, the Utah U.S. Dollar Notes and the Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes, collectively Separation Pfizer's transfer to Upjohn of substantially all the assets and liabilities comprising the Upjohn Business Separation and Distribution Agreement Separation and Distribution Agreement between Viatris and Pfizer, dated as of July 29, 2019, as amended from time to time SG A Selling, general and administrative expenses SOFR Secured overnight financial rate stock awards Stock options and SARs Tax Matters Agreement The agreement entered into by Pfizer and Viatris in connection with the Separation and the Distribution that governs the parties respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes, including taxes arising in the ordinary course of business and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the Distribution or certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free transactions Teva Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. Theravance Biopharma Theravance Biopharma, Inc. TSA Transition services agreement U.K. United Kingdom U.S. United States U.S. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Unregistered Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes The 1.650% Senior Notes due 2025, 2.300% Senior Notes due 2027, 2.700% Senior Notes due 2030, 3.850% Senior Notes due 2040 and 4.000% Senior Notes due 2050 originally issued on June 22, 2020 by Upjohn Inc. (now Viatris Inc.) in a private offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. Upjohn Upjohn Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer prior to the Distribution, that combined with Mylan and was renamed Viatris Inc. Upjohn Business Pfizer s off-patent branded and generic established medicines business that, in connection with the Combination, was separated from Pfizer and combined with Mylan to form Viatris Upjohn Distributor Markets Select geographic markets that were part of the Combination that are smaller in nature and in which we had no established infrastructure prior to or following the Combination and that the Company intends to divest Upjohn Euro Notes Senior unsecured notes denominated in euros and issued by Upjohn Finance B.V. pursuant to an indenture dated June 23, 2020 Upjohn U.S. Dollar Notes Senior unsecured notes denominated in U.S. dollars and originally issued by Upjohn Inc. or Viatris Inc. pursuant to an indenture dated June 22, 2020 and fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. URP Universal reimbursement pricing Utah Acquisition Sub Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Viatris Utah Euro Notes The 2.250% Senior Notes due 2024 and 3.125% Senior Notes due 2028 issued by Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Viatris Inc. and Mylan II B.V. 5 Table of Contents Utah U.S. Dollar Notes The 3.950% Senior Notes due 2026 and 5.250% Senior Notes due 2046 issued by Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Viatris Inc. and Mylan II B.V. VA Department of Veterans Affairs VBP Volume-based procurement Viatris Viatris Inc., formerly known as Upjohn Inc. prior to the completion of the Combination Viatris Board The board of directors of Viatris Inc. Viatris Bylaws The amended and restated bylaws of Viatris Inc. Viatris Charter Amended and restated certificate of incorporation of Viatris Inc., as amended WHO World Health Organization YEN Term Loan Facility The 40 billion term loan agreement dated as of July 1, 2021, among Viatris, the guarantors from time to time party thereto, the lenders from time to time party thereto and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., as administrative agent 6 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business About Viatris Viatris is a global healthcare company which we believe is uniquely positioned to bridge the traditional divide between generics and brands, combining the best of both to more holistically address healthcare needs globally. With a mission to empower people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life, Viatris provides access at scale, currently supplying high-quality medicines to approximately 1 billion patients around the world annually and touching all of life s moments, from birth to the end of life, acute conditions to chronic diseases. With our exceptionally extensive and diverse portfolio of medicines, a one-of-a-kind global supply chain designed to reach more people when and where they need them, and the scientific expertise to address some of the world's most enduring health challenges, access takes on deep meaning at Viatris. Viatris executive management team is focused on ensuring that the Company is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers and other key stakeholders. With a global workforce of approximately 38,000, the Company has industry leading commercial, R D, regulatory, manufacturing, legal and medical expertise complemented by a strong commitment to quality and an unparalleled geographic footprint to deliver high-quality medicines to patients in more than 165 countries and territories. As of December 31, 2023, Viatris portfolio comprised more than 1,400 approved molecules across a wide range of key therapeutic areas, including globally recognized iconic and key brands and generics, including complex products, and the Company operated approximately 40 manufacturing sites worldwide that produce oral solid doses, injectables, complex dosage forms and APIs. As discussed below, Viatris has entered into certain transactions, including the Pending Announced Divestitures. Viatris is headquartered in the U.S., with global centers in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Shanghai, China and Hyderabad, India. Viatris has announced various strategic initiatives, transactions and business arrangements, including our two-phased strategic vision. In Phase 1 of this strategy, we have focused on stabilizing the base business, delivering on our pipeline, reducing debt, maintaining an investment grade credit rating and returning capital to shareholders. The Company also entered into certain transactions in order to simplify its business, accelerate paydown of debt and unlock shareholder value, including the Biocon Biologics Transaction and the Announced Divestitures. During Phase 2, the Company anticipates a period of renewed growth and leadership as it intends to move up the value chain by focusing on more complex and innovative products to build a more durable higher margin portfolio, while continuing to explore opportunities to unlock shareholder value. On October 1, 2023, the Company announced it received an offer for the divestiture of its OTC Business, and entered into definitive agreements to divest its women s healthcare business and, separately, in another transaction, its rights to two women s healthcare products in certain countries, its API business in India and commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets. The divestiture of the women s healthcare business is primarily related to our oral and injectable contraceptives and does not include all of our women s healthcare related products; as an example, our Xulane product in the U.S. is excluded. The transaction to divest the Company s rights to two women s healthcare products in certain countries (other than in the U.K., which remains subject to regulatory approval) closed in December 2023. The divestitures of the commercialization rights in certain of the Upjohn Distributor Markets closed during 2023. Additionally, we expect to consummate the divestiture of our women s healthcare business and our API business in India by the end of the first quarter of 2024, and in January 2024, we exercised our option to accept the offer in the OTC Transaction and entered into a definitive transaction agreement with respect to such OTC Transaction. We currently expect the OTC Transaction to close by mid-year 2024. The transactions that have not yet closed remain subject to regulatory approvals, receipt of required consents and other closing conditions, including, in the case of the API business divestiture, a financing condition. Under the terms of the agreements, Viatris expects to receive gross proceeds of up to approximately $2.17 billion for the OTC Business and up to approximately $1.4 billion for the remaining divestitures. Upon closing of the divestitures of the women s healthcare and API businesses, the Company expects to record gains for the differences between the expected consideration to be received and the carrying values of the businesses to be divested. The OTC, API and women s healthcare businesses are deemed businesses for U.S. GAAP accounting purposes. As such, the assets and liabilities include an allocation of goodwill. The sale of the rights to two women s healthcare products in certain countries was accounted for as an asset sale. In conjunction with these transactions, Viatris and the respective buyers have entered or will enter into various agreements to provide a framework for our relationship with the respective buyers after the closing of the divestitures, including TSAs, manufacturing and supply agreements, and distribution agreements, as necessary. 7 Table of Contents On February 28, 2024, the Company announced that it will acquire the development programs and certain personnel related to selatogrel and cenerimod from Idorsia in exchange for an upfront payment to Idorsia of $350 million, potential development and regulatory milestone payments, and certain contingent payments of additional sales milestone payments and tiered sales royalties. Viatris and Idorsia will both contribute to the development costs for both programs. Viatris will have worldwide commercialization rights for both selatogrel and cenerimod (excluding, for cenerimod only, Japan, South Korea and certain countries in the Asia-Pacific region). The agreements also provide Viatris a right of first refusal and a right of first negotiation for certain other assets in Idorsia s pipeline. The closing of the transaction is subject to certain closing conditions. During the first quarter of 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of Oyster Point for approximately $427.4 million in cash, which included $11 per share paid to Oyster Point stockholders through a tender offer, payment for vested share-based awards, and the repayment of the Oyster Point debt. Oyster Point is focused on the discovery, development, and commercialization of first-in-class pharmaceutical therapies to treat ophthalmic diseases. On November 7, 2022, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining equity shares of Famy Life Sciences, a privately-owned research company with a complementary portfolio of ophthalmology therapies under development, for consideration of $281 million. The transaction to acquire the remaining equity shares of Famy Life Sciences closed during the first quarter of 2023. Ophthalmology is one of the key therapeutic areas of focus of the Company. With the combination of Viatris' global commercial footprint, R D and regulatory capabilities and supply chain, along with Oyster Point's deep knowledge of the ophthalmology space from a clinical, medical, regulatory and commercial perspective including Tyrvaya and Famy Life Sciences' Phase III-ready pipeline, the Company believes it has the foundation to create a leading global ophthalmology franchise, accelerating efforts to address the unmet needs of patients with ophthalmic disease and the eye care professionals who treat them. On November 29, 2022, Viatris completed the transaction to contribute its biosimilars portfolio to Biocon Biologics to create what it expects to be a vertically integrated global biosimilars leader. Under the terms of the Biocon Agreement, Viatris received $3 billion in consideration in the form of a $2 billion cash payment, adjusted as set forth in the Biocon Agreement, and approximately $1 billion of CCPS representing a stake of approximately 12.9% (on a fully diluted basis) in Biocon Biologics. Viatris also is entitled to $335 million of additional cash payments in 2024. In addition, Viatris and Biocon Biologics have agreed to a closing working capital target of $250 million, of which $220 million was paid during 2023. The remaining amount may become payable to Biocon Biologics in connection with certain events in the future, depending on the valuations attributable to such events. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company recognized a gain on sale of approximately $1.75 billion and has not recognized the results of the business in its consolidated financial statements subsequent to November 29, 2022. At the time of closing of the Biocon Biologics Transaction, Viatris and Biocon Biologics also entered an agreement pursuant to which Viatris was providing commercialization and certain other transition services on behalf of Biocon Biologics, including billings, collections and the remittance of rebates, to ensure business continuity for patients, customers and colleagues. Biocon Biologics had substantially exited all transition services with Viatris as of December 31, 2023. Unless otherwise indicated, industry data included in this Item 1 are sourced from IQVIA Holdings Inc. and are for the twelve months ended November 2023 and Viatris product and other company data included in this Item 1 are from internal sources and are as of November 30, 2023. Organization Upjohn was incorporated in Delaware on February 14, 2019 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer to operate the Upjohn Business. Effective as of November 16, 2020, Upjohn, Mylan and Pfizer consummated the combination of Mylan with the Upjohn Business through a Reverse Morris Trust transaction, Viatris became the parent entity of the combined Upjohn Business and Mylan business, and Upjohn changed its name to Viatris Inc. . As a result of the Combination, Mylan ceased to exist as a separate legal entity after merging with and into Mylan II B.V., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Viatris. The Upjohn Business was a global, primarily off-patent branded and generic established medicines business, which included 20 primarily off-patent oral solid dose legacy brands, such as Lyrica , Lipitor , Celebrex and Viagra . 8 Table of Contents Mylan was founded in 1961 as a privately-owned company and grew over time into one of the largest manufacturers of generic drugs in the U.S. Mylan became a publicly traded company in 1973. Mylan s strategy then led to many acquisitions which played a significant role in the evolution of that company, including Matrix Laboratories Limited (2007); Merck KGaA s generic and specialty pharmaceutical business (2007); the EPD Business (2015) and Meda AB (publ.) (2016). These acquisitions assisted in creating robust research, manufacturing, supply chain and commercial platforms on a global scale; substantially expanding its portfolio of medicines; diversifying by geography, product type and channel; maintaining its commitment to quality; and cultivating its global workforce. Business Model and Operations Viatris is a new kind of healthcare company - a Next-Gen Hybrid Pharmaceutical Company with a relentless focus on delivering access at scale that has been built for the future of healthcare. Our strength is in our diversity and in our mission to empower people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life. Our business and operating model is deliberately designed and implemented to deliver on our strategy to provide and sustain access to medicine at scale. Underpinned by Viatris relevance and success in meeting evolving healthcare needs, we seek to create value for and together with our key stakeholders the people who trust our medicines every day, the health systems who rely on us, the people who make up Viatris, our partners and the investors who believe in our ability to execute on our ambitious mission. We are convinced that patients and systems around the world are best served by a healthcare company applying a well-rounded and long-term approach, maintaining viability while working to manage inherent risks and opportunities and continuously striving to advance sustainable operations and responsible practices in a focused way. We see healthcare not as it is, but as it should be. We act courageously and believe we are uniquely positioned to be a source of stability in a world of evolving healthcare needs. Viatris empowers people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life. We do so via Access , Leadership and Partnership . ACCESS Viatris provides high-quality, trusted medicines, regardless of geography or circumstance. As noted above access is fundamental to our mission. It is not an initiative; it is our business model, and it is personal. It begins with our ability to sustainably deliver quality medicines to people, regardless of geography or circumstance. We believe we are a company uniquely positioned to bridge the traditional divide between generics and brands, combining the best of both to more holistically address healthcare needs globally. We are committed to improving access to high-quality medicines and working to ensure a reliable supply so patients can get the treatments they need, when and where they need them. Our global portfolio, supported by our science, medical and manufacturing expertise, delivers global iconic and key brands, generics, including complex products, and OTC products. As discussed above, the Company has entered into a definitive agreement to divest its OTC Business. We see access as fundamental to empowering people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life a powerful concept in challenging times. With what we believe is an extensive portfolio of medicines to meet nearly every health need, a one-of-a-kind global supply chain designed to reach more people with health solutions when and where they need them, and the scientific expertise to address some of the world s most enduring health challenges, access takes on deeper meaning at Viatris. From our unique vantage point, we touch all of life s moments, from birth to the end of life, acute conditions to chronic diseases. We see across multiple therapeutic areas to the person at the center of their own un