Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 19 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 19 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 19 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 19 Item 9B. Other Information 20 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 20 Item 11. Executive Compensation 21 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 21 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 21 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 21 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 22 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 27 Signatures 27 Certifications Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon or the Company) is a holding company that, acting through its subsidiaries, is one of the world s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and government entities. With a presence around the world, we offer voice, data and video services and solutions on our networks that are designed to meet customers demand for mobility, reliable network connectivity, security and control. Formerly known as Bell Atlantic Corporation (Bell Atlantic), we were incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We began doing business as Verizon on June 30, 2000 following our merger with GTE Corporation. We have a highly diverse workforce of approximately 135,000 employees as of December 31, 2019 . Our principal executive offices are located at 1095 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 (telephone number 212-395-1000). In November 2018, we announced a strategic reorganization of our business. Under the new structure, effective April 1, 2019, there are two reportable segments that we operate and manage as strategic business units - Verizon Consumer Group ( Consumer ) and Verizon Business Group ( Business ) . Verizon Consumer Group Our Consumer segment provides consumer-focused wireless and wireline communications services and products. Our wireless services are provided across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the United States (U.S.) under the Verizon brand and through wholesale and other arrangements. Our wireline services are provided in nine states in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern U.S., as well as Washington D.C., over our 100% fiber-optic network under the Fios brand and over a traditional copper-based network to customers who are not served by Fios. In 2019 , the Consumer segment s revenues were $91.1 billion , representing approximately 69% of Verizon s consolidated revenues. As of December 31, 2019 , Consumer had approximately 95 million wireless retail connections, 6 million broadband connections and 4 million Fios video connections. Verizon Business Group Our Business segment provides wireless and wireline communications services and products, video and data services, corporate networking solutions, security and managed network services, local and long distance voice services and network access to deliver various Internet of Things (IoT) services and products. We provide these products and services to businesses, government customers and wireless and wireline carriers across the U.S. and select products and services to customers around the world. In 2019 , the Business segment's revenues were $31.4 billion , representing approximately 24% of Verizon s consolidated revenues. As of December 31, 2019 , Business had approximately 25 million wireless retail postpaid connections and approximately 489 thousand broadband connections. Additional discussion of our reportable segments is included in the 2019 Verizon Annual Report to Shareholders under the headings "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" and - "Segment Results of Operations" and in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements of Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries, which are incorporated by reference into this report. Service and Product Offerings Our Consumer segment's wireless and wireline products and services are available to our retail customers, as well as resellers that purchase wireless network access from us on a wholesale basis. Our Business segment s wireless and wireline products and services are organized by the primary customer groups targeted by these offerings: Global Enterprise, Small and Medium Business, Public Sector and Other, and Wholesale. Wireless We offer wireless services and equipment to customers of both Consumer and Business. Wireless Services Our Consumer and Business segments provide a wide variety of wireless services accessible on a broad range of devices. Customers can obtain our wireless services on a postpaid or prepaid basis. Retail (non-wholesale) postpaid accounts primarily represent retail customers that are directly served and managed by Verizon and use Verizon branded services. A single account may include monthly wireless services for a variety of connected devices. A retail postpaid connection represents an individual line of service for a wireless device for which a customer is generally billed one month in advance for a monthly access charge in return for access to and usage of network services. Our prepaid service is offered only to Consumer customers and enables individuals to obtain wireless services without credit verification by paying for all services in advance. Approximately 96% of our Consumer retail connections were postpaid connections as of December 31, 2019 . 4 Table of Contents We offer various postpaid and prepaid service plans tailored to the needs of our customers. Depending on those needs at a particular time, our plans may include features related to, among other things: unlimited or metered domestic and/or international voice, data, and texting; the ability to share data allowances and/or use data allowances in different periods; high definition voice and video features; the ability to use a device as a Wi-Fi hotspot; and varying data rates depending on the plan and usage on that plan. Our service offerings vary from time to time based on customer needs, technology changes and market conditions and may be provided as standard plans or as part of limited time promotional offers . Access to the Internet is available on all smartphones and nearly all basic phones. In addition, our customers can access the Internet at broadband speeds on notebook computers and tablets that are either wireless-enabled or that are used in conjunction with separate dedicated devices that provide a mobile Wi-Fi connection. As of January 2017, we no longer offer Consumer customers new fixed-term, subsidized service plans for phones; however, we continue to offer subsidized plans to our Business customers. We also continue to service existing plans for customers who have not yet purchased and activated devices under the Verizon device payment program. Wireless Equipment Consumer and Business offer several categories of wireless equipment to customers, including a variety of smartphones and other handsets, wireless-enabled Internet devices, such as tablets, laptop computers and netbooks, and other wireless-enabled connected devices, such as smart watches and other wearables . In certain cases, we permit customers to acquire equipment from us using device payment plans, which permit the customer to pay for the device in installments over time. Verizon Consumer Group In addition to the wireless services and equipment discussed above, Consumer sells residential fixed connectivity solutions, including Internet, video and voice services, and wireless network access to resellers on a wholesale basis. Residential Fixed Services . We provide residential fixed connectivity solutions to customers over our 100% fiber-optic network under the Fios brand, and over a traditional copper-based network to customers who are not served by Fios. During 2018, we commercially launched fifth-generation (5G) wireless technology for the home (5G Home) on proprietary standards in four U.S. markets and on global standards in a fifth market in 2019. We offer residential fixed services tailored to the needs of our customers. Depending on those needs at a particular time, our services may include features related to, among other things: Internet access at different speed tiers using fiber-optic, copper or wireless technology; video services that may feature a variety of channel options, video on demand products, cloud-based services and digital video recording capabilities; over-the-top video services; and voice services. Network Access Services. We sell network access to mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) on a wholesale basis, who in turn resell wireless service under their own brand(s) to consumers. Verizon Business Group In addition to the wireless services and equipment discussed above, our Business segment provides communications products and enhanced services, including video and data services, corporate networking solutions, security and managed network services, local and long distance voice services and network access to deliver various IoT products and services. Global Enterprise Global Enterprise offers services to large businesses, which are identified based on their size and volume of business with Verizon, as well as non-U.S. public sector customers. In 2019 , Global Enterprise revenues were $10.8 billion , representing approximately 34% of Business s total revenues. Global Enterprise offers a broad portfolio of connectivity, security and professional services designed to enable our customers to optimize their business operations, mitigate business risks and capitalize on data. These services include the following: Network Services . We offer a portfolio of network connectivity products to help our customers connect with their employees, partners, vendors, and customers. These products include private networking services, private cloud connectivity services, virtual and software defined networking services, and Internet access services. Advanced Communications Services. We offer a suite of services to our customers to help them communicate with their employees, partners, vendors, constituents and customers. These products include Internet Protocol (IP)-based voice services, unified communications and collaboration tools and customer contact center solutions. Security services . We offer a suite of management and data security services that help our customers protect, detect and respond to security threats to their networks, data, applications and infrastructure. Core services . We provide a portfolio of domestic and global voice and data solutions utilizing traditional telecommunications technology, including voice calling, messaging services, conferencing, contact center solutions and private line and data access networks. Core services also include the provision of customer premises equipment, and installation, maintenance and site services. 5 Table of Contents IoT services . We provide the network access required to deliver various IoT products and services. We work with companies that purchase network access from us to connect their Open Development-certified devices, bundled together with their own solutions, which they sell to end users. We are building IoT capabilities by leveraging business models that monetize usage on our networks at the connectivity, platform and solution layers. Small and Medium Business Small and Medium Business offers wireless services and equipment, tailored voice and networking products, Fios services, IP networking, advanced voice solutions, security and managed information technology (IT) services to our U.S.-based customers that do not meet the requirements to be categorized as Global Enterprise. In 2019 , Small and Medium Business revenues were $11.5 billion , representing approximately 36% of Business s total revenues. In addition to the wireless services and equipment discussed above, Small and Medium Business provides fixed connectivity solutions comparable to the residential fixed services provided by Consumer, as well as business services and connectivity similar to the products and services offered by Global Enterprise, in each case with features and pricing designed to address the needs of small and medium businesses. Public Sector and Other Public Sector and Other offers wireless products and services as well as wireline connectivity and managed solutions to U.S. federal, state and local governments and educational institutions. These services include the business services and connectivity similar to the products and services offered by Global Enterprise, in each case, with features and pricing designed to address the needs of governments and educational institutions. In 2019 , Public Sector and Other revenues were $5.9 billion , representing approximately 19% of Business s total revenues. Public Sector and Other also includes solutions that support fleet tracking management, compliance management, field service management, asset tracking and other types of mobile resource management in the United States and around the world. Wholesale Wholesale offers wireline communications services including data, voice, local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance, and wireless carriers that use our facilities to provide services to their customers. In 2019 , Wholesale revenues were $3.2 billion , representing approximately 10% of Business s total revenues. A portion of Wholesale revenues are generated by a few large telecommunications companies, most of which compete directly with us. Wholesale's services include: Data services . We offer a portfolio of data services with varying speeds and options to enhance our Wholesale customers networks and provide connections to their end-users and subscribers. Voice services . We provide switched access services that allow carriers to complete their end-user calls that originate or terminate within our territory. In addition, we provide originating and terminating voice services throughout the U.S. and globally utilizing our TDM and VoIP networks. Local services. We offer an array of local dial tone and broadband services to competitive local exchange carriers, some of which are offered to comply with telecommunications regulations. In addition, we offer services such as colocation, resale and unbundled network elements in compliance with applicable regulations. Distribution We use a combination of direct, indirect and alternative distribution channels to market and distribute our products and services to Consumer customers. Our direct channel, including our company-operated stores, is a core component of our distribution strategy. Our sales and service centers also represent a significant distribution channel for our services. Our indirect/digital partners channel includes agents that sell our wireless and wireline products and services at retail locations throughout the U.S., as well as through the Internet. The majority of these sales are made under exclusive selling arrangements with us. We also have relationships with high-profile national retailers that sell our wireless and wireline products and services, as well as convenience store chains that sell our wireless prepaid products and services. In 2019, we grew our digital channel and expanded omni channel experiences for our customers to offer choice and convenience. In addition to our direct channel, our Business segment has additional distribution channels that include business solution fulfillment provided by resellers, non-stocked device fulfillment performed by distributors and integrated mobility services provided by system integrators and resellers. Competition and Related Trends The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We expect competition to remain intense as traditional and non-traditional participants seek increased market share. 6 Table of Contents With respect to our wireless connectivity products and services, we compete against other national wireless service providers, including AT T Inc., Sprint Corporation and T-Mobile USA, Inc., as well as various regional wireless service providers. We also compete for retail activations with resellers that buy bulk wholesale service from wireless service providers, including Verizon, and resell it to their customers. Resellers may include cable companies. Competition remains intense as a result of high rates of smartphone penetration in the wireless market, increased network investment by our competitors, the development and deployment of new technologies, such as 5G, the introduction of new products and services, offerings that include additional premium content, new market entrants, the availability of additional licensed and unlicensed spectrum, and regulatory changes. In 2019, we began offering Apple Music and Disney+ to customers as part of their Unlimited plans. Competition may also increase as smaller, stand-alone wireless service providers merge or transfer licenses to larger, better capitalized wireless service providers and as MVNOs resell wireless communication services. We also face competition from other communications and technology companies seeking to increase their brand recognition and capture customer revenue with respect to the provision of wireless products and services, in addition to non-traditional offerings in mobile data. For example, Microsoft Corporation, Alphabet Inc., Apple Inc. and others are offering alternative means for making wireless voice calls that, in certain cases, can be used in lieu of the wireless provider s voice service, as well as alternative means of accessing video content. With respect to our wireline connectivity services, we compete against cable companies, wireless service providers, domestic and foreign telecommunications providers, satellite television companies, Internet service providers, over-the-top (OTT) providers and other companies that offer network services and managed enterprise solutions. Cable operators have increased the size and capacity of their networks in order to deliver digital products and services. We introduced offerings that provide customized Internet and video packages. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through strategic relationships. Customers have more choices for obtaining video content from various online services. We expect the market will continue to shift from traditional linear video to OTT offerings. We expect customer migration from traditional voice services to wireless services to continue as a growing number of customers place greater value on mobility and wireless companies position their services as a landline alternative. We also face increasing competition from cable operators and other providers of VoIP services, as well as Internet portal providers. We believe that the following are the most important competitive factors and trends in the telecommunications industry: Network reliability, speed and coverage. We consider networks that consistently provide high-quality, fast and reliable service to be a key differentiator in the market and driver of customer satisfaction. Lower prices, improved service quality and new service offerings, which in many cases include video content, have led to increased customer usage of connectivity services. We and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can meet these increasing capacity usage requirements and offer highly reliable national coverage. Pricing. With respect to wireless services and equipment, pricing plays an important role in the wireless competitive landscape. As the demand for wireless services continues to grow, wireless service providers are offering a range of service plans at competitive prices. Many wireless service providers also bundle wireless service offerings with other products and offer promotional pricing and incentives, some of which may be targeted specifically to customers of Verizon. We and other wireless service providers, as well as equipment manufacturers, offer device payment options, which provide customers with the ability to pay for their device over a period of time, and some providers offer device leasing arrangements. In addition, aggressive device promotions have become more common in an effort to gain a greater share of subscribers interested in changing carriers. With respect to wireline services, pricing is used by competitors to capture market share from incumbents, and it is a significant factor as non-traditional modes of providing communication services emerge and new entrants compete for customers. For example, VoIP and portal-based voice and video calling is often free or nearly free to customers and is often supported by advertising revenues. Customer service. We believe that high-quality customer service is a key factor in retaining customers and attracting new customers, including those of other providers. Our customer service, retention and satisfaction programs are based on providing customers with convenient and easy-to-use products and services and focusing on their needs in order to promote long-term relationships and minimize churn. The Verizon Up program, for example, was launched to promote long-term relationships with our Consumer customers. The program offers a variety of rewards to customers in exchange for points in connection with their account-related transactions. Customer service is highly valued by our Business customers. We provide Global Enterprise and Public Sector and Other customers with ready access to their system and performance information, and we conduct proactive testing of our networks to identify issues before they affect our customers. We service our Small and Medium Business customers through service representatives and online support, as well as through store-based representatives for small business customers. For Wholesale customers, we pursue service improvement through continued system automation initiatives. Product differentiation. Customer and revenue growth are increasingly dependent on the development of new and enhanced products and services, as the delivery of new and innovative products and services has been accelerating. Customers are shifting their focus from access to applications and are seeking ways to leverage their broadband, video and wireless connections. To compete effectively, providers need to continuously review, improve and refine their product portfolio and develop and rapidly deploy new products and services tailored to the needs of customers. We continue to pursue the development and rapid deployment of new and innovative products and services, both independently and in collaboration with application providers, content providers and device manufacturers. Features such as wireless and wireline inter-operability are becoming increasingly important, driven by both customer demand and technological advancement. 7 Table of Contents Sales and distribution. A key to achieving sales success in the consumer and small and medium business sectors of the wireless industry is the reach and quality of sales channels and distribution points. We seek to optimally vary distribution channels among our company-operated stores selling wireless products and services, outside sales teams and telemarketing, web-based sales and fulfillment capabilities, our extensive indirect distribution network of retail outlets and our sale of wireless service to resellers, which resell wireless services to their end-users. In addition to these competitive factors and trends, companies with a global presence are increasingly competing with us in our Business segment. A relatively small number of telecommunications and integrated service providers with global operations serve customers in the global enterprise market and, to a lesser extent, the global wholesale market. We compete with these providers for large contracts to provide integrated solutions to global enterprises. Many of these companies have strong market presence, brand recognition and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying competition that may affect our future revenue growth. In the Global Enterprise and Public Sector and Other markets, competition remains high, primarily as a result of increased industry focus on technology convergence. We compete in this area with system integrators, carriers, and hardware and software providers. In addition, some of the largest information technology services companies are making strategic acquisitions, divesting non-strategic assets and forging new alliances to improve their cost structure. Many new alliances and acquisitions have focused on emerging fields, such as cloud computing, software defined network, communication applications and other computing tasks via networks, rather than by the use of in-house machines. In the Small and Medium Business market, customer purchasing behaviors and preferences continue to evolve. Solution speed and simplicity with user interfaces that have a consumer-like "look and feel" are becoming key differentiators for customers who are seeking full life-cycle offers that simplify the process of starting, running and growing their businesses. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through strategic relationships. Our Wholesale business competes with traditional carriers for long-haul, voice and IP services. In addition, mobile video and data needs are driving a greater need for wireless backhaul. Network providers, cable companies and niche players are competitors for this business opportunity. Verizon Media Our media business, Verizon Media, includes diverse media and technology brands that serve both consumers and businesses. Verizon Media provides consumers with owned and operated and third-party search properties as well as mail, news, finance, sports and entertainment offerings, and provides other businesses and partners access to consumers through digital advertising, content delivery and video streaming platforms. In 2019 , Verizon Media's revenues were $7.5 billion . Verizon Media Products and Solutions Ad Platform Our Verizon Media Ad Platform provides advertisers and publishers with a simplified suite of intelligent advertising solutions across desktop, mobile and television devices. Verizon Media's business is comprised primarily of search advertising, display advertising, Ecommerce and subscriptions. Search advertising . Our search properties serve as a guide for users to discover information on the Internet. Verizon Media serves click-based search advertisements generated by proprietary algorithmic technology, as well as advertisements from partners. Verizon Media provides the underlying search products that facilitate user searches within Verizon Media and third-party partner properties. Display advertising. Display advertising is made up of both graphical and performance-based advertising and takes the form of impression-based contracts, time-based contracts and performance-based contracts. Verizon Media display ads leverage proprietary data signals to identify and engage users on Verizon Media properties and across the web. Through Verizon Media Ad Platform, we provide customers the ability to buy advertising inventory, measure campaigns across screens and advertising formats using self-serve technology or our managed services. We also provide publishers with the ability to monetize their ad inventory. Ecommerce. Our Ecommerce offering includes different types of business models, including facilitating transactions between businesses and consumers, enabling businesses that facilitate transactions for other businesses, and facilitating transactions between consumers. Subscription memberships. Our paid subscription offerings include premium content and services across our mail, news, finance, sports and entertainment properties, privacy and security solutions and computer protection. Verizon Media Platform As the digital platform reshapes the delivery of media and entertainment content, there is an increasing need for stable, high-quality video delivery platforms. Our Media Platform offers a scalable platform for delivering content, including live broadcasts, video on demand, games, software and websites to our customers on their devices at any time. This platform is targeted at media and entertainment companies and other businesses that deliver their digital products and services through the Internet. 8 Table of Contents Global Network and Technology Our global network architecture is used by both Consumer and Business. Our network technology platforms include both wireless and wireline technologies. Network Evolution We are evolving the architecture of our networks to a next-generation multi-use platform, providing improved efficiency and virtualization, increased automation and opportunities for edge computing services that will support both our fiber-based and radio access network technologies. We call this the Intelligent Edge Network. We expect that this new architecture will simplify operations by eliminating legacy network elements, improve our fourth-generation ( 4G ) Long-Term Evolution ( LTE ) wireless coverage, speed the deployment of 5G wireless technology and create new opportunities in the business