Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B. Other Information 83 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 83 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 84 Item 11. Executive Compensation 84 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 84 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 84 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 84 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 85 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 89 2 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, doing business as Wabtec Corporation, is a Delaware corporation with headquarters at 30 Isabella Street in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Our telephone number is 412-825-1000, and our website is located at www.wabteccorp.com . Except as the context otherwise requires, all references to we , our , us , the Company and Wabtec refer to Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. George Westinghouse founded the original Westinghouse Air Brake Co. in 1869 when he invented the air brake. Westinghouse Air Brake Company ( WABCO ) was formed in 1990 when it acquired certain assets and operations from American Standard, Inc., now known as Trane ( Trane ). The Company went public on the New York Stock Exchange in 1995. Throughout the years, the Company has made a number of strategic acquisitions leading the Company to where it is today. These have primarily included: the 1999 merger with MotivePower Industries, Inc. whereby the Company adopted its current name of Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, or Wabtec; the 2017 acquisition of Faiveley Transport, S.A. ( Faiveley Transport ), a leading provider of value-added, integrated systems and services, primarily for the global transit rail market. Based in France, the Faiveley Transport business has roots to 1919 and made Wabtec a leader in manufacturing pantographs, automatic door mechanisms, air conditioning systems, railway braking systems and couplers; and, the 2019 acquisition of GE Transportation, a business unit of General Electric Company. This brought a global technology leader and supplier of locomotives, equipment, services and digital solutions to the rail, mining, marine, stationary power and drilling industries into Wabtec. As a result of those strategic acquisitions, as well as other smaller acquisitions and organic growth, Wabtec is a global provider of value-added, technology-based locomotives, equipment, systems and services for the freight rail and passenger transit industries, and the mining, marine, and industrial markets. Wabtec has approximately 29,000 employees, excluding contingent workers, and operations in over 50 countries. Our highly engineered products, which are intended to enhance safety, improve productivity and reduce maintenance costs for customers, can be found on most locomotives, freight cars, passenger transit cars and buses around the world. Industry Overview The Company primarily serves the global freight rail and passenger transit industries. As such, our operating results are largely dependent on the level of activity, financial condition and capital spending plans of freight railroads and passenger transit agencies around the world, and transportation equipment manufacturers who serve those markets. Many factors influence these industries, including general economic conditions; traffic volumes, as measured by freight carloads and passenger ridership; government spending on public transportation; and investment in new technologies. In general, trends such as urbanization and growth in developing markets, sustainability and environmental awareness, investment in technology solutions, an aging equipment fleet, and growth in global trade are expected to drive continued investment in freight rail and passenger transit. The Association of the European Rail Industry, UNIFE, advocates for and represents European train builders and rail suppliers. UNIFE publishes a biennial market study that provides an overview of the market in its current form and a forecast of its future development in different regions and market segments. The 2022 biennial edition of the study concluded that the rail supply industry faced a moderate annual decline of 0.2% in the 2019 to 2020 period as a result of the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic but forecasts a recovery of the global rail supply market with a compound annual growth rate of 3% through 2027. As growth continues, Wabtec expects to have additional opportunities to provide products and services in these markets. New technologies offered by Wabtec can provide solutions to improve safety, cost and reliability of rail, as well as support the modernization of the global rail fleets. Consistent with the UNIFE study, increased investment in infrastructure improvements, digitalization and automation is expected, all of which would improve efficiency in the global rail industry. Business Segments and Products We provide our products and services through two principal business segments, the Freight Segment and the Transit Segment, both of which have different market characteristics and business drivers. The Freight Segment primarily manufactures new and modernized locomotives; provides aftermarket parts and services to existing locomotives; provides components to new and existing freight cars; builds new commuter locomotives; supplies rail control and infrastructure products including electronics, positive train control equipment, signal design and engineering services; provides a comprehensive suite of 3 software-enabled solutions designed to improve customer safety, efficiency and productivity in the transportation and mining industries; overhauls locomotives; and provides heat exchangers and cooling systems for rail and other industrial markets. Customers include large, publicly traded railroads, leasing companies, manufacturers of original equipment such as locomotives and freight cars, utilities, and companies in the mining, marine, and industrial markets. We are a global manufacturer of diesel-electric locomotives for freight railroads producing essential products and solutions that help railroads reduce operating costs, decrease fuel use, minimize downtime and comply with emissions standards. As a result of the large base of nearly 24,000 locomotives currently in use, Wabtec's Services product lines of modernizing, rebuilding and overhauling, remanufacturing, maintaining, and exchanging locomotives and components in the aftermarkets provides a significant, recurring revenue stream. In 2023, the Freight Segment accounted for approximately 72% of Wabtec s total net sales, with approximately 58% of its net sales in the U.S. and approximately 66% of the Freight Segment s net sales were in the aftermarket. The Transit Segment primarily manufactures and services components for new and existing passenger transit vehicles, typically regional trains, high speed trains, subway cars, light-rail vehicles and buses; supplies rail control and infrastructure products including electronics, signal design and engineering services; and refurbishes passenger transit vehicles. Customers include public transit authorities and municipalities, leasing companies, and manufacturers of passenger transit vehicles and buses around the world. In 2023, the Transit Segment accounted for approximately 28% of our total net sales, with approximately 19% of its net sales in the U.S. Approximately 55% of the Transit Segment s net sales are in the aftermarket. The following is a summary of our primary products and services in both aftermarket and original equipment across both of our business segments: Equipment: Diesel-electric, battery, and liquid natural gas powered locomotives for freight and transit Engines, electric motors and premium propulsion systems used in locomotives, mining, marine, stationary power and drilling applications Marine and mining products Digital Intelligence Products: Positive Train Control ("PTC") equipment and electronically controlled pneumatic braking products Railway electronics, including event recorders, monitoring equipment and end of train devices Signal design and engineering services Train performance such as distributed locomotive power, train 'cruise control', and train remote control Transport intelligence such as Industrial/mobile Internet of Things (IoT) hardware software, edge-to-cloud, on and off-board analytics rules, and asset performance management Transport logistics such as rail and shipper transportation management and port visibility and optimization Network optimization such as rail network scheduling, dispatch and optimization, intermodal, terminal management and optimization, and rail yard management and optimization Components: Freight car trucks and braking equipment and related components for Freight applications Air compressors and dryers Heat transfer components and systems for diesel and gas engine cooling, generator and transformer coolers and high temperature applications Track and switch products New commuter and switcher locomotives Turbochargers for industrial and aftermarket vehicle applications Services: Freight locomotive overhauls, modernizations and refurbishment Master service agreements for locomotive and car maintenance Transit locomotive and car overhaul Unit exchange of locomotive components Maintenance of way equipment and services Transit Products: Railway and freight braking equipment and related components, including high-speed passenger transit vehicles Friction products, including brake shoes, discs and pads Heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment Access doors and platform screen doors Pantographs 4 Auxiliary power converter and battery charging Passenger information systems and closed-circuit television Signaling and railway electric relays Doors, window assemblies, accessibility lifts, ramps and electric charging solutions for buses Wabtec is utilizing a flexible and growing portfolio of freight rail and passenger transit products and innovative technologies to support customers sustainability goals and targets. From pioneering advancements to current signaling systems and network efficiency solutions, we are striving to increase the rail capacity to move more freight by train. Wabtec is working to reduce existing locomotive fleet emissions through fuel-efficiency solutions and testing renewable diesel and biofuels. We are developing advanced propulsion technologies such as the first heavy-haul 100% battery electric locomotive. In 2023, Wabtec secured several orders for new battery-electric locomotives and modernizations that will upgrade existing fleets to help our customers extend the service life of their fleet and improve performance and reliability. We are also conducting collaborative research and development efforts with the National Laboratories to support the use of hydrogen to lower emissions across the rail industry. In 2023, Norfolk Southern recognized Wabtec s innovations in modernizing locomotives with its inaugural Thoroughbred Sustainability Partner Award in recognition of energy efficiency, innovation, and environmental stewardship. Wabtec also is implementing energy-reducing technologies for the passenger transit sector. In 2022, Wabtec received sustainability awards from both the German Ministry of Transportation and Deutsche Bahn and for our Green Air heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) solution. In recent years, we have also introduced a number of significant new products, including PTC equipment that encompasses onboard digital data and global positioning communication protocols. We are making additional investments in this technology which we believe will provide customers with opportunities to improve safety and efficiency, in part through data analytics solutions. During 2023, Wabtec also expanded the Digital Intelligence portfolio with entry into the railcar telematics market. For additional information on our business segments, see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Competitive Strengths Through both organic growth and strategic acquisitions, Wabtec has developed the following competitive strengths: Iconic legacy and strong reputation with a history of over 150 years of innovation . Wabtec has been transforming the rail landscape through various innovations and technologies for over 150 years. We have a long history of advancing technologies to meet customer needs and have been recognized for the development and production of locomotives, equipment, including PTC equipment, and systems for the freight rail and passenger transit industries. We are also a service provider for freight rail and passenger transit vehicles. Breadth of product offering with a stable mix of original equipment market (OEM) and aftermarket business . Our comprehensive product portfolio and service offerings span the freight rail and passenger transit industries, as well as the bus, mining, marine, and industrial markets, which help Wabtec balance the cyclical nature of the global rail business. We provide our products in both the original equipment market and the aftermarket. Our substantial installed base of products with end-users, such as the railroads and the passenger transit authorities, is a significant competitive advantage for providing products and services to the aftermarket because these customers often look to purchase safety- and performance-related replacement parts and technology upgrades from the original equipment components supplier. Wabtec has an installed base of nearly 24,000 locomotives, as well as a diverse offering of Transit locomotives and cars both internationally and domestically. Our significant installed base enables opportunities in the aftermarket parts and services business. Leading design and engineering capabilities. We believe a hallmark of our relationship with our customers has been our leading design and engineering practice, which has assisted in the improvement and modernization of global railway equipment. Wabtec's engineers and technical capabilities support continued focus on innovative product development and efforts to achieve scalable technologies. We believe both our customers and government authorities value our technological capabilities and commitment to innovation, as we seek not only to enhance the efficiency and profitability of our customers, but also to improve the overall safety of the railways through continuous improvement of product performance. To that end, we have assembled a wide range of patented products, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. Decarbonizing the rail industry. We have taken significant steps to decarbonize global transport and make our world safer, smarter and greener. Wabtec is advancing our sustainability priorities both through our own commitments to our people, communities, and planet, as well as by innovating next generation technologies that reduce emissions, energy consumption and waste, and increase fuel efficiency for our customers through advancements in our equipment and digital solutions. 5 Driving the digital transformation of the rail industry. Our early investment in data analytics and software has allowed us to become a strategic partner for customers looking to derive new value from existing assets, digitally transform their operations and enhance their network optimization. Through these initiatives, our digital solutions have helped to transform many distribution channels in the transportation industry including mine to ports, from shipper to receiver, from port to intermodal terminals to main line locomotives and railcars and across train yards and operation centers. The breadth of our Digital Intelligence solutions gives customers confidence in our ability to address their current and future needs with the latest digital technologies. Strategic partnerships with longstanding customers and other key stakeholders. We listen to our key stakeholders and focus on areas where Wabtec can enable the most meaningful impact for our customers, communities, and the world. Transformational change requires collaboration, so we are committed to accelerating progress by partnering with customers, government leaders, corporations, universities, and other key stakeholders. For example, we have partnered with a customer, as well as an artificial intelligence and robotics institution to create technologies that will further decarbonize freight rail transport, improve freight safety, and generate greater rail network utilization. By working together with these partners and others, we are developing advanced solutions for the industry to realize the zero-emission rail network of the future. Experience with industry regulatory requirements. The freight rail and passenger transit industries are governed by various government agencies and regulators in each country and region. These groups mandate rigorous manufacturer certification and a new product testing and approval processes that we believe are difficult for new entrants to meet cost-effectively and efficiently without the scale and extensive experience we possess. Streamlined cost structure and operational excellence provide operating leverage and support Wabtec s growth. We focus on driving continuous operational improvement across the organization by sharing best practices, instilling a culture of learning, problem solving and constant improvement, and driving standard operating practices. Wabtec is also focused on earnings growth through expanding high-margin recurring revenue streams. Additionally, Wabtec is a provider of technology-enabled locomotives and equipment, freight car components, systems, and services for the freight rail and passenger transit industries. The size of Wabtec's operations enables the Company to achieve economies of scale, in addition to using best-cost locations for executing on operational decisions. Completed strategic acquisitions and integrations have also led to operating synergies across Wabtec. Business Strategy We strive to generate sufficient cash to invest in our growth strategies while maintaining world-class product value, technology and customer responsiveness. We continuously strive to improve quality, delivery and productivity, and to reduce costs utilizing global sourcing and supply chain management. These practices enable us to streamline processes, improve product reliability and customer satisfaction, reduce product cycle times and respond more rapidly to market developments. We also rely on functional experts within the Company across various disciplines to train, coach and share best practices throughout the Company, while benchmarking against best-in-class competitors and peers. Over time, we intend to continue to increase operating margins, improve cash flow and strengthen our ability to invest in the following growth strategies: Accelerate innovation of scalable technologies . We continue to emphasize innovation and development funding to create new products and capabilities to increase customer productivity, efficiency, capacity, utilization and safety, such as the battery electric locomotive, hydrogen powered locomotive, vehicle monitoring and data analytics. We plan to invest in bringing new technologies to market for our customers. A significant portion of our investment is expected to be focused on three customer-centric areas of innovation: zero-emissions operations, automation and digitization and advanced supply chain visibility. These investments will position our customers for success and make these technologies the standard going forward. We have a multi-year initiative to build on our existing expertise and technologies in the Digital Intelligence space. In addition, we invest in developing enhancements and new features to existing products, such as brake discs and heat exchangers. We are focusing on technological advances, especially in the areas of electronics, battery power and alternative fuels, including hydrogen technologies, braking products and other on-board equipment, as a means to deliver new product growth. We seek to provide customers with incremental technological advances that offer immediate benefits with cost-effective investments. Grow and refresh expansive installed base. We are a transportation and component manufacturer with a significant installed base with expansive product and service capabilities. We have nearly 24,000 locomotives in service, the majority of which are equipped with Digital Intelligence technologies, like Positive Train Control. We intend to increase sales through direct sales of existing products to current and new customers, by developing specific new products for application in new geographic markets, by making strategic acquisitions and through joint ventures with railway suppliers which have a strong presence in their local markets. We believe that international markets represent a significant opportunity for future growth. In Transit, we are focused on mature markets such as Europe and emerging markets such as India. In Freight, we are targeting markets that operate significant fleets of locomotives and freight cars, including Australia, Brazil, Egypt, India, South Africa, Kazakhstan, and other select areas within Europe, Asia 6 and South America. In addition, we have opportunities to increase the sale of certain products that we currently manufacture for the rail industry into other industrial markets, such as mining, off-highway and energy. Lead the decarbonization of rail. Today, rail represents the cleanest, most energy efficient and safest mode of moving freight and people on land. As global demands for growth increase, current trends suggest that freight and passenger rail activity will more than double by 2050, leading to an increased demand for sustainable transportation of people and goods. These converging forces highlight the critical interplay between market dynamics, the need for decarbonization and Wabtec s business strategy. Wabtec is helping customers transition to a more utilized, efficient, and low-carbon rail network. Alternative clean energy technologies are critical in the fight against climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We are helping our customers reduce their overall carbon footprint through the development of low-emitting locomotives like our Tier 4 and battery-electric locomotives, Trip Optimizer, Green Air and Green Friction products, and the use of alternative fuels such as biodiesel, renewable diesel, and hydrogen. Expand high-margin recurring revenue streams. Our expansive installed base allows us to generate strong recurring revenues with replacement parts and components, digital solutions, overhauls and modernizations. Aftermarket sales are typically done at higher margins and are less cyclical than OEM sales because a certain level of aftermarket maintenance and service work must be performed, even during an industry slowdown. Sales of aftermarket parts and services represent approximately 60% of total net sales. As a long-time supplier of original equipment, we have an extensive installed base of equipment in operation and growing this installed base further will expand our recurring aftermarket sales. Wabtec provides aftermarket parts and services for its components, and we seek to expand this business with customers who currently perform the work in-house. In this way, we expect to benefit as transit authorities and railroads outsource certain maintenance and overhaul functions. Drive continuous operational improvement . We are focused on continuous improvement to drive cost competitiveness, effectively deploy capital and accelerate Lean. Lean is a set of principles that emphasize customer focus, elimination of waste, high quality growth and relentless prioritization of work to improve safety, quality, delivery and cost. Lean is being embedded in our culture and is fundamental to how we execute our strategy. We are using Lean principles to help examine processes and continuously improve them by solving problems at their root cause. Our Lean transformation model focuses on driving process improvements and management systems to maximize the flow of value produced for the customer, remove waste, empower employees and optimize the enterprise. These principles are also rigorously applied to sustainability and safety. Recent Acquisitions See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information about our recent acquisitions. Backlog Backlog represents the future sales we expect to recognize on firm orders received from customers and approximates the Company s remaining performance obligations at the end of each period. The Company s total backlog was approximately $22 billion at December 31, 2023. The Company s contracts are subject to standard industry cancellation provisions, including cancellations on short notice or upon completion of designated stages. Generally, if a customer were to cancel a contract, we would have an enforceable right to payment for work completed up to the date of cancellation which would include a reasonable profit margin. Substantial scope-of-work adjustments are common. For these and other reasons, completion of the Company s backlog may be delayed or canceled. The railroad industry, in general, has historically been subject to fluctuations due to overall economic conditions and the level of use of alternative modes of transportation. 7 The roll forward of the Company's backlog of firm customer orders and the expected year of completion are as follows: In millions Freight Segment Transit Segment Consolidated Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 18,641 $ 3,800 $ 22,441 New orders 5,850 2,967 8,817 Less: Net sales (6,962) (2,715) (9,677) Adjustments / foreign exchange, net 302 116 418 Balance at December 31, 2023 $ 17,831 $ 4,168 $ 21,999 Expected Delivery 2024 $ 5,450 $ 2,007 $ 7,457 Thereafter $ 12,381 $ 2,161 $ 14,542 Global economic conditions have not resulted in any material cancellations recently, but they have impacted the timing of some orders in backlog as, in certain cases, the delivery of goods and services were pushed out from their original timelines and could result in future modifications or cancellations. Engineering and Development To execute our strategy to develop new products, we invest in a variety of engineering and development activities. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we invested $218 million, $209 million and $176 million, respectively, in engineering for product development and improvement activities. Significant incremental engineering expense can be incurred with the execution of original equipment customer contracts. Across the Company we have established multiple Centers of Competence, which have specialized, technical expertise in various disciplines and product areas. Our engineering and development program includes investments in data analytics, train control and other new technologies, such as battery-electric, liquid natural gas and hydrogen-powered locomotives, with an emphasis on developing products that enhance safety, productivity and efficiency for our customers. For example, we have developed advanced cooling systems that enable lower emissions from diesel engines used in rail and other industrial markets. We periodically conduct specific research projects in conjunction with universities, customers and other industry suppliers. We use our product development system to develop and monitor new product programs. The system requires the product development team to follow consistent steps throughout the development process, from concept to launch, to ensure the product will meet customer expectations and internal profitability targets. Intellectual Property We have more than 6,500 active patents worldwide and file for approximately 300 new patents each year. We actively review our patent procurement processes and make adjustments as appropriate to the business environment. We also rely on a combination of trade secrets and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual property. We actively monitor competitor patent issuance during our product development to reduce litigation risks, and we follow their product development practices to monitor possible patent infringement by them, and to evaluate their strategies and plans. Trademarks we utilize can be licensed from other companies, acquired as part of mergers or acquisitions, or have been developed through the normal course of business. We have entered into a variety of license agreements as licensor and licensee. We do not believe that any single license agreement is of material importance to our business or any of our business segments as a whole. Customers We provide products and services for more than 500 customers worldwide. Our customers include passenger transit authorities and r