Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 45 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 45 Item 9B. Other Information 45 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 45 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 46 Item 11. Executive Compensation 46 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 46 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 46 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 47 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 2 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, doing business as Wabtec Corporation, is a Delaware corporation with headquarters at 30 Isabella Street in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Our telephone number is 412-825-1000, and our website is located at www.wabteccorp.com . Except as the context otherwise requires, all references to we , our , us , the Company and Wabtec refer to Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. George Westinghouse founded the original Westinghouse Air Brake Co. in 1869 when he invented the air brake. Westinghouse Air Brake Company ( WABCO ) was formed in 1990 when it acquired certain assets and operations from American Standard, Inc., now known as Trane ( Trane ). The Company went public on the New York Stock Exchange in 1995. Throughout the years, the Company has made a number of strategic acquisitions leading the Company to where it is today. These have primarily included: the 1999 merger with MotivePower Industries, Inc. whereby the Company adopted its current name of Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, or Wabtec; the 2017 acquisition of Faiveley Transport, S.A. ( Faiveley Transport ), a leading provider of value-added, integrated systems and services, primarily for the global transit rail market. Based in France, the Faiveley Transport business has roots to 1919 and made Wabtec a leader in manufacturing pantographs, automatic door mechanisms, air conditioning systems, railway braking systems and couplers; and the 2019 acquisition of GE Transportation, a business unit of General Electric Company. This brought a global technology leader and supplier of locomotives, equipment, services and digital solutions to the rail, mining, marine, stationary power and drilling industries into Wabtec. As a result of those strategic acquisitions, as well as other smaller acquisitions and organic growth, Wabtec is now one of the world s largest providers of locomotives, value-added, technology-based equipment, systems and services for the global freight rail and passenger transit industries with approximately 25,000 employees, excluding contingent workers, and operations in over 50 countries. We believe we hold a leading market share for many of our core product lines globally. Our highly engineered products, which are intended to enhance safety, improve productivity, and reduce maintenance costs for customers, can be found on most locomotives, freight cars, passenger transit cars and buses around the world. Through both internal growth as well as acquisitions, Wabtec has positioned itself with the following strategic benefits: Increased diversity of revenues by product, geography and market. Comprehensive product offerings spanning the freight rail and passenger transit industries, as well as products in the bus, mining and marine, and discrete industrial markets help Wabtec to balance the cyclical nature of the global rail business. Significant operating synergies and improved financial profile . The consummation of the GE Transportation acquisition is leading to operating synergies across all of Wabtec. As a result, we achieved over $250 million in annual run-rate operating synergies, driven by cost and revenue opportunities. This will enhance Wabtec s margins and revenue growth opportunities with strong free cash flow generation to enable strategic deleveraging through debt reduction and earnings growth. Increased technical and engineering expertise. Particularly with the onboarding of Faiveley Transport and GE Transportation, Wabtec's technical capabilities and product development efforts are strengthened. Increased scale and diversification of Wabtec s Freight product portfolio . Wabtec is one of the world s largest providers of locomotives, freight car components, technology-enabled equipment, systems and services for the locomotive and freight rail industries. Broadened product line and international presence in the transit market. Wabtec offers a comprehensive, broad and diversified portfolio of products to the transit rail industries throughout the world. Complementary Digital and Electronics technologies . Wabtec has a comprehensive digital portfolio and leading engineering and technical intellectual property, which provides electronics and digital technologies to meet growing demand for train intelligence and network optimization. Enhanced Aftermarket and Services opportunities . Wabtec has an installed base of more than 23,000 locomotives and content on virtually all North American locomotives and freight cars, as well as a diverse offering of Transit locomotives and cars both internationally and domestically, which enables significant opportunities in the higher-margin aftermarket parts and services business and mitigates the exposure to cycles. 3 Industry Overview The Company primarily serves the global freight rail and passenger transit industries. As such, our operating results are largely dependent on the level of activity, financial condition and capital spending plans of freight railroads and passenger transit agencies around the world, and transportation equipment manufacturers who serve those markets. Many factors influence these industries, including general economic conditions; traffic volumes, as measured by freight carloadings and passenger ridership; government spending on public transportation; and investment in new technologies. In general, trends such as increasing urbanization and growth in developing markets, a focus on sustainability and environmental awareness, increasing investment in technology solutions, an aging equipment fleet, and growth in global trade are expected to drive continued investment in freight rail and passenger transit. The Association of the European Rail Industry, UNIFE, advocates for and represents European train builders and rail suppliers. UNIFE publishes a biennial market study that provides an overview of the market in its current form and a forecast of its future development in different regions and market segments. According to the 2020 biennial edition of the study, the accessible global market for railway products and services is more than $120 billion and is expected to grow in the medium- and long-term at an average annual growth rate of 2.3% through 2025, despite an 8% COVID-induced decline in 2020. The 2020 study also concluded that the rail sector had grown 3.6% annually since 2017, supporting the appeal of rail transport for all sectors from urban metro to commercial freight. The three largest geographic markets, which represented about 85% of the total accessible market, were Europe, North America and Asia Pacific, all of which are projected to continue to grow. In Europe, only 19% of freight traffic is rail while the majority of the rail system serves the passenger transit market, which is expected to continue growing as energy and environmental policies encourage continued investment in public mass transit, and modal shift from car to rail, although this growth may be stunted in the near-term as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In North America, railroads carry about 40% of intercity freight, as measured by ton-miles, which is more than any other mode of transportation. North America s rail network is regarded as the world s most-efficient and lowest-cost freight rail service. There are more than 600 railroads operating in North America, with the largest railroads, referred to as Class I , accounting for more than 90% of the industry s revenues. Growth in the Asia Pacific market has been driven mainly by the continued urbanization of China and India, and by continued investments in freight rail rolling stock and infrastructure in Australia to serve its mining and natural resources markets. India is making significant investments in rolling stock and infrastructure to modernize its rail system According to UNIFE, most emerging markets, including Russia-CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States) and Africa-Middle East, are expected to grow at above-average rates as global trade leads to increased freight volumes and urbanization leads to increased demand for efficient mass-transportation systems. With about 1.3 million freight cars and about 21,000 locomotives, Russia-CIS is among the largest freight rail markets in the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the expected growth in these emerging markets. As growth occurs, Wabtec expects to have additional opportunities to provide products and services in these markets. New technologies offered by Wabtec can provide solutions to improve safety, cost and reliability of rail, as well as support the modernization of the global rail fleets. In its study, UNIFE also said it expected increased investment in digitalization, automation, and predictive maintenance through artificial intelligence, all of which would improve efficiency in the global rail industry. Business Segments and Products We provide our products and services through two principal business segments, the Freight Segment and the Transit Segment, both of which have different market characteristics and business drivers. The Freight Segment primarily manufactures and provides aftermarket parts and services for new locomotives; provides components for new and existing locomotives and freight cars; builds new commuter locomotives; supplies rail control and infrastructure products including electronics, positive train control equipment, signal design and engineering services; provides a comprehensive suite of software-enabled solutions designed to improve customer efficiency and productivity in the transportation and mining industries; overhauls locomotives; and provides heat exchangers and cooling systems for rail and other industrial markets. Customers include large, publicly traded railroads, leasing companies, manufacturers of original equipment such as locomotives and freight cars, and utilities. We are the largest global manufacturer of diesel-electric locomotives for freight railroads producing mission-critical products and solutions that help railroads reduce operating costs, decrease fuel use, minimize downtime and comply with emissions standards. As a result of the large base of approximately 23,000 locomotives currently in use, Wabtec's services product lines of rebuilding, remanufacturing, maintaining, and exchanging locomotives and components in the aftermarkets provides a significant, recurring revenue stream. In 2021, the Freight Segment accounted for approximately 67% of Wabtec s total net sales, with approximately 57% of its net sales in the U.S. In 2021, approximately 68% of the Freight Segment s net sales were in the aftermarket. 4 The Transit Segment primarily manufactures and services components for new and existing passenger transit vehicles, typically regional trains, high speed trains, subway cars, light-rail vehicles and buses; supplies rail control and infrastructure products including electronics, signal design and engineering services; and refurbishes passenger transit vehicles. Customers include public transit authorities and municipalities, leasing companies, and manufacturers of passenger transit vehicles and buses around the world. In 2021, the Transit Segment accounted for approximately 33% of our total net sales, with approximately 14% of its net sales in the U.S. Approximately half of the Transit Segment s net sales are in the aftermarket with the remainder in the original equipment market. Geographically, Faiveley Transport significantly strengthened Wabtec s presence in the European and Asia Pacific transit markets. Following is a summary of our leading products in both aftermarket and original equipment across both of our business segments in 2021: Equipment: Diesel-electric and battery powered locomotives for freight and transit Engines, electric motors and premium propulsion systems used in locomotives, mining, marine, stationary power and drilling applications Marine and mining products Digital Electronic Products: Positive Train Control ("PTC") equipment and electronically controlled pneumatic braking products Railway electronics, including event recorders, monitoring equipment and end of train devices Signal design and engineering services Train performance such as distributed locomotive power, train 'cruise control', and train remote control Transport intelligence such as Industrial/mobile Internet of Things (IoT) hardware software, edge-to-cloud, on and off-board analytics rules, and asset performance management Transport logistics such as rail transportation management, shipper transportation management, and port visibility and optimization Network optimization such as rail network scheduling, dispatch and optimization, intermodal, terminal management and optimization, and rail yard management and optimization Components: Freight car trucks and braking equipment and related components for Freight applications Draft gears, couplers and slack adjusters Air compressors and dryers Heat exchangers and cooling products for locomotives and power generation equipment Track and switch products New commuter and switcher locomotives Services: Freight locomotive overhaul, modernizations and refurbishment Master service agreements for locomotive and car maintenance Transit locomotive and car overhaul Unit exchange of locomotive components Transit Products: Railway braking equipment and related components for Transit applications, including high-speed passenger transit vehicles Friction products, including brake shoes, discs and pads Heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment Doors for buses and subway cars 5 Platform screen doors Pantographs Window assemblies Couplers Accessibility lifts and ramps for buses and subway cars Traction motors We have become a leader in the freight rail and passenger transit industries by capitalizing on the strength of our existing products, technological capabilities and new product innovations, and by our ability to harden products to protect them from severe conditions, including extreme temperatures and high-vibration environments. Supported by our technical staff of more than 5,700 engineers and specialists, we have extensive experience in a broad range of product lines, which enables us to provide comprehensive, systems-based solutions for our customers. We have continued to develop Energy Management Solutions for railroads to further reduce fuel consumption and emissions. These developments include the design of a battery electric locomotive that will be integrated with other diesel electric locomotives in a train. This hybrid consist, under the control of our Trip Optimizer software, will significantly reduce fuel consumption and have the ability to operate in a low emission state while in populated areas. In 2021, Wabtec and a Class I completed a three month pilot of a battery electric locomotive which reduced fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by an average of 11% in a revenue service train. In recent years, we have also introduced a number of significant new products, including PTC equipment that encompasses onboard digital data and global positioning communication protocols. We are making additional investments in this technology which we believe will provide customers with opportunities to improve safety and efficiency, in part through data analytics solutions. Other new products include HVAC inverter integrated solutions, brake discs and brake controls, platform doors and gates and door controllers. For additional information on our business segments, see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Competitive Strengths Our key strengths include: Iconic legacy and strong reputation with a history of over 150 years of innovation . The rail industry has been in operation for over 150 years and we have been at the forefront of shaping and transforming the rail landscape through various innovations and technologies. Dating back to 1869 and George Westinghouse s invention of the air brake, we are an established leader in the rail industry for freight and passenger transit vehicles. For over 110 years, GE Transportation has served the worldwide rail industry, which is a critical component of the global transportation system and the global economy, with an installed base of more than 23,000 locomotives worldwide. Faiveley Transport, founded in 1919, has a long history and is a market leader for its core products, including pantographs, automatic door mechanisms and air conditioning systems. We have leveraged our leading positions by focusing on research and engineering to expand beyond pneumatic braking components to supplying integrated parts and assemblies from a full locomotive through the end of the train. We are a recognized leader in the development and production of electronic recording, measuring and communications systems, PTC equipment, highly engineered compressors and heat exchangers for locomotives, and a leading manufacturer of freight car components, including electronic braking equipment, draft gears, trucks, brake shoes and electronic end-of-train devices. We are also a leading provider of braking equipment; heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment; door assemblies and platform screen doors; lifts and ramps; couplers and current collection equipment, such as pantographs, for passenger transit vehicles. Breadth of product offering with a stable mix of original equipment market (OEM) and aftermarket business . Our product portfolio is one of the broadest in the rail industry, as we offer a wide selection of quality parts, components and assemblies across the entire train and worldwide. We provide our products in both the original equipment market and the aftermarket. Our substantial installed base of products with end-users such as the railroads and the passenger transit authorities is a significant competitive advantage for providing products and services to the aftermarket because these customers often look to purchase safety- and performance-related replacement parts from the original equipment components supplier. In addition, as OEMs and railroad operators attempt to modernize fleets with new products designed to improve and maintain safety and efficiency, these products must be designed to be interoperable with existing equipment. Sales of aftermarket parts and services have historically represented approximately 60% of our total net sales. Leading design and engineering capabilities . We believe a hallmark of our relationship with our customers has been our leading design and engineering practice, which has assisted in the improvement and modernization of global 6 railway equipment. We believe both our customers and government authorities value our technological capabilities and commitment to innovation, as we seek not only to enhance the efficiency and profitability of our customers, but also to improve the overall safety of the railways through continuous improvement of product performance. The Company designs, develops and manufactures critical components and systems for the rail, mining and marine industries, which include proprietary propulsion systems, engine platforms and controls technology. These innovative and differentiated solutions serve as the building blocks for the rail, mining and marine industries, and help keep our global customers at the forefront of advancing technologies. When coupled with our advanced digital analytic capabilities, our solutions help drive increased energy management, performance and reliability to our products. To that end, we have assembled a wide range of patented products, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. Market leader in decarbonizing the rail industry. Today, rail represents the cleanest, most energy efficient, and safest mode of moving freight and people on land. As global demands for growth increase, current trends indicate that freight and passenger rail activity will more than double by 2050, leading to an increased demand for sustainable transportation of people and goods. These converging forces highlight the critical interplay between market dynamics, the need for decarbonization and Wabtec s business strategy. We are advancing our sustainability priorities both through our own commitments to our people, communities, and planet, as well as by innovating next generation technologies that reduce emissions, energy consumption and waste, and increase fuel efficiency for our customers through advancements in our equipment and digital solutions. We are helping our customers reduce their overall carbon footprint through the development of low-emitting locomotives like our Tier 4 and battery-electric locomotives, Trip Optimizer, Green Air and Green Friction products, and the use of alternative fuels such as biodiesel, renewable diesel, and hydrogen. Driving the digital transformation of the rail industry . Our early investment in data analytics and software has allowed us to become a strategic partner for customers looking to derive new value from assets and digitally transform their operations. Through these initiatives, our digital solutions have helped to transform many distribution channels in the transportation industry including mine to ports, from shipper to receiver, from port to intermodal terminals to main line locomotives and railcars and across train yards and operation centers. The breadth of our Digital and Electronic solutions gives customers confidence in our ability to address their current and future needs. Strategic partnerships with longstanding customers and other key stakeholders. For more than a century, rail has been a cornerstone of the global transportation system, and thus, the economy. Rail remains one of the most cost-effective, energy-efficient modes of transport, both domestically and internationally. As the largest global producer of diesel-electric locomotives, we have a significant market share both in North America and globally. We listen to our key stakeholders and focus on areas where Wabtec can enable the most meaningful impact for our customers, communities, and the world. Transformational change requires collaboration, so we are committed to accelerating progress by partnering with customers, government leaders, corporations, universities and other key stakeholders. For example, we have partnered with a customer, a leading short line and regional freight railroad, as well as a leading artificial intelligence and robotics institution to create technologies that will decarbonize freight rail transport, improve freight safety, and generate greater rail network utilization. We also have collaborated with a global transportation company focused on the development and commercialization of battery technology and hydrogen fuel cell systems for Wabtec locomotives. By working together with these partners and others, we are developing advanced solutions for the industry to realize the zero-emission rail network of the future. Experience with industry regulatory requirements. The freight rail and passenger transit industries are governed by various government agencies and regulators in each country and region. These groups mandate rigorous manufacturer certification and a new product testing and approval processes that we believe are difficult for new entrants to meet cost-effectively and efficiently without the scale and extensive experience we possess. Certification processes are lengthy, and often require local presence and expertise. In addition, each transit agency places a high degree of importance on vehicle customization, which requires experience and technical expertise to meet ever-evolving specifications. Streamlined cost structure and operational excellence provide operating leverage and support Wabtec s growth. Wabtec s lean manufacturing and continuous improvement initiatives have been a part of the Company s culture for more than 25 years and have enabled Wabtec to manage successfully through cycles in the rail supply market. We are continuing to expand our Operating Excellence focus in driving productivity and delighting customers. Our Operating Excellence Program leverages the breadth and depth of our One Wabtec expertise across the organization in sharing of best practices, instilling a culture of learning, problem solving, continuous improvement, and driving standard operating practices. This, coupled with our overall manufacturing and supply base footprint optimization initiatives, will drive increased flexibility and improved responsiveness to our customer needs while driving margin improvement through productivity. 7 Business Strategy We strive to generate sufficient cash to invest in our growth strategies and to build on what we consider to be a leading position as a low-cost producer in the industry while maintaining world-class product quality, technology and customer responsiveness. We continuously strive to improve quality, delivery and productivity, and to reduce costs utilizing global sourcing and supply chain management. These practices enable us to streamline processes, improve product reliability and customer satisfaction, reduce product cycle times and respond more rapidly to market developments. We also rely on functional experts within the Company across various disciplines to train, coach and share best practices throughout the Company, while benchmarking against best-in-class competitors and peers. Over time, we expect to continue to increase operating margins, improve cash flow and strengthen our ability to invest in the following growth strategies: Accelerate innovation of scalable technologies . We continue to emphasize innovation and development funding to create new products and capabilities to increase customer productivity, efficiency, capacity, utilization and safety, such as the battery electric locomotive, vehicle monitoring and data analytics. We will continue to lead the way with technologies that use less energy, reduce weight and size, and increase recyclability. We plan to invest in bringing new technologies to market for our customers. A significant portion of our investment will be focused on three customer-centric areas of innovation: zero-emissions operations, automation and digitization and advanced supply chain visibility. These investments will position our customers for success and make these technologies the standard going forward. We have a multi-year initiative to build on our existing expertise and technologies in the digital and electronics areas. In addition, we invest in developing enhancements and new features to existing products, such as brake discs and heat exchangers. We are focusing on technological advances, especially in the areas of electronics, battery power and alternative fuels, braking products and other on-board equipment, as a means to deliver new product growth. We seek to provide customers with incremental technological advances that offer immediate benefits with cost-effective investments. Grow and refresh expansive installed base. We are a leading transportation and component manufacturer with a significant installed base with expansive product and service capabilities. We have over 23,000 locomotives in service, the majority of which are equipped with Digital technologies, like Positive Train Control. We have components on rail cars in over 100 countries and over 45,000 railway vehicles equipped with Wabtec braking systems. We intend to increase sales through direct sales of existing products to current and new customers, by developing specific new products for application in new geographic markets, by making strategic acquisitions and through joint ventures with railway suppliers which have a strong presence in their local markets. We believe that international markets represent a significant opportunity for future growth. In Transit, we are focused on mature markets such as Europe and emerging markets such as India. In Freight, we are targeting markets that operate significant fleets of U.S.-style locomotives and freight cars, including Australia, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Russia, South Africa and other select areas within Europe and South America. In addition, we have opportunities to increase the sale of certain products that we currently manufacture for the rail industry into other industrial markets, such as mining, off-highway and energy. Lead the decarbonization of rail. We have taken significant steps to decarbonize global transport and make our world safer, smarter and greener. Today, rail represents the cleanest, most energy efficient and safest mode of moving freight 