Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 I n fo r m atio n About Our Executive Officers 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 45 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 45 Item 9B. Other Information 46 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 46 Item 11. Executive Compensation 46 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 46 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 46 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 47 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 99 2 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, doing business as Wabtec Corporation, is a Delaware corporation with headquarters at 30 Isabella Street in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Our telephone number is 412-825-1000, and our website is located at www.wabteccorp.com . All references to we , our , us , the Company and Wabtec refer to Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. George Westinghouse founded the original Westinghouse Air Brake Co. in 1869 when he invented the air brake. Westinghouse Air Brake Company ( WABCO ) was formed in 1990 when it acquired certain assets and operations from American Standard, Inc., now known as Trane ( Trane ). The Company went public on the New York Stock Exchange in 1995. Throughout the years, the Company has made a number of strategic acquisitions leading the Company to where it is today. These have primarily included: the 1999 merger with MotivePower Industries, Inc. whereby the Company adopted its current name of Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, or Wabtec; the 2017 acquisition of Faiveley Transport, S.A. ( Faiveley Transport ), a leading provider of value-added, integrated systems and services, primarily for the global transit rail market. Based in France, the Faiveley Transport business has roots to 1919 and made Wabtec a leader in manufacturing pantographs, automatic door mechanisms, air conditioning systems, railway braking systems and couplers; and the 2019 merger with GE Transportation, a business unit of General Electric Company. This brought a global technology leader and supplier of locomotives, equipment, services and digital solutions to the rail, mining, marine, stationary power and drilling industries into Wabtec. As a result of the aforementioned acquisitions, as well as other smaller acquisitions, and organic growth, Wabtec is now one of the world s largest providers of locomotives, value-added, technology-based equipment, systems and services for the global freight rail and passenger transit industries with over 27,500 employees and operations in over 50 countries. We believe we hold a leading market share for many of our core product lines globally. Our highly engineered products, which are intended to enhance safety, improve productivity and efficiency, and reduce maintenance costs for customers, can be found on a large percentage of locomotives, freight cars, passenger transit cars and buses around the world. In 2019, the Company had net sales of approximately $8.2 billion and net income attributable to our shareholders of about $327 million. In 2019, net sales of aftermarket parts and services represented about 55% of total net sales, while net sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for about 60% of total net sales. Through both internal growth as well as acquisitions, Wabtec has positioned itself with the following strategic benefits: Increased diversity of revenues by product, geography and market. Comprehensive product offerings spanning the freight rail and passenger transit industries, as well as products in the bus, mining and marine, and discrete industrial markets help Wabtec to balance the cyclical nature of the global rail business. Significant Operating Synergies and Improved Financial Profile . The consummation of the GE Transportation transaction is leading to operating synergies across all of Wabtec. As a result, we expect to generate approximately $250 million in annual run-rate operating synergies, driven by cost and revenue opportunities, before 2022. This will enhance Wabtec s margins and revenue growth opportunities with strong free cash flow generation to enable strategic deleveraging through debt reduction and earnings growth. Increased technical and engineering expertise. Particularly with the onboarding of Faiveley Transport and GE Transportation, Wabtec's technical capabilities and product development efforts are strengthened. Increased Scale and Diversification of Wabtec s Freight Product Portfolio . Wabtec is now one of the world s largest providers of locomotives, freight car components, technology-enabled equipment, systems and services for the locomotive and freight rail industries. Broadened product line and international presence in the transit market. Wabtec now offers a comprehensive, broad and diversified portfolio of products to the transit rail industries throughout the world. Complementary Digital and Electronics Technologies . Wabtec now has a comprehensive digital portfolio and leading engineering and technical intellectual property, which provides electronics and digital technologies to meet growing demand for train intelligence and network optimization. 3 Enhanced Aftermarket and Services Opportunities . Wabtec has an installed base of more than 22,500 locomotives and content on virtually all North American locomotives and freight cars, as well as a diverse offering of Transit locomotives and cars both internationally and domestically, which enables significant opportunities in the higher-margin aftermarket parts and services business and mitigates the exposure to cycles. Industry Overview The Company primarily serves the global freight rail and passenger transit industries. As such, our operating results are largely dependent on the level of activity, financial condition and capital spending plans of freight railroads and passenger transit agencies around the world, and transportation equipment manufacturers who serve those markets. Many factors influence these industries, including general economic conditions; traffic volumes, as measured by freight carloadings and passenger ridership; government spending on public transportation; and investment in new technologies. In general, trends such as increasing urbanization and growth in developing markets, a focus on sustainability and environmental awareness, increasing investment in technology solutions, an aging equipment fleet, and growth in global trade are expected to drive continued investment in freight rail and passenger transit. According to the 2018 bi-annual edition of a market study by UNIFE, the Association of the European Rail Industry, the accessible global market for railway products and services was more than $100 billion and was expected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of 2.6% through 2023. The three largest geographic markets, which represented about 80% of the total accessible market, were Europe, North America and Asia Pacific. UNIFE projected above-average growth rates in North America, Latin America and Africa/Middle East, with Asia Pacific and Europe growing at about the industry average. UNIFE said trends such as urbanization and increasing mobility, deregulation, investments in new technologies, energy and environmental issues, and increasing government support continue to drive investment. The largest product segments of the market were rolling stock, services and infrastructure, which represent almost 90% of the accessible market. UNIFE projected spending on turnkey management projects and infrastructure to grow at above-average rates. UNIFE estimated that the global installed base of diesel and electric locomotives was about 114,800 units, with about 33% in Asia Pacific, about 26% in North America and about 18% in Russia-CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States). Wabtec estimates that about 2,900 new locomotives were delivered worldwide in 2019. UNIFE estimated the global installed base of freight cars was about 5.1 million, with about 33% in North America, about 26% in Asia Pacific and about 24% in Russia-CIS. Wabtec estimates that about 174,000 new freight cars were delivered worldwide in 2019. UNIFE estimated the global installed base of passenger transit vehicles to be about 600,000 units, with about 45% in Asia Pacific, about 33% in Europe and about 12% in Russia-CIS. Wabtec estimates that about 35,000 new passenger transit vehicles were ordered worldwide in 2019. In Europe, the majority of the rail system serves the passenger transit market, which is expected to continue growing as energy and environmental policies encourage continued investment in public mass transit, and modal shift from car to rail. According to UNIFE, France, Germany and the United Kingdom were the largest Western European transit markets, representing almost two-thirds of industry spending in the European Union. UNIFE projected the accessible Western European rail market to grow at about 2.3% annually, led by investments in new rolling stock in France and Germany. About 75% of freight traffic in Europe is hauled by truck, while rail accounts for about 20%. The largest freight markets in Europe are Germany, Poland and the United Kingdom. In recent years, the European Commission has adopted a series of measures designed to increase the efficiency of the European rail network by standardizing operating rules and certification requirements. UNIFE believes that adoption of these measures should have a positive effect on ridership and investment in public transportation over time. In North America, railroads carry about 40% of intercity freight, as measured by ton-miles, which is more than any other mode of transportation. Through direct ownership and operating partnerships, U.S. railroads are part of an integrated network that includes railroads in Canada and Mexico, forming what is regarded as the world s most-efficient and lowest-cost freight rail service. There are more than 500 railroads operating in North America, with the largest railroads, referred to as Class I, accounting for more than 90% of the industry s revenues. The railroads carry a wide variety of commodities and goods, including coal, metals, minerals, chemicals, grain, and petroleum. These commodities represent about 50% of total rail carloadings, with intermodal carloads accounting for the rest. Railroads operate in a competitive environment, especially with the trucking industry, and are always seeking ways to improve safety, cost and reliability. New technologies offered by Wabtec and others in the industry can provide some of these benefits. Demand for our freight related products and services in North America is driven by a number of factors, including rail traffic, and production of new locomotives and new freight cars. In the U.S., the passenger transit industry is dependent largely on funding from federal, state and local governments, and from fare box revenues. Demand for North American passenger transit products is driven by a number of factors, including government funding, deliveries of new subway cars and buses, and ridership. The U.S. federal government provides money to local transit authorities, primarily to fund the purchase of new equipment and infrastructure for their transit systems. Growth in the Asia Pacific market has been driven mainly by the continued urbanization of China and India, and by investments in freight rail rolling stock and infrastructure in Australia to serve its mining and natural resources markets. India is 4 making significant investments in rolling stock and infrastructure to modernize its rail system; for example, the country has awarded a 1,000-unit locomotive order to GE Transportation. Other key geographic markets include Russia-CIS and Africa-Middle East. With about 1.2 million freight cars and about 20,000 locomotives, Russia-CIS is among the largest freight rail markets in the world, and it s expected to invest in both freight and transit rolling stock. PRASA, the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa, is expected to continue to invest in new transit cars and new locomotives. According to UNIFE, emerging markets were expected to grow at above-average rates as global trade led to increased freight volumes and urbanization led to increased demand for efficient mass-transportation systems. As this growth occurs, Wabtec expects to have additional opportunities to provide products and services in these markets. In its study, UNIFE also said it expected increased investment in digital tools for data and asset management, and in rail control technologies, both of which would improve efficiency in the global rail industry. UNIFE said data-driven asset management tools have the potential to reduce equipment maintenance costs and improve asset utilization, while rail control technologies have been focused on increasing track capacity, improving operational efficiency and ensuring safer railway traffic. Wabtec offers products and services to help customers make ongoing investments in these initiatives. Business Segments and Products We provide our products and services through two principal business segments, the Freight Segment and the Transit Segment, both of which have different market characteristics and business drivers. The acquisitions of GE Transportation and Faiveley Transport significantly strengthened our capabilities and presence in the worldwide freight and transit markets, respectively, for all of our products and services, including electronic and digital products. The Freight Segment primarily manufactures and provides aftermarket parts and services for new locomotives; provides components for new and existing locomotives and freight cars; builds new commuter locomotives; supplies rail control and infrastructure products including electronics, positive train control equipment, signal design and engineering services; provides a comprehensive suite of software-enabled solutions designed to improve customer efficiency and productivity in the transportation and mining industries; overhauls locomotives; and provides heat exchangers and cooling systems for rail and other industrial markets. Customers include large, publicly traded railroads, leasing companies, manufacturers of original equipment such as locomotives and freight cars, and utilities. Upon our acquisition of GE Transportation, we are the largest global manufacturer of diesel-electric locomotives for freight railroads producing mission-critical products and solutions that help railroads reduce operating costs, decrease fuel use, minimize downtime and comply with emissions standards. As a result of the large base of approximately 22,500 locomotives currently in use, Wabtec's services product lines of rebuilding, remanufacturing, maintaining, and exchanging locomotives and components in the aftermarkets provides a significant, recurring revenue stream. Demand is primarily driven by general economic conditions and industrial activity; traffic volumes, as measured by freight carloadings; investment in new technologies; and deliveries of new locomotives and freight cars. In 2019, the Freight Segment accounted for approximately 65% of Wabtec s total net sales, with about 55% of its net sales in the U.S. In 2019, about 60% of the Freight Segment s net sales were in the aftermarket. The Transit Segment primarily manufactures and services components for new and existing passenger transit vehicles, typically regional trains, high speed trains, subway cars, light-rail vehicles and buses; supplies rail control and infrastructure products including electronics, signal design and engineering services; and refurbishes passenger transit vehicles. Customers include public transit authorities and municipalities, leasing companies, and manufacturers of passenger transit vehicles and buses around the world. Demand in the transit market is primarily driven by general economic conditions, passenger ridership levels, government spending on public transportation, and investment in new rolling stock. In 2019, the Transit Segment accounted for approximately 35% of our total net sales, with about 15% of its net sales in the U.S. Approximately half of the Transit Segment s net sales are in the aftermarket with the remainder in the original equipment market. The addition of Faiveley Transport s key products strengthened Wabtec's presence in the following Transit product areas: high-speed braking and door systems; heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems; pantographs and power collection; information systems; platform screen doors and gates; couplers; and aftermarket services, maintenance and spare parts. Geographically, Faiveley Transport significantly strengthened Wabtec s presence in the European and Asia Pacific transit markets. Following is a summary of our leading products in both aftermarket and original equipment across both of our business segments in 2019: Equipment: Diesel-electric locomotives for freight railroads Engines, electric motors and premium propulsion systems used in locomotives, mining, marine, stationary power and drilling applications Marine and mining products 5 Digital Electronic Products: Positive Train Control equipment and electronically controlled pneumatic braking products Railway electronics, including event recorders, monitoring equipment and end of train devices Signal design and engineering services Train performance such as distributed locomotive power, train 'cruise control', and train remote control Transport intelligence such as Industrial/mobile Internet of Things (IoT) hardware software, edge-to-cloud, on and off-board analytics rules, asset performance management Transport logistics such as rail transportation management, shipper transportation management, port visibility and optimization Network optimization such as rail network scheduling, dispatch, and optimization, intermodal, terminal management and optimization, rail yard management and optimization Components: Freight car trucks and braking equipment and related components for Freight applications Draft gears, couplers and slack adjusters Air compressors and dryers Heat exchangers and cooling products for locomotives and power generation equipment Track and switch products New commuter and switcher locomotives Services: Freight locomotive overhaul and refurbishment Master service agreements for locomotive and car maintenance Transit locomotive and car overhaul Unit exchange of locomotive components Transit Products: Railway braking equipment and related components for Transit applications, including high-speed passenger transit vehicles Friction products, including brake shoes, discs and pads Heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment Doors for buses and subway cars Platform screen doors Pantographs Window assemblies Couplers Accessibility lifts and ramps for buses and subway cars Traction motors We believe we have become a leader in the freight rail and passenger transit industries by capitalizing on the strength of our existing products, technological capabilities and new product innovations, and by our ability to harden products to protect them from severe conditions, including extreme temperatures and high-vibration environments. Supported by our technical staff of more than 4,500 engineers and specialists, we have extensive experience in a broad range of product lines, which enables us to provide comprehensive, systems-based solutions for our customers. In recent years, we have introduced a number of significant new products, including Positive Train Control ( PTC ) equipment that encompasses onboard digital data and global positioning communication protocols. We are making additional investments in this technology which we believe will provide customers with opportunities to improve safety and efficiency, in 6 part through data analytics solutions. Other new products include HVAC inverter integrated solutions, brake discs and brake controls, platform doors and gates, and door controllers. In addition, we are continuing to develop Energy Management Solutions for railroads to further reduce fuel consumption and emissions. These developments include the design of a battery electric locomotive that will be integrated with other diesel electric locomotives in a train. This hybrid train consist, under the control of our Trip Optimizer software, will significantly reduce fuel consumption as well as having the ability to operate in a low emission state while in populated areas. We are also considering development of locomotives for transit services to operate in a zero emissions environment (such as a tunnel) for extended periods of time. For additional information on our business segments, see Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Competitive Strengths Our key strengths include: Iconic Legacy and Strong Reputation with a History of over 150 Years of Innovation . The rail industry has been in operation for over 150 years and we have been at the forefront of shaping and transforming the rail landscape through various innovations and technologies. Dating back to 1869 and George Westinghouse s invention of the air brake, we are an established leader in the rail industry for freight and passenger transit vehicles. For over 110 years, GE Transportation has served the worldwide rail industry, which is a critical component of the global transportation system and the global economy, with an installed base of more than 22,500 locomotives worldwide. Faiveley Transport, founded in 1919, has a long history and is a market leader for its core products, including pantographs, automatic door mechanisms and air conditioning systems. We have leveraged our leading positions by focusing on research and engineering to expand beyond pneumatic braking components to supplying integrated parts and assemblies from a full locomotive through the end of the train. We are a recognized leader in the development and production of electronic recording, measuring and communications systems, positive train control equipment, highly engineered compressors and heat exchangers for locomotives, and a leading manufacturer of freight car components, including electronic braking equipment, draft gears, trucks, brake shoes and electronic end-of-train devices. We are also a leading provider of braking equipment; heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment; door assemblies and platform screen doors; lifts and ramps; couplers and current collection equipment, such as pantographs, for passenger transit vehicles. Breadth of product offering with a stable mix of original equipment market (OEM) and aftermarket business . Our product portfolio is one of the broadest in the rail industry, as we offer a wide selection of quality parts, components and assemblies across the entire train and worldwide. We provide our products in both the original equipment market and the aftermarket. Our substantial installed base of products with end-users such as the railroads and the passenger transit authorities is a significant competitive advantage for providing products and services to the aftermarket because these customers often look to purchase safety- and performance-related replacement parts from the original equipment components supplier. In addition, as OEMs and railroad operators attempt to modernize fleets with new products designed to improve and maintain safety and efficiency, these products must be designed to be interoperable with existing equipment. In 2019, net sales of aftermarket parts and services represented about 55% of total net sales. Market Leader with Longstanding Customer Partnerships in a Critical Infrastructure Sector. For more than a century, rail has been a cornerstone of the global transportation system, and thus, the economy. Rail remains one of the most cost-effective, energy-efficient modes of transport, both domestically and internationally. As the largest global producer of diesel-electric locomotives, we have a significant market share both in North America and globally. Leading design and engineering capabilities . We believe a hallmark of our relationship with our customers has been our leading design and engineering practice, which has assisted in the improvement and modernization of global railway equipment. We believe both our customers and government authorities value our technological capabilities and commitment to innovation, as we seek not only to enhance the efficiency and profitability of our customers, but also to improve the overall safety of the railways through continuous improvement of product performance. The Company designs, develops and manufactures critical components and systems for the rail, mining and marine industries, which include proprietary propulsion systems, engine platforms and controls technology. These innovative and differentiated solutions serve as the building blocks for the rail, mining and marine industries, and help keep our global customers at the forefront of advancing technologies. When coupled with our advanced digital analytic capabilities, our solutions help drive increased energy management, performance and reliability to our products. To that end, we have assembled a wide range of patented products, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. Leading the Digital Transformation of Wabtec s Industries . Our early investment in data analytics and software has allowed us to become a strategic partner for customers looking to derive new value from assets and digitally transform their operations. Through these initiatives, the transportation industry, from mine to port, from shipper to receiver, from port to intermodal terminals to main line locomotives and railcars and across train yards and operation centers, has 7 evolved to include digital solutions. The breadth of our Digital and Electronic solutions gives customers confidence in our ability to address their current and future needs. Experience with industry regulatory requirements . The freight rail and passenger transit industries are governed by various government agencies and regulators in each country and region. These groups mandate rigorous manufacturer certification, new product testing and approval processes that we believe are difficult for new entrants to meet cost-effectively and efficiently without the scale and extensive experience we possess. Certification processes are lengthy, and often require local presence and expertise. In addition, each transit agency places a high degree of importance on vehicle customization, which requires experience and technical expertise to meet ever-evolving specifications. Streamlined Cost Structure and Operational Excellence Provide Operating Leverage and Support Wabtec s Growth . Wabtec s lean manufacturing and continuous improvement initiatives, known as the Wabtec Excellence Program ("WEP"), have been a part of the Company s culture for more than 25 years and have enabled Wabtec to manage successfully through cycles in the rail supply market. Building on our legacy WEP program, we are continuing to expand our Operating Excellence focus to also include Industry 4.0 as an additional lever in driving productivity and delighting customers. Our Operating Excellence Program leverages the breath and depth of our One Wabtec expertise across the organization in sharing of best practice, instilling a culture of learning, problem solving, continuous improvement, and driving standard operating practices. This, coupled with our overall manufacturing and supply base footprint initiatives, will drive increased flexibility and improved responsiveness to our customer needs while driving margin improvement through productivity. Business strategy We strive to generate sufficient cash to invest in our growth strategies and to build on what we consider to be a leading position as a low-cost producer in the industry while maintaining world-class product quality, technology and customer responsiveness. We continuously strive to improve quality, delivery and productivity, and to reduce costs utilizing global sourcing and supply chain management. These practices enable us to streamline processes, improve product reliability and customer satisfaction, reduce product cycle times and respond more rapidly to market developments. We also rely on functional experts within the Company across various disciplines to train, coach and share best practices throughout the corporation, while benchmarking against best-in-class competitors and peers. Over time, we expect to continue to increase operating margins, improve cash flow and strengthen our ability to invest in the following growth strategies: Product innovation and new technologies . We continue to emphasize innovation and development funding to create new products and capabilities, such as vehicle monitoring and data analytics. We have a multi-year initiative to build on our existing expertise and technologies in the digital and electronics areas. In addition, we invest in developing enhancements and new features to existing products, such as brake discs and heat exchangers. We are focusing 