ITEM 1. Business. 5 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. 21 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 36 ITEM 2. Properties. 36 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. 37 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 37 PART II 40 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 40 ITEM 6. [Reserved . ] 41 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 41 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 58 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 61 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 118 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures. 118 ITEM 9B. Other Information. 118 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 119 PART III 120 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 120 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation. 120 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 120 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 120 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 120 PART IV 121 ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 121 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary. 128 SIGNATURES 129 3 PART I CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our business, marketing and operating strategies, integration of acquired businesses, new service offerings, financial prospects, anticipated sources and uses of capital and our proposed transaction to combine our business with AT T s WarnerMedia business. Words such as anticipate, assume, believe, continue, estimate, expect, forecast, future, intend, plan, potential, predict, project, strategy, target and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like could, may, might, should, will and would, among other terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be accomplished. The following is a list of some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of, or prevent or delay our ability to consummate, our proposed transaction to combine with WarnerMedia; the effects of the announcement, pendency or completion of our proposed transaction to combine with WarnerMedia on our ongoing business operations; changes in the distribution and viewing of television programming, including the continuing expanded deployment of personal video recorders, subscription video on demand, internet protocol television, mobile personal devices, personal tablets and user-generated content and their impact on television advertising revenue; continued consolidation of distribution customers and production studios; a failure to secure affiliate agreements or the renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms; rapid technological changes; the inability of advertisers or affiliates to remit payment to us in a timely manner or at all; general economic and business conditions, including the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; industry trends, including the timing of, and spending on, feature film, television and television commercial production; spending on domestic and foreign television advertising; disagreements with our distributors or other business partners over contract interpretation; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political unrest and regulatory changes in international markets, including any proposed or adopted regulatory changes that impact the operations of our international media properties and/or modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate in international markets; market demand for foreign first-run and existing content libraries; the regulatory and competitive environment of the industries in which we, and the entities in which we have interests, operate; uncertainties regarding the financial performance of our investments in unconsolidated entities; our ability to complete, integrate, maintain and obtain the anticipated benefits and synergies from our proposed business combinations and acquisitions, including our proposed transaction to combine with WarnerMedia, on a timely basis or at all; uncertainties associated with product and service development and market acceptance, including the development and provision of programming for new television and telecommunications technologies, and the success of our discovery+ streaming product; 4 realizing direct-to-consumer subscriber goals; future financial performance, including availability, terms, and deployment of capital; the ability of suppliers and vendors to deliver products, equipment, software, and services; the outcome of any pending or threatened or potential litigation, including any litigation that has been or may be instituted against us relating to our proposed transaction to combine with WarnerMedia; availability of qualified personnel and recruiting, motivating and retaining talent; changes in, or failure or inability to comply with, government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and similar authorities internationally and data privacy regulations and adverse outcomes from regulatory proceedings; changes in income taxes due to regulatory changes or changes in our corporate structure; changes in the nature of key strategic relationships with partners, distributors and equity method investee partners; competitor responses to our products and services and the products and services of the entities in which we have interests; threatened or actual cyber-attacks and cybersecurity breaches; threatened terrorist attacks and military action; our level of debt; reduced access to capital markets or significant increases in costs to borrow; and a reduction of advertising revenue associated with unexpected reductions in the number of subscribers. These risks have the potential to impact the recoverability of the assets recorded on our balance sheets, including goodwill or other intangibles. Additionally, many of these risks are currently amplified by and may, in the future, continue to be amplified by the prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. For additional risk factors, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements and such risks, uncertainties, and other factors speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein, to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto, or any other change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. ITEM 1. Business. For convenience, the terms Discovery, the Company, we, us or our are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to refer to both Discovery, Inc. and collectively to Discovery, Inc. and one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. WarnerMedia In May 2021, the Company entered into an agreement with AT T Inc. to combine with WarnerMedia s ("WarnerMedia") entertainment, sports and news assets to create a standalone, global entertainment company. The proposed combination transaction will be executed through a Reverse Morris Trust type transaction, under which WarnerMedia will be distributed to AT T s shareholders via a pro rata distribution (i.e., a spin off). In connection with the combination transaction, AT T will receive approximately $43 billion (subject to working capital and other adjustments) in a combination of cash, debt securities and WarnerMedia s retention of certain debt. The Company has concluded that it will be considered the accounting acquirer. The Company established an interest rate derivative program to mitigate interest rate risk associated with the anticipated issuance of future fixed-rate debt by WarnerMedia, which is expected to be guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company upon closing of the transaction. (See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) Immediately prior to closing, all shares of Series A, Series B, and Series C common stock and Series A-1 and Series C-1 convertible preferred stock will be reclassified and converted to one class of the Company's common stock. AT T s shareholders that receive WarnerMedia stock in the distribution will receive stock representing 71% of the combined company and the 5 Company's shareholders will continue to own 29% of the combined company, in each case on a fully diluted basis. The Boards of Directors of both AT T and the Company have approved the transaction. The transaction is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2022, subject to approval by the Company's shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. On December 22, 2021, the transaction received unconditional antitrust clearance from the European Commission ( EC ) pursuant to the EC Merger Regulation, and on December 28, 2021, AT T received a favorable Private Letter Ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the qualification of the transactions for their intended tax-free treatments. On February 9, 2022, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, statutory waiting period has expired or otherwise been terminated, and any agreement not to consummate the transaction between the parties and the Federal Trade Commission or the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice or any other applicable governmental entity, has also expired or otherwise been terminated. Discovery and AT T are in the process of obtaining other required regulatory approvals. Agreements are in place with Dr. John Malone and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership to vote in favor of the transaction, representing approximately 43% of the aggregate voting power of the shares of Discovery voting stock. The transaction requires, among other things, the consent of Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership under the Company's certificate of incorporation as the sole holder of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, which consent was given pursuant to a consent agreement. In connection with Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership s entry into the consent agreement and related forfeiture of the significant rights attached to the Series A-1 Preferred Stock in the reclassification of the shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock into common stock, it will receive an increase to the number of shares of common stock of the Company into which the Series A-1 Preferred Stock would be converted. Upon the closing, the impact of the issuance of such additional shares of common stock of the Company will be recorded as a transaction expense. No vote by AT T shareholders is required. The merger agreement contains certain customary termination rights for Discovery and AT T, including, without limitation, a right for either party to terminate if the transaction is not completed on or before July 15, 2023. Termination under specified circumstances will require Discovery to pay AT T a termination fee of $720 million or AT T to pay Discovery a termination fee of $1.8 billion. In anticipation of this combination, in June 2021, Magallanes, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of AT T Inc., entered into a $10 billion term loan that will be guaranteed by the Company and certain material subsidiaries of the Company upon closing of the transaction. Impact of COVID-19 On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) outbreak to be a global pandemic. COVID-19 has continued to spread throughout the world, and the duration and severity of its effects and associated economic disruption remain uncertain. We continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on all aspects of our business and geographies, including the impact on our customers, employees, suppliers, vendors, distribution and advertising partners, production facilities, and various other third parties. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, demand for our advertising products and services decreased due to economic disruptions from limitations on social and commercial activity. These economic disruptions and the resulting effect on us eased during the second half of 2020. The pandemic did not have a significant impact on demand during fiscal year 2021. Many of our third-party production partners that were shut down during most of the second quarter of 2020 due to COVID-19 restrictions came back online in the third quarter of 2020 and, as a result, we have incurred additional costs to comply with various governmental regulations and implement certain safety measures for our employees, talent, and partners. Additionally, certain sporting events that we have rights to were cancelled or postponed, thereby eliminating or deferring the related revenues and expenses, including the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, which occurred in July and August 2021. The postponement of the 2020 Olympic Games deferred both Olympic-related revenues and significant expenses from fiscal year 2020 to fiscal year 2021. In response to the impact of the pandemic, we employed innovative production and programming strategies, including producing content filmed by our on-air talent and seeking viewer feedback on which content to air. We pursued a number of cost savings initiatives, which began during the third quarter of 2020 through the implementation of travel, marketing, production and other operating cost reductions, including personnel reductions, restructurings and resource reallocations to align our expense structure to ongoing changes within the industry. 6 The full extent of COVID-19 s effects on our operations and results is not yet known and will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity and the extent of future surges of COVID-19, vaccine distribution and other actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, among others. We will continue to monitor COVID-19 and its impact on our business results and financial condition. The consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect management s latest estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods presented. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates and assumptions. OVERVIEW We are a global media company that provides content across multiple distribution platforms, including linear platforms such as pay-television ("pay-TV"), free-to-air ("FTA") and broadcast television, authenticated GO applications, digital distribution arrangements, content licensing arrangements and direct-to-consumer ("DTC") subscription products. As one of the world s largest pay-TV programmers, we provide original and purchased content and live events to approximately 3.5 billion cumulative subscribers and viewers worldwide through networks that we wholly or partially own. We distribute customized content in the U.S. and over 220 other countries and territories in over 50 languages. We have an extensive library of content and own most rights to our content and footage, which enables us to leverage our library to quickly launch brands and services into new markets and on new platforms. Our content can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world on a variety of platforms. Our content spans genres including survival, natural history, exploration, sports, general entertainment, home, food, travel, heroes, adventure, crime and investigation, health, and kids. Our global portfolio of networks includes prominent nonfiction television brands such as Discovery Channel, our most widely distributed global brand, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, Animal Planet, Investigation Discovery, Travel Channel, Science, and MotorTrend (previously known as Velocity domestically and currently known as Turbo in most international distribution countries). Among other networks in the U.S., Discovery also features two Spanish-language services, Discovery en Espa ol and Discovery Familia. Discovery Sports oversees our international portfolio of sports businesses, brands, channels and platforms. This includes Eurosport, a leading multi-sports entertainment destination and broadcaster of the Olympic Games (the "Olympics") across Europe (excluding Russia), live and on-demand sports streaming, including Eurosport s content, on discovery+; Global Cycling Network and Global Mountain Bike Network, part of the cycling media group; Golf Digest, a premier golf destination; and Discovery Sports Events, a global sports promoter. Beyond sports, our international portfolio includes TVN, a Polish media company, as well as Discovery Kids, a leading children's entertainment brand in Latin America. We participate in joint ventures including Magnolia, the multi-platform venture with Chip and Joanna Gaines, and Group Nine Media, a digital media holding company home to digital brands including NowThis News, the Dodo, Thrillist, PopSugar, and Seeker. We also operate production studios. In 2021, we launched discovery+, our aggregated DTC product, in the U.S. across several streaming platforms and entered into a partnership with Verizon. Since then, discovery+ has expanded internationally, including the UK, Canada, the Philippines, Brazil, Italy and India. As of December 31, 2021, we had 22 million total paid DTC subscribers. 1 discovery+ currently has an extensive content library, including original series and documentaries. The service is available with ads or on an ad-free tier, providing us with dual revenue streams. We aim to generate revenues principally from the sale of advertising on our networks and digital products and from fees charged to distributors that carry our network brands and content, primarily including cable, direct-to-home ("DTH") satellite, telecommunication and digital service providers, as well as through DTC subscription services. Other revenue-generating transactions include affiliate and advertising sales representation services, production studios content development and services content licenses, and the licensing of our brands for consumer products. During 2021, advertising, distribution and other revenues were 51%, 44% and 5%, respectively, of consolidated revenues. 1 We define a DTC subscription as (i) a subscription to a direct-to-consumer product for which we have recognized subscription revenue from a direct-to-consumer platform; (ii) a subscription received through wholesale arrangements for which we receive a fee for the distribution of our direct-to-consumer platforms, as well as subscriptions provided directly or through third-party platforms; and (iii) a subscription recognized by certain joint venture partners and affiliated parties. We may refer to the aggregate number of subscriptions across our direct-to-consumer services as subscribers. A subscription is only counted if it is on a paying status, and excludes users on free trials. At the end of each quarter, the subscription count includes the actual number of users that rolled to pay up to seven days immediately following quarter end. 7 We aim to invest in high-quality content for our networks and brands with the objective of building viewership, optimizing distribution revenue, capturing advertising revenue, and creating or repositioning branded channels and business to sustain long-term growth and occupy a desired content niche with strong consumer appeal. Our strategy is to maximize the distribution, ratings and profit potential of each of our linear branded networks and genres, as well as our DTC products. We have grown distribution and advertising revenues for our linear branded networks and discovery+. In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenues for our branded networks, we have extended content distribution across new platforms, including brand-aligned websites, online streaming, mobile devices, VOD, and broadband channels, which provide promotional platforms for our television content and serve as additional outlets for advertising and distribution revenue. Our goal is to reach consumers wherever and whenever they are consuming content, as well as reaching new audiences including broadband only, cord cutters and cord nevers, while continuing to serve our linear network subscribers. Audience ratings, audience engagement and channel packaging are key drivers in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, DTH satellite operators, telecommunication service providers, device partners and other content distributors who deliver our content to their customers. Although we utilize certain brands and content globally, we classify our operations in two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic television networks and digital content services, and International Networks, consisting primarily of international television networks and digital content services. Our segment presentation aligns with our management structure and the financial information management uses to make decisions about operating matters, such as the allocation of resources and business performance assessments. Financial information for our segments and the geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Network Brands Subscriber statistics set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include both wholly-owned networks and networks operated by equity method investees. Domestic subscriber statistics are based on Nielsen Media Research. International subscriber and viewer statistics are derived from internal data coupled with external sources when available. As used herein, a subscriber is a single household that receives the applicable network from its cable television operator, DTH satellite operator, telecommunication service provider, or other television provider, including those who receive our networks from pay-TV providers without charge pursuant to various pricing plans that include free periods and/or free carriage. The term cumulative subscribers refers to the sum of the total number of subscribers to each of our networks or content services. By way of example, two households that each receive five of our networks from their pay-TV provider represent two subscribers, but 10 cumulative subscribers. The term "viewer" is a single household that receives the signal from one of our networks using the appropriate receiving equipment without a subscription to a pay-TV provider. Our brands consist of the following: Discovery Channel had approximately 81 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2021. Discovery Channel had approximately 266 million cumulative subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2021. Discovery Channel is dedicated to creating high-quality, non-fiction content that informs and entertains its viewers about the world in all its wonder, diversity and amazement. The network offers a signature mix of high-end production values and vivid cinematography across genres including science and technology, exploration, adventure, history and in-depth, behind-the-scenes glimpses at the people, places and organizations that shape and share our world. In the U.S., Discovery Channel audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through the Discovery GO app, which features live and on-demand access. Discovery Channel content is led by numerous franchises such as Gold Rush, Street Outlaws, Deadliest Catch, Moonshiners, Expedition Unknown, BattleBots, and Naked Afraid . It is also known for its blue-chip and natural history specials such as Serengeti , and is home to Shark Week , the network's long-running annual summer TV event. Target viewers are adults in the 25 to 54 age range, particularly men. 8 HGTV had approximately 82 million subscribers in the U.S. and approximately 176 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2021. HGTV programming content attracts audiences interested specifically in home/lifestyle related topics, including real estate, renovation, restoration, decorating, interior or landscape design and fantasy lifestyles, as well as docu-series and reality competitions focused on those genres. In the U.S., HGTV audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through the Discovery GO app, which features live and on-demand access. Content on HGTV includes: Home Town, Home Town Takeover, Flip or Flop, Christina on the Coast, Flipping 101, Love It or List It, Tough Love with Hilary Farr, Celebrity IOU, Property Brothers: Forever Home, Fixer to Fabulous, House Hunters, My Lottery Dream Home, Good Bones, Unsellable Houses, and Rock the Block. Target viewers are adults with higher incomes in the 25 to 54 age range, particularly women. Our most widely distributed ad-supported cable network in the U.S., Food Network had approximately 82 million subscribers in the U.S. and approximately 112 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2021. Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested in food-related entertainment, including competition and travel, as well as food-related topics such as recipes, food preparation, entertaining, and dining out. In the U.S., Food Network audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through the Discovery GO app, which features live and on-demand access, as well as on the Food Network Kitchen app. Content on Food Network includes primetime series Beat Bobby Flay, BBQ Brawl, Chef Boot Camp, Chopped, Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives, The Great Food Truck Race, Guy s Grocery Games, Restaurant: Impossible, Worst Cooks in America , and several seasonal baking championships such as Christmas Cookie Challenge, Halloween Baking Championship, Halloween Wars, Holiday Baking Championship, Holiday Wars, Spring Baking Championship and more, as well as daytime series Barefoot Contessa, Delicious Miss Brown, Girl Meets Farm, Guy's Ranch Kitchen, The Kitchen, The Pioneer Woman, Simply Giada, Trisha s Southern Kitchen, Tournament of Champions, and Valerie's Home Cooking . Target viewers are adults with higher incomes in the 25 to 54 age range, particularly women. 9 TLC had approximately 80 million subscribers in the U.S. and 5 million subscribers in Canada that are included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2021. TLC content had approximately 357 million cumulative subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2021 including the Home Health and Real Time brands. Offering real-life stories without judgment, TLC shares everyday heart, humor, hope, and human connection with programming genres that include fascinating families, heartwarming transformations and life's milestone moments. In the U.S., TLC audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through the Discovery GO app, which features live and on-demand access. Content on TLC includes the 90 Day Fianc franchise, Sister Wives, I Am Jazz, Dr. Pimple Popper, 1,000-lb Sisters, Welcome to Plathville, Doubling Down with the Derricos, I am Shauna Rae, 7 Little Johnstons, My Big Fat Fabulous Life, Little People Big World, Unexpected, I Love a Mama's Boy, My 600-lb Life, and My Feet Are Killing Me. Target viewers are adults in the 25 to 54 age range, particularly women. Animal Planet had approximately 79 million subscribers in the U.S. and approximately 178 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2021. Animal Planet is dedicated to creating high quality content that keeps the childhood joy and wonder of animals alive by showcasing their stories and the people that work with them. In the U.S., Animal Planet audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through the Animal Planet GO app, which features live and on-demand access. Content and talent on Animal Planet include Crikey! It's the Irwins, The Zoo, Mysterious Creatures with Forrest Galante, The Zoo: San Diego, Pit Bulls Parolees, Dr. Jeff: Rocky Mountain Vet, North Woods Law and Lone Star Law . Animal Planet is also home to Puppy Bowl , the original and longest running animal adoption event on television. Target viewers are adults in the 25 to 54 age range. 10 Investigation Discovery ("ID") had approximately 81 million subscribers in the U.S. and approximately 90 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2021. ID is a leading true crime, mystery and suspense network. From in-depth investigations to riveting mysteries, ID challenges our everyday understanding of culture