ITEM 1. Business. 5 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. 13 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 27 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity. 27 ITEM 2. Properties. 28 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. 29 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 29 PART II 31 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 31 ITEM 6. [Reserved.] 32 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 32 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 52 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 55 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 116 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures. 116 ITEM 9B. Other Information. 116 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 116 PART III 117 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 117 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation. 117 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 117 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 117 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 117 PART IV 118 ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 118 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary. 127 SIGNATURES 128 3 PART I CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our business, marketing and operating strategies, integration of acquired businesses, new product and service offerings, financial prospects and anticipated sources and uses of capital. Words such as anticipate, assume, believe, continue, estimate, expect, forecast, future, intend, plan, potential, predict, project, strategy, target and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like could, may, might, should, will and would, among other terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be accomplished. The following is a list of some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: more intense competitive pressure from existing or new competitors in the industries in which we operate; reduced spending on domestic and foreign television advertising, due to macroeconomic, industry or consumer behavior trends or unexpected reductions in our number of subscribers; uncertainties associated with product and service development and market acceptance, including the development and provision of programming for new television and telecommunications technologies, and the success of our streaming services; market demand for foreign first-run and existing content libraries; negative publicity or damage to our brands, reputation or talent; realizing direct-to-consumer subscriber goals; industry trends, including the timing of, and spending on, sports programming, feature film, television and television commercial production; the possibility or duration of an industry-wide strike, such as the strikes of the Writers Guild of America ( WGA ) and Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists ( SAG-AFTRA ) in 2023, player lock-outs or other job action affecting a major entertainment industry union, athletes or others involved in the development and production of our sports programming, television programming, feature films and interactive entertainment (e.g., games) who are covered by collective bargaining agreements; disagreements with our distributors or other business partners; continued consolidation of distribution customers and production studios; potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences or unforeseen increased expenses associated with the WarnerMedia Business or our efforts to integrate the WarnerMedia Business; adverse outcomes of legal proceedings or disputes related to our acquisition of the WarnerMedia Business; changes in, or failure or inability to comply with, laws and government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and similar authorities internationally and data privacy regulations, and adverse outcomes from regulatory or legal proceedings; inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial forecasts; our level of debt, including the significant indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition of the WarnerMedia Business, and our future compliance with debt covenants; threatened or actual cyber-attacks and cybersecurity breaches; theft of our content and unauthorized duplication, distribution and exhibition of such content; and general economic and business conditions, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, global events such as pandemics, and political unrest in the international markets in which we operate. Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties which change over time, are based on management s expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made and are not guarantees of future results. 4 These risks have the potential to impact the recoverability of the assets recorded on our balance sheets, including goodwill or other intangibles. Management s expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of any forward-looking statements we make, cannot be foreseen with certainty and are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the U.S. and global economies and regulatory environments, factors specific to Warner Bros. Discovery and other factors described under Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or disclosed in our other SEC filings. These forward-looking statements and such risks, uncertainties, and other factors speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein, to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto, or any other change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. ITEM 1. Business. For convenience, the terms Warner Bros. Discovery , WBD , the Company, we, us or our are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to refer to both Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. and collectively to Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. and one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. Merger with the WarnerMedia Business of AT T On April 8, 2022 (the Closing Date ), Discovery, Inc. ( Discovery ) completed its merger (the Merger ) with the WarnerMedia business (the WarnerMedia Business , WM Business or WM ) of AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and changed its name to Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. On April 11, 2022, the Company s shares started trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market ( Nasdaq ) under the trading symbol WBD. The Merger was executed through a Reverse Morris Trust type transaction, under which WM was distributed to AT T s shareholders via a pro rata distribution, and immediately thereafter, combined with Discovery. (See Note 3 and Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Prior to the Merger, WarnerMedia Holdings, Inc. ( WMH ) distributed $40.5 billion to AT T (subject to working capital and other adjustments) in a combination of cash, debt securities, and WM s retention of certain debt. Discovery transferred purchase consideration of $42.4 billion in equity to AT T shareholders in the Merger. In August 2022, the Company and AT T finalized the post-closing working capital settlement process, which resulted in the Company receiving a $1.2 billion payment from AT T in the third quarter of 2022 in lieu of adjusting the equity issued as consideration in the Merger. AT T shareholders received shares of WBD Series A common stock ( WBD common stock ) in the Merger representing 71% of the combined Company and the Company s pre-Merger shareholders continued to own 29% of the combined Company, in each case on a fully diluted basis. Discovery was deemed to be the accounting acquirer of the WM Business for accounting purposes under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( U.S. GAAP ); therefore, Discovery is considered the Company s predecessor and the historical financial statements of Discovery prior to April 8, 2022, are reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the Company s historical financial statements. Accordingly, the financial results of the Company as of and for any periods prior to April 8, 2022 do not include the financial results of the WM Business and current and future results will not be comparable to results prior to the Merger. Industry Trends The WGA and SAG-AFTRA went on strike in May and July 2023, respectively, following the expiration of their respective collective bargaining agreements with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers ( AMPTP ). The WGA strike ended on September 27, 2023, and a new collective bargaining agreement was ratified on October 9, 2023. The SAG-AFTRA strike ended on November 9, 2023, and a new collective bargaining agreement was ratified on December 5, 2023. The strikes had a material impact on the operations and results of the Company, including a pause on certain theatrical and television productions. Effects included a positive impact on cash flow from operations attributed to delayed production spend, and a negative impact on the results of operations attributed to timing and performance of the 2023 film slate, as well as the Company s ability to produce, license, and deliver content. Other headwinds in the industry, such as continued pressures on linear distribution and soft advertising markets in the U.S., have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material impact on the operations and results of the Company, including a negative impact on the results of operations attributed to declines in linear advertising revenue. We continue to closely monitor the ongoing impact of industry trends to our business; however, the full effects on our operations and results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. 5 Description of Business Warner Bros. Discovery is a premier global media and entertainment company that provides audiences with a differentiated portfolio of content, brands and franchises across television, film, streaming, and gaming. Some of our iconic brands and franchises include Warner Bros. Motion Picture Group, Warner Bros. Television Group, DC, HBO, HBO Max, Max, discovery+, CNN, Discovery Channel, HGTV, Food Network, TNT Sports, TBS, TLC, OWN, Warner Bros. Games, Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, Harry Potter, Looney Tunes, Hanna-Barbera, Game of Thrones, and The Lord of the Rings. We are home to powerful creative engines and one of the largest collections of owned content in the world. WBD has one of the strongest hands in the industry in terms of the completeness and quality of assets and intellectual property across sports, news, lifestyle, and entertainment in virtually every region of the globe and in most languages. We serve audiences and consumers around the world with content that informs, entertains, and, when at its best, inspires. Our asset mix positions us to drive a balanced approach to creating long-term value for shareholders. It represents the full entertainment ecosystem, and the ability to serve consumers across the entire spectrum of offerings from domestic and international networks, premium pay-TV, streaming, production and release of feature films and original series, related consumer products and themed experience licensing, and interactive gaming. We generate revenue from the sale of advertising on our networks and digital platforms (advertising revenue); fees charged to distributors that carry our network brands and programming, including cable, direct-to-home ( DTH ) satellite, telecommunication and digital service providers, as well as through direct-to-consumer ( DTC ) subscription services (distribution revenue); the release of feature films for initial exhibition in theaters, the licensing of feature films and television programs to various television, subscription video on demand ( SVOD ) and other digital markets, distribution of feature films and television programs in the physical and digital home entertainment markets, sales of console games and mobile in-game content, sublicensing of sports rights, and licensing of intellectual property such as characters and brands (content revenue); and other sources such as studio tours and production services (other revenue). Segments As of December 31, 2023, we classified our operations in three reportable segments: Studios - Our Studios segment primarily consists of the production and release of feature films for initial exhibition in theaters, production and initial licensing of television programs to our networks/DTC services as well as third parties, distribution of our films and television programs to various third party and internal television and streaming services, distribution through the home entertainment market (physical and digital), related consumer products and themed experience licensing, and interactive gaming. Networks - Our Networks segment primarily consists of our domestic and international television networks. DTC - Our DTC segment primarily consists of our premium pay-TV and streaming services. Our segment presentation aligns with our management structure and the financial information management uses to make decisions about operating matters, such as the allocation of resources and business performance assessments. Financial information for our segments and the geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Studios WBD s Studios business includes the Warner Bros. Motion Picture Group ( WBMPG ), DC Studios, Warner Bros. Television Group ( WBTVG ), Consumer Products, Themed Entertainment and Brand Licensing, DC Comics Publishing, Content Licensing, Home Entertainment, Studio Operations, and Interactive Gaming. WBMPG is comprised of Warner Bros. Pictures, New Line Cinema, and Warner Bros. Pictures Animation . WBMPG partners with captivating storytellers to create filmed entertainment for a global audience. DC Studios, tasked with developing properties licensed from DC Comics for film, television and animation, continues the tradition of high-quality storytelling within the DC Universe, while building a sustainable growth business out of the iconic characters. WBTVG consists of Warner Bros. Television, the Company s flagship television production unit for live-action scripted programming, as well as Warner Bros. Unscripted Television , which produces unscripted and alternative programming through its four production units Warner Horizon Unscripted Television, Telepictures , Warner Bros. International Television Production, and Shed Media . WBTVG also includes Warner Bros. Animation, Cartoon Network Studios, and Hanna-Barbera Studios Europe . 6 Among the Studios segment s content highlights for 2023 were Barbie, the #1 movie of the year globally based on worldwide gross revenue , Wonka, Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom, and The Nun II on the film side and award-winning TV titles including Abbott Elementary , Ted Lasso , Night Court, Shrinking, Genndy Tartakovsky s Primal, The Golden Bachelor, and The Voice. Beyond its production operations, the Studios segment includes various businesses that facilitate consumer interaction with the intellectual property it creates. Global Consumer Products, Themed Entertainment and Brand Licensing, and world-renowned comic and publishing powerhouse DC Comics, all drive opportunities for consumers to engage with WBD s leading entertainment brands and franchises. Global distribution of most of WBD s content is handled by Content Sales , which provides content for viewers across streaming, cable, satellite and broadcast networks, local television stations, and airlines. Warner Bros. Home Entertainment oversees the global distribution of content through physical goods (Blu-ray Disc and DVD) and digital media in the form of electronic sell-through and video-on-demand via cable, satellite, online, and mobile channels. The Studios segment also includes Warner Bros. Games , a worldwide publisher, developer, licensor, and distributor of content for the interactive space across all platforms, including console, handheld, mobile, and PC-based gaming for both internal and third-party game titles. Based on the Wizarding World of Harry Potter franchise, Warner Bros. Games launched Hogwarts Legacy in 2023, which became the #1 game of the year globally. Part of the Worldwide Studio Operations group , Warner Bros. Studio Tour London The Making of Harry Potter and Warner Bros. Studio Tour Hollywood attract visitors from around the world, giving fans the opportunity to get closer to the entertainment they love. In June of 2023, the Worldwide Studios Operations group opened the Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo The Making of Harry Potter, a new experience that was the first Warner Bros. Studio Tour to open in Asia. For the year ended December 31, 2023, content and other revenues were 93% and 7%, respectively, of total revenues for this segment. Networks WBD s linear network operations include general entertainment, lifestyle, and news networks in the U.S., as well as a host of international media networks and global sports networks. General entertainment networks in the U.S. include TNT , cable s #1 entertainment network; TBS , a top-rated destination for television among young adults; and Turner Classic Movies . WBD s other entertainment networks include OWN, Discovery Channel, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, and truTV among many others. Leading the lifestyle category are Magnolia Network , comprised of a collection of inspiring original series curated by Chip and Joanna Gaines featuring some of the U.S. s most talented names in home and design, food, gardening, and the arts; HGTV , with relatable stories, real estate and renovation experts and home transformations; and Food Network , which connects viewers to the power and joy of food. Additional lifestyle networks include Travel Channel, Science Channel, TLC, and Hogar de HGTV among many others. In 2023, CNN , our global news brand, launched CNN Max in the U.S., giving audiences the ability to access a combination of on-air CNN content and exclusive programming on WBD s streaming service, Max. WBD Sports (rebranded in January 2024 as TNT Sports) is a global leader in premium sports content across multiple platforms, engaging fans in the U.S. and internationally. TNT Sports U.S. sports rights include the National Basketball Association ( NBA ), Major League Baseball ( MLB ), National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ), National Hockey League ( NHL ), and United States Soccer Federation ( USSF ). WBD Sports Europe features Eurosport, a leading sport destination and the home of the Olympic Games in Europe, as well as the Global Cycling Network ( GCN ), and Global Mountain Bike Network ( GMBN ). TNT Sports owned-and-operated platforms include Bleacher Report, Eurosport.com, House of Highlights, HighlightHER, and a full suite of digital and social brands. In 2023, WBD exited its regional sports business ( AT T SportsNets ) in the U.S. In addition to the global networks described above, we operate networks internationally. TVN operates a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle, entertainment, and news networks in Poland. For the year ended December 31, 2023, distribution, advertising, content, and other revenues were 54%, 39%, 5%, and 2%, respectively, of total revenues for this segment. 7 DTC WBD s DTC business includes our streaming services, such as Max, HBO Max, and discovery+ , and premium pay-TV services, such as HBO. Our streaming services are available on most mobile and connected TV devices. As of December 31, 2023, we had 97.7 million DTC subscribers 1 . HBO is one of the most respected and innovative entertainment brands in the world, serving iconic, award-winning programming through the HBO linear channels and our DTC streaming service, Max. In May 2023, WBD launched Max , creating a new destination for HBO Originals, Warner Bros. films, Max Originals, the DC universe, the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, CNN, an expansive offering of kids content, and among the best programming across food, home, reality, lifestyle and documentaries from leading brands like HGTV, Food Network, Discovery Channel, TLC, ID and more. Max initially launched in the U.S. and will roll out in international territories, starting in Latin America and the Caribbean in the first quarter of 2024, with more markets in EMEA and APAC to follow later in the year. discovery+ is WBD s non-fiction, real-life subscription-based streaming service. discovery+ features a wide range of exclusive, original series across popular passion verticals, including lifestyle and relationships; home and food; true crime; paranormal; adventure and natural history; science, tech, and the environment; and a slate of high-quality documentaries. Max, HBO Max, and discovery+ currently feature both ad-free and ad-lite versions. For the year ended December 31, 2023, distribution, advertising, and content revenues are 86%, 5%, and 9%, respectively, of total revenues for this segment. COMPETITION Providing content across various distribution platforms is a highly competitive business worldwide. We experience competition for the development and acquisition of content, distribution of our content, sale of commercial time on our networks and viewership. There is competition from other production studios, other television networks, and online-based content providers for the acquisition of content and creative talent such as writers, producers and directors. In addition, the composition of our competitors has evolved with the entrance of new market participants, including companies in adjacent sectors with significant financial, marketing, and other resources, greater efficiencies of scale, fewer regulatory burdens and more competitive pricing. Our ability to produce and acquire popular content is an important competitive factor for the distribution of our content, attracting viewers and the sale of advertising. Our success in securing popular content and creative talent depends on various factors such as the number of competitors providing content that targets the same genre and audience, the distribution of our content, viewership, and the production, marketing and advertising support we provide. Our networks compete with other television networks, including broadcast, cable and local, for the distribution of our content and fees charged to cable television operators, DTH satellite service providers, and other distributors that carry our content. Our ability to secure distribution agreements is necessary to ensure the retention of our audiences. Our contractual agreements with distributors are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Growth in the number of networks distributed, consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry, and increased popularity of other platforms may adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of our content that are as favorable as those currently in place. The ability to secure distribution agreements is dependent upon the production, acquisition and packaging of content, viewership, the marketing and advertising support and incentives provided to distributors, the product offering across a series of networks within a region, and the prices charged for carriage. 1 Direct-to-Consumer subscriber - We define a Core DTC Subscription as: (i) a retail subscription to discovery+, HBO, HBO Max, Max, or a Premium Sports Product (defined below) for which we have recognized subscription revenue, whether directly or through a third party, from a direct-to-consumer platform; (ii) a wholesale subscription to discovery+, HBO, HBO Max, Max, or a Premium Sports Product for which we have recognized subscription revenue from a fixed-fee arrangement with a third party and where the individual user has activated their subscription; (iii) a wholesale subscription to discovery+, HBO, HBO Max, Max, or a Premium Sports Product for which we have recognized subscription revenue on a per subscriber basis; (iv) a retail or wholesale subscription to an independently-branded, regional product sold on a stand-alone basis that includes discovery+, HBO, HBO Max, Max, and/or a Premium Sports Product, for which we have recognized subscription revenue (as per (i)-(iii) above); and (v) users on free trials who convert to a subscription for which we have recognized subscription revenue within the first seven days of the calendar month immediately following the month in which their free trial expires. The Company defines a Premium Sports Product as a strategically prioritized, sports-focused product sold on a stand-alone basis and made available directly to consumers. The current independently-branded, regional products referred to in (iv) above consist of TVN/Player and BluTV. We may refer to the aggregate number of DTC Subscriptions as subscribers . The reported number of subscribers included herein and the definition of DTC Subscription as used herein excludes: (i) individuals who subscribe to DTC products, other than discovery+, HBO, HBO Max, Max, a Premium Sports Product, and independently-branded, regional products (currently consisting of TVN/Player and BluTV) that may be offered by us or by certain joint venture partners or affiliated parties from time to time; (ii) a limited number of international discovery+ subscribers that are part of non-strategic partnerships or short-term arrangements as may be identified by the Company from time to time; (iii) domestic and international Cinemax subscribers, and international basic HBO subscribers; and (iv) users on free trials except for those users on free trial that convert to a DTC Subscription within the first seven days of the next month as noted above. 8 Our networks and streaming services, which include Max, HBO Max, and discovery+, compete for the sale of advertising with other television networks, including broadcast, cable, local networks, and other content distribution outlets for their target audiences and the sale of advertising. Our success in selling advertising is a function of the size and demographics of our audiences, quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the audience of each network, the perceived quality of the network and of the particular content, the brand appeal of the network and ratings as determined by third-party research companies, prices charged for advertising and overall advertiser demand in the marketplace. Our networks and streaming services also compete for their target audiences with all forms of content and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast, cable and local networks, streaming services, pay-per-view and video-on-demand ( VOD ) services, online activities and other forms of news, information and media entertainment. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We are one of the world s leading creators, owners and distributors of intellectual property. Our intellectual property assets include copyrights in films, television programs, software, comic books and mobile apps; trademarks in names, logos and characters; patents or patent applications for inventions related to products and services; websites; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds from third parties. We have made and will continue to make investments in developing technology platforms to support our digital products and streaming services, including Max, HBO Max, and discovery+, and consider these platforms to be intellectual property assets as well. We are a global media and entertainment company and the protection of our content and brands is of primary importance. To protect our intellectual property assets, we rely upon a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, unfair competition, and internet/domain name statutes and laws, and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories, and new legislative or regulatory initiatives could impact our operations. We seek to limit unauthorized use of our intellectual property through a combination of approaches. However, the steps taken to prevent the infringement of our intellectual property by unauthorized third parties may not be effective. Piracy, which encompasses the theft of ou