ITEM 1. Business. 5 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 30 ITEM 2. Properties. 31 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. 31 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 31 PART II 34 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 34 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data. 36 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 38 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 58 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 60 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 143 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures. 143 ITEM 9B. Other Information. 143 PART III 143 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 143 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation. 144 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 144 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 144 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 144 PART IV 144 ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 145 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary. 152 SIGNATURES 153 3 PART I CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our business, marketing and operating strategies, integration of acquired businesses, new service offerings, financial prospects, and anticipated sources and uses of capital. Words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes, and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be accomplished. The following is a list of some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: changes in the distribution and viewing of television programming, including the expanded deployment of personal video recorders, subscription video on demand ( SVOD ), internet protocol television, mobile personal devices and personal tablets and their impact on television advertising revenue; continued consolidation of distribution customers and production studios; a failure to secure affiliate agreements or renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms; rapid technological changes; the inability of advertisers or affiliates to remit payment to us in a timely manner or at all; general economic and business conditions; industry trends, including the timing of, and spending on, feature film, television and television commercial production; spending on domestic and foreign television advertising; disagreements with our distributors or other business partners over contract interpretation; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political unrest and regulatory changes in international markets; market demand for foreign first-run and existing content libraries; the regulatory and competitive environment of the industries in which we, and the entities in which we have interests, operate; uncertainties inherent in the development of new business lines and business strategies; uncertainties regarding the financial performance of our equity method investees; our ability to complete, integrate, maintain and obtain the anticipated benefits and synergies from our proposed business combinations and acquisitions, including our 2018 acquisition of Scripps Networks, on a timely basis or at all; uncertainties associated with product and service development and market acceptance, including the development and provision of programming for new television and telecommunications technologies; future financial performance, including availability, terms, and deployment of capital; the ability of suppliers and vendors to deliver products, equipment, software, and services; our ability to achieve the efficiencies, savings and other benefits anticipated from our cost-reduction initiatives; the outcome of any pending or threatened litigation; availability of qualified personnel; the possibility or duration of an industry-wide strike or other job action affecting a major entertainment industry union; changes in, or failure or inability to comply with, government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations of the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and data privacy regulations and adverse outcomes from regulatory proceedings; 4 changes in income taxes due to regulatory changes or changes in our corporate structure; changes in the nature of key strategic relationships with partners, distributors and equity method investee partners; competitor responses to our products and services and the products and services of the entities in which we have interests; threatened or actual cyber or terrorist attacks and military action; our level of debt; reduced access to capital markets or significant increases in costs to borrow; and a reduction of advertising revenue associated with unexpected reductions in the number of subscribers. These risks have the potential to impact the recoverability of the assets recorded on our balance sheets, including goodwill or other intangibles. For additional risk factors, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements and such risks, uncertainties, and other factors speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein, to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto, or any other change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. ITEM 1. Business. For convenience, the terms Discovery, the Company, we, us or our are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to refer to both Discovery, Inc. and collectively to Discovery, Inc. and one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. On March 6, 2018, the Company acquired Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. ("Scripps Networks") and changed its name from "Discovery Communications, Inc." to "Discovery, Inc." (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) We were formed in September 2008 as a Delaware corporation in connection with Discovery Holding Company ( DHC ) and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership ( Advance/Newhouse ) combining their respective ownership interests in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC ( DCH ) and exchanging those interests with and into Discovery (the Discovery Formation ). As a result of the Discovery Formation, DHC and DCH became wholly-owned subsidiaries of Discovery, with Discovery becoming the successor reporting entity to DHC. OVERVIEW We are a global media company that provides content across multiple distribution platforms, including linear platforms such as pay-television ("pay-TV"), free-to-air ("FTA") and broadcast television, authenticated GO applications, digital distribution arrangements, content licensing arrangements and direct-to-consumer ("DTC") subscription products. As one of the world s largest pay-TV programmers, we provide original and purchased content and live events to approximately 3.8 billion cumulative subscribers and viewers worldwide through networks that we wholly or partially own. We distribute customized content in the U.S. and over 220 other countries and territories in 50 languages. Our global portfolio of networks includes prominent nonfiction television brands such as Discovery Channel, our most widely distributed global brand, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, Animal Planet, Investigation Discovery, Travel Channel, Science Channel, and MotorTrend (previously known as Velocity domestically and currently known as Turbo in most international countries). Among other networks in the U.S., Discovery also features two Spanish-language services, Discovery en Espa ol and Discovery Familia. Our international portfolio also includes Eurosport, a leading sports entertainment provider and broadcaster of the Olympic Games (the "Olympics") across Europe, TVN, a Polish media company, as well as Discovery Kids, a leading children's entertainment brand in Latin America. We participate in joint ventures including the recently formed multi-platform venture with Chip and Joanna Gaines, which plans to launch linear networks, SVOD and TV Everywhere ("TVE") products in 2020; and Group Nine Media ("Group Nine"), a digital media holding company home to top digital brands including NowThis News, the Dodo, Thrillist, PopSugar, and Seeker. We operate production studios, and prior to the sale of our Education Business in April 2018, we sold curriculum-based education products and services (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) 5 We generate revenues principally from the sale of advertising on our networks and digital products and from fees charged to distributors who distribute our network content, which primarily include cable, direct-to-home ("DTH") satellite, telecommunication and digital service providers, as well as through DTC subscription services. Other transactions include curriculum-based products and services, affiliate and advertising sales representation services, production studios content development and services, content licenses and the licensing of our brands for consumer products. During 2019 , advertising, distribution and other revenues were 54% , 43% and 3% , respectively, of consolidated revenues. No individual customer represented more than 10% of our total consolidated revenues for 2019 , 2018 or 2017 . Our objectives are to invest in high-quality content for our networks and brands to build viewership, optimize distribution revenue, capture advertising sales, and create or reposition branded channels and business to sustain long-term growth and occupy a desired content niche with strong consumer appeal. Our strategy is to maximize the distribution, ratings and profit potential of each of our branded networks. In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenues for our branded networks, we have extended content distribution across new platforms, including brand-aligned websites, online streaming, mobile devices, video on demand ( VOD ) and broadband channels, which provide promotional platforms for our television content and serve as additional outlets for advertising and distribution revenue. Audience ratings are a key driver in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, DTH satellite operators, telecommunication service providers, and other content distributors who deliver our content to their customers. Our content spans genres including survival, natural history, exploration, sports, general entertainment, home, food and travel, heroes, adventure, crime and investigation, health and kids. We have an extensive library of content and own most rights to our content and footage, which enables us to leverage our library to quickly launch brands and services into new markets and on new platforms. Our content can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world on a variety of platforms. Although the Company utilizes certain brands and content globally, we classify our operations in two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic television networks and digital content services, and International Networks, consisting primarily of international television networks and digital content services. Our segment presentation aligns with our management structure and the financial information management uses to make decisions about operating matters, such as the allocation of resources and business performance assessments. Financial information for our segments and the geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Network Brands Subscriber statistics set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include both wholly-owned networks and networks operated by equity method investees. Domestic subscriber statistics are based on Nielsen Media Research. International subscriber and viewer statistics are derived from internal data coupled with external sources when available. As used herein, a subscriber is a single household that receives the applicable network from its cable television operator, DTH satellite operator, telecommunication service provider, or other television provider, including those who receive our networks from pay-TV providers without charge pursuant to various pricing plans that include free periods and/or free carriage. The term cumulative subscribers refers to the sum of the total number of subscribers to each of our networks or content services. By way of example, two households that each receive five of our networks from their pay-TV provider represent two subscribers, but 10 cumulative subscribers. The term "viewer" is a single household that receives the signal from one of our networks using the appropriate receiving equipment without a subscription to a pay-TV provider. 6 Our brands consist of the following: Discovery Channel had approximately 87 million subscribers in the U.S. and 6 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2019 . Discovery Channel had approximately 277 million cumulative subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2019 including the Discovery HD Showcase brand. Discovery Channel is dedicated to creating the highest quality non-fiction content that informs and entertains its viewers about the world in all its wonder, diversity and amazement. The network offers a signature mix of high-end production values and vivid cinematography across genres including science and technology, exploration, adventure, history and in-depth, behind-the-scenes glimpses at the people, places and organizations that shape and share our world. In the U.S., Discovery Channel audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. Discovery Channel content includes Gold Rush , Naked and Afraid , Deadliest Catch , Fast N' Loud, Street Outlaws, Alaskan Bush People, Expedition Unknown , and Serengeti. Discovery Channel is also home to Shark Week , the network's long-running annual summer TV event. Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly men. HGTV had approximately 87 million subscribers in the U.S. and 6 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2019 . HGTV had approximately 130 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2019 . HGTV programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home-related topics, such as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. In the U.S., HGTV audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. Content on HGTV includes House Hunters , House Hunters International , Flip or Flop , The Property Brothers , Home Town , Good Bones , Restored by the Fords , Caribbean Life and Beachfront Bargain Hunt . Target viewers are female viewers with higher incomes in the 25 to 54 age range. 7 The most widely distributed ad-supported cable network in the U.S., Food Network had approximately 88 million subscribers in the U.S. and 5 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2019 and approximately 115 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2019 . Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested specifically in food-related entertainment including competition and travel, as well as food-related topics such as recipes, food preparation, entertaining and dining out. In the U.S., Food Network audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. Content on Food Network includes primetime series Beat Bobby Flay , Chopped , Diners, Drive-ins and Dives , The Great Food Truck Race, Guy s Grocery Games , Worst Cooks in America , and several seasonal baking championships, as well as daytime series Barefoot Contessa , Cook Like a Pro , Giada Entertains , Girl Meets Farm , Guy's Ranch Kitchen , The Kitchen , The Pioneer Woman, Trisha s Southern Kitchen and Valerie's Home Cooking . Target viewers are female viewers with higher incomes in the 25 to 54 age range. TLC had approximately 85 million subscribers in the U.S. and 6 million subscribers in Canada that are included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2019 . TLC content had approximately 449 million cumulative subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2019 including the Home Health, Real Time and Travel Living brands. Offering remarkable real-life stories without judgment, TLC shares everyday heart, humor, hope, and human connection with programming genres that include fascinating families, heartwarming transformations and life's milestone moments. In the U.S., TLC audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. Content on TLC includes the 90 Day Fianc franchise, Little People, Big World, Long Island Medium, and Outdaughtered. Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly women. 8 Animal Planet had approximately 84 million subscribers in the U.S. and 2 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2019 . Animal Planet had approximately 202 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2019 . Animal Planet, one of Discovery's great global brands, is dedicated to creating high quality content with global appeal delivering on its mission to keep the childhood joy and wonder of animals alive by bringing people up close in every way. In the U.S., Animal Planet audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. Content and talent on Animal Planet include Crikey! It's the Irwins , Amanda to the Rescue , Coyote Peterson , The Zoo , Pit Bulls Parolees, Dr. Jeff: Rocky Mountain Vet, and Puppy Bowl. Target viewers are adults aged 25-54. Investigation Discovery ("ID") had approximately 81 million subscribers in the U.S. and 1 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2019 . ID had approximately 102 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2019 . ID is a leading mystery and suspense network. From harrowing crimes and salacious scandals to the in-depth investigation and heart-breaking mysteries behind these "real people, real stories," ID challenges our everyday understanding of culture, society and the human condition. In the U.S., ID audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. ID content includes On the Case with Paula Zahn, Homicide Hunter: Lt. Joe Kenda, the American Murder Mystery franchise, and Deadline: Crime with Tamron Hall. Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly women. 9 MotorTrend had approximately 73 million subscribers in the U.S. and 1 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada included in the U.S. Networks segment as of December 31, 2019 . MotorTrend had approximately 131 million subscribers and viewers in international markets, where the brand is known as Turbo, as of December 31, 2019 . MotorTrend programming is engaging and informative, featuring the very best of the automotive world as told by top experts and personalities. In addition to series and specials exemplifying the very best of the automotive genre, the network broadcasts approximately 100 hours of live event coverage every year. In the U.S., MotorTrend audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. Content on MotorTrend includes Wheeler Dealers, Texas Metal , Roadkill , Iron Resurrection , and Barrett-Jackson Live . Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly men. Travel Channel had approximately 80 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2019 and 127 million subscribers and viewers in international markets as of December 31, 2019 . Travel Channel is for the bold, daring and spontaneous: adventurers who embrace the thrill of the unexpected, risk-takers who aren t afraid of a little mystery and anyone who loves a great story. In the U.S., Travel Channel audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access. Content on Travel Channel includes Mysteries at the Museum , Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern , Ghost Adventures, and Legendary Locations . Target viewers are adults aged 25-54. OWN had approximately 69 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2019 . OWN is the first and only network named for, and inspired by, a single iconic leader. OWN is a leading destination for premium scripted and unscripted programming from today's most innovative storytellers, with popular series such as Queen Sugar , Greenleaf , Iyanla: Fix My Life , and new dramas Ambitions and David Makes Man. Target viewers are African-American women aged 25-54 . U.S. NETWORKS U.S. Networks generated revenues of $7.1 billion and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA") of $4.1 billion during 2019 , which represented 64% and 88% of our total consolidated revenues and Adjusted OIBDA, respectively. Our U.S. Networks segment principally consists of national television networks. Our U.S. Networks segment owns and operates 18 national television networks, including fully distributed television networks such as Discovery Channel, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, and Animal Planet. In addition, we operate the following U.S. Networks: MotorTrend, Investigation Discovery, Travel Channel, Science Channel, Discovery Family, American Heroes Channel ("AHC"), Destination America, Discovery Life, DIY Network, Cooking Channel, Great American Country, Discovery en Espa ol, and Discovery Familia. 10 U.S. Networks generates revenues from fees charged to distributors of our television networks first run content, which includes cable, DTH satellite and telecommunication service providers, referred to as affiliate fees; fees from distributors for licensed content and content to equity method investee networks, referred to as other distribution revenue; fees from advertising sold on our television networks and digital products, which include our GO suite of TVE applications and DTC subscription products; fees from providing sales representation, network distribution services; and revenue from licensing our brands for consumer products. Our newest DTC product, Food Network Kitchen, provides multiple revenue streams including advertising and subscription fees. During 2019 , advertising, distribution and other revenues were 60% , 39% and 1% , respectively, of total net revenues for this segment. Typically, our television networks are aired pursuant to multi-year carriage agreements that provide for the level of carriage that our networks will receive and for annual graduated rate increases. Carriage of our networks depends on package inclusion, such as whether networks are on the more widely distributed, broader packages or lesser-distributed, specialized packages, also referred to as digital tiers. In the U.S., more than 95% of distribution revenues come from the top 10 distributors, with whom we have agreements that expire at various times from 2020 through 2024 . Distribution fees are typically collected ratably throughout the year. We provide authenticated U.S. TVE streaming products that are available to pay-TV subscribers and connect viewers through GO applications with live and on-demand access to award-winning shows and series from 18 U.S. networks in the Discovery portfolio: Discovery Channel, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, ID, Animal Planet, Travel Channel, MotorTrend (previously known as Velocity), Science Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel, Discovery Family Channel, AHC, Destination America, Discovery Life, Discovery en Espa ol, Discovery Familia, and the Oprah Winfrey Network ("OWN"), a consolidated subsidiary. During 2019 , we achieved incremental increases in U.S. digital platform consumption. We also provide certain networks to consumers as part of subscription-based over-the-top services provided by DirectTV Now, AT T Watch, Hulu, SlingTV, fuboTV, and YouTube TV. Advertising revenue is generated across multiple platforms and is based on the price received for available advertising spots and is dependent upon a number of factors including the number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our programming, our ability to sell commercial time over a portfolio of channels and leverage multiple platforms to connect advertisers to target audiences. In the U.S., advertising time is sold in the upfront and scatter markets. In the upfront market, advertisers buy advertising time for upcoming seasons and, by committing to purchase in advance, lock in the advertising rates they will pay for the upcoming year. Many upfront advertising commitments include options whereby advertisers may reduce or increase purchase commitments. In the scatter market, advertisers buy advertising closer to the time when the commercials will be run, which often results in a pricing premium compared to the upfront rates. The mix of upfront and scatter market advertising time sold is based upon the economic conditions at the time that upfront sales take place, impacting the sell-out levels management is willing or able to obtain. The demand in the scatter market then impacts the pricing achieved for our remaining advertising inventory. Scatter market pricing can vary from upfront pricing and can be volatile. 11 INTERNATIONAL NETWORKS International Networks generated revenues of $4.0 billion and Adjusted OIBDA of $1.1 billion during 2019 , which represented 36% and 23% of our total consolidated revenues and Adjusted OIBDA, respectively. Our International Networks segment principally consists of national and pan-regional television networks and brands that are delivered across multiple distribution platforms. This segment generates revenue from operations in virtually every pay-TV market in the world through an infrastructure that includes operational centers in London, Amsterdam, Warsaw, Milan, Singapore and Miami. Global brands include Discovery Channel, Food Network, HGTV, Animal Planet, TLC, ID, Science Channel and MotorTrend (previously known as Velocity and known as Turbo outside of the U.S.), along with brands exclusive to International Networks, including Eurosport, Discovery Kids, DMAX, Discovery Home Health, and TVN. TVN was acquired in March 2018, as part of our acquisition of Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Scripps Acquisition"). As of December 31, 2019 , International Networks operates unique distribution feeds in 50 languages with channel feeds customized according to language needs and advertising sales opportunities. International Networks also has FTA networks in Europe and the Middle East and broadcast networks in Poland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden, and continues to pursue further international expansion. FTA and broadcast networks generate a significant portion of International Networks' revenue. The penetration and growth rates of television services vary across countries and territories depending on numerous factors including the dominance of different television platforms in local markets. While pay-TV services have greater penetration in certain markets, FTA or broadcast television is dominant in others. International Networks has a large international distribution platform for its 72 networks, with as many as 23 networks distributed in any particular country or territory across 220 countries and territories around the world. International Networks pursues distribution across all television platforms based on the specific dynamics of local markets and relevant commercial agreements. With the growing demand of consumer content on digital and mobile devices, a suite of international DTC products has been made available to consumers. The Eurosport Player is a video streaming service offering premium and localized sports to fans in 52 markets in Europe. Dplay, our real-life entertainment streaming service, is now available in 10 markets including the U.K., Ireland, Spain, the Nordics, Japan and Italy. Dplay allows fans to access Discovery shows live and on-demand, anytime, anywhere. In Germany, we have partnered with ProSiebenSat.1 to laun