Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Reserved 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 49 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B. Other Information 91 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 91 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 92 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 92 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 Signatures 97 Table of Conten t s PART I SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbor protection under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements contained in this report other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, business strategy and plans, and objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, expect, seek, plan, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations, beliefs, and projections about future events, conditions, and trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, operating results, business strategy, short-term and long-term business operations and objectives, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control, including those arising from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic ( COVID-19 pandemic ), as well as those described in the Risk Factors section, which we encourage you to read carefully. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and potential changes in circumstances, the future events, conditions, and trends discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you should not rely upon any forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activities, performance, or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these statements to actual results or revised expectations, except as required by applicable law. If we do update any forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. As used in this report, the terms Workday, registrant, we, us, and our mean Workday, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2022, for example, refer to the year ended January 31, 2022 . ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Workday is a leading provider of enterprise cloud applications for finance and human resources, helping customers adapt and thrive in a changing world. Workday provides more than 9,500 organizations with software-as-a-service solutions to help solve some of today s most complex business challenges, including supporting and empowering their workforce, managing their finances and spend in an ever-changing environment, and planning for the unexpected. Our purpose is to inspire a brighter work day for all. We strive to make the world of work and business better, and hope to empower customers to do the same through an innovative suite of solutions adopted by thousands of organizations around the world and across industries from medium-sized businesses to more than 50% of the Fortune 500. Central to our purpose is a set of core values with our employees as number one followed by customer service, innovation, integrity, fun, and profitability. We believe that having happy employees leads to happy customers, and we are committed to helping our customers drive their digital transformations in this increasingly dynamic business environment. As organizations adapt to changing conditions, we believe the need for an intuitive, scalable, and secure platform that ties finance, people, suppliers, and plans together in one version of truth is more important than ever. Workday provides organizations with a unified system that can help them plan, execute, analyze, and extend to other applications and environments, thereby helping them continuously adapt how they manage their business and operations. To support this, Workday delivers weekly product updates in addition to major feature releases twice a year. Through this model, Workday customers are able to stay current as one Workday community all on the same version of software that features a unified data and security model and rich user experience. We sell our solutions worldwide primarily through direct sales. We also offer professional services, both directly and through our Workday Services Partners, to help customers deploy our solutions and continually adopt new capabilities. 1 Table of Conten t s To grow our unified suite of Workday applications, we primarily invest in research and development, but we also selectively acquire companies that are consistent with our design principles, existing product set, corporate strategy, and company culture. For example, in fiscal 2022, we acquired Peakon ApS ( Peakon ), a continuous listening platform that captures real-time employee sentiment; Zimit, a configure, price, quote ( CPQ ) solution built for services industries; and VNDLY, a cloud-based external workforce and vendor management technology; and in fiscal 2020, we acquired Scout RFP ( Scout ), a strategic sourcing company. Our Capabilities Workday s suite of enterprise cloud applications addresses the evolving needs of the chief financial officer ( CFO ), chief human resources officer ( CHRO ), and chief information officer ( CIO ) across various industries. Workday applications for Financial Management, Spend Management, Human Capital Management ( HCM ), Planning, and Analytics and Benchmarking can also be extended to other applications and environments through the Workday Cloud Platform. Financial Management: Solutions for the Office of the CFO In the changing world of finance, Workday helps finance leaders accelerate their journeys towards becoming a truly digital finance operation by giving them the tools they need to manage the strategic direction of their organizations while also supporting growth, profitability, and compliance and regulatory requirements. Workday s suite of financial management applications helps enable CFOs to maintain accounting information in the general ledger; manage core financial processes such as payables and receivables; identify real-time financial, operational, and management insights; improve financial consolidation; reduce time-to-close; promote internal control and auditability; and achieve consistency across global finance operations. Spend Management: Solutions for the Office of the CFO As businesses adapt to changing conditions, Workday provides procurement professionals with tools to support them through the source-to-contract process, such as a user experience designed for ease and collaboration. Workday offers a set of cloud spend management solutions that help organizations streamline supplier selection and contracts, manage indirect spend, and build and execute sourcing events, such as requests for proposals. Human Capital Management: Solutions for the Office of the CHRO In the changing world of human resources ( HR ), Workday helps organizations identify and respond to rapidly changing conditions, whether they stem from shifting talent needs or a renewed focus on belonging and diversity. Workday s suite of HCM applications allows organizations to manage the entire employee lifecycle from recruitment to retirement enabling HR teams to hire, onboard, pay, develop and reskill, and provide meaningful employee experiences that are personalized and helpful, based on listening to the diverse needs of today s workforce. Planning: Solutions for the Offices of the CFO and CHRO In today s dynamic business environment, businesses are continuously planning to model various scenarios and prepare to quickly respond to change. Workday provides an active planning process that can model across finance, workforce, sales, and operational data, helping organizations make more informed decisions and respond quickly to changing situations. When combined with Workday s financial management and HCM solutions, organizations are able to leverage real-time transactional data to dynamically adjust and recalibrate their plans. Analytics and Benchmarking and Workday Cloud Platform: Solutions for the Offices of the CIO, CFO, and CHRO In the changing world of work, Workday helps leaders make sense of the vast amount of data they collect enterprise-wide. For example, information technology ( IT ) leaders are navigating the complexities of supporting employees in new environments, which requires them to deploy an adaptable, secure architecture to help ensure global continuity and productivity while remaining agile. Workday provides applications for analytics and reporting, including augmented analytics to surface insights to the line of business in simple-to-understand stories, machine learning to drive efficiency and automation, and benchmarks to compare performance against other organizations. In addition, Workday enables the development of extension applications and integration tooling that can accommodate our customers unique ways of doing business. 2 Table of Conten t s Industries: Solutions for the Offices of the CIO, CFO, and CHRO Workday offers businesses flexible solutions to help them adapt to their industry-specific needs and respond to change. Workday s applications serve industries such as healthcare, higher education, and professional services. For example, Workday provides supply chain and inventory solutions to healthcare organizations, allowing them to purchase, stock, track, and replenish their inventory to help support patient care. In addition, higher education institutions can deploy our solution to manage the e nd-to-end student and faculty lifecycle . Moreover, with our solution, professional services organizations can optimize and manage their client-facing projects. Product Development At Workday, innovation is a core value. Our culture encourages out-of-the-box thinking and creativity, which enables us to create applications designed to change the way people work. We invest a significant percentage of our resources in product development and are committed to rapidly building and/or acquiring new applications and solutions. Our product development organization is responsible for product design, development, testing, and certification. We focus our efforts on developing new applications and core technologies, as well as further enhancing the usability, functionality, reliability, security, performance, and flexibility of existing applications. Human Capital Workday was founded with the idea of putting people at the center of enterprise software, which is why employees are our number one core value. Our core values continue to serve as our guide as we navigate recent events, such as the global pandemic and the social justice movement. As of January 31, 2022, our global workforce consisted of approximately 15,200 employees in 32 countries. We consider our relations with our employees to be very good. Our Chief People Officer, in partnership with our Chief Diversity Officer, is responsible for developing and executing Workday s human capital strategy, including programs focused on total rewards; belonging and diversity; and employee development, engagement, and wellbeing. Our Chief People Officer and Co-CEOs regularly update our Board of Directors and Compensation Committee on human capital matters and seek their input on subjects such as succession planning, executive compensation, and our company-wide equity programs. Total Rewards Our compensation philosophy is designed to establish and maintain a fair and flexible compensation program that attracts and rewards talented individuals who possess the skills necessary to support our near-term objectives, create long-term value for our stockholders, grow our business, and assist in the achievement of our strategic goals. We believe that providing employees with competitive pay, ownership in the company, and a wide range of benefits is fundamental to employees feeling valued, motivated, and recognized for their contributions. Equity ownership is a key element of our compensation program, allowing employees to share in Workday s successes and aligning the interests of our employees with our stockholders. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we have extended our key employee cash bonus program to all employees not covered under an existing sales or customer experience incentive plan. Additionally, our total rewards package includes an employee stock purchase plan, healthcare and retirement benefits, paid time off, family leave, and other wellness programs. It also offers specialized benefits such as support for fertility options and new parents, as well as reimbursement of adoption costs. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, we felt that it was important for employees to have a safe, convenient way to access healthcare and have introduced a global virtual healthcare network and onsite healthcare resources, including COVID-19 vaccine and testing drive-thru clinics and flu shot clinics, in addition to expanded healthcare benefits. Our Commitment to Pay Parity We believe that all employees deserve to be paid fairly and equitably and be afforded an equal chance to succeed. We have a market-based pay structure that compares our roles to those of our peers in each region. This process helps ensure we pay according to the market value of the jobs we offer. We also have processes in place to make pay decisions based on internally consistent and fair criteria. Each year, we conduct a company-wide pay equity analysis to help ensure pay equity between men and women as well as a US-based analysis with respect to people of different races. If we identify differences in pay, we research those differences and, if appropriate, take action (including making adjustments to employees pay when appropriate). 3 Table of Conten t s Belonging and Diversity We strive to be a workplace where all employees are valued for their unique perspectives and where we all collectively contribute to Workday s success and innovation. Belonging and Diversity ( B D ) plays an integral part in that as we aim to provide our employees with programs and resources that strengthen our culture and empower our communities. In support of our efforts, we have created our own unique approach to diversity called VIBE, which stands for Value Inclusion, Belonging, and Equity for all. To further support equity in our workplace and in our communities, we have established four guiding principles: hiring and developing diverse talent; cultivating a culture of belonging; strengthening our communities; and building inclusive products and technology. We have made solid progress towards our ongoing company commitments that map to these global guiding principles. To track progress and plan for the future, we use internally-developed products to bring diversity- and inclusion-related data into one centralized location and set our B D strategy. Through these products, we can assess, measure, benchmark, and manage diversity and inclusion as well as empower our leaders to create B D plans and measure performance and outcomes across areas such as hiring, development, and employee experience. Looking at our diversity data, we continue to make strides in our representation. As of January 31, 2022, women represented 41.2% of our global employees, and underrepresented minorities (defined as those who identify as Alaskan native, American Indian, Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian, Other Pacific Islander, and/or two or more races) represent 13.7% of our U.S. employees. Learning and Development Our employees tell us they are most engaged when they are continuously being exposed to new things, empowered to build new skills, and able to make an impact. We offer a number of educational resources, development opportunities, and a support community to guide employees throughout their Workday careers, which we refer to as journeys. These begin right from the moment employees start at Workday, with Learning at Workday, journeys designed to help new employees onboard and get acquainted with our culture, business, and technology. These are complimented by Career Building at Workday, journeys designed to deepen expertise, grow capabilities, and make meaningful connections; Leading at Workday, journeys that help employees understand our leadership identity and prepare them to take on increasing leadership responsibilities; and The VIBE Way at Workday, journeys designed to equip and empower all employees with the tools and resources to incorporate VIBE into everything we do - from the language we use every day, to how we approach our work and each other, to the way we recruit and hire diverse talent at Workday. Communication and Engagement Our culture and how we treat people are paramount at Workday, and we believe that being transparent and facilitating information sharing are key to our success. Workday leverages multiple communication channels to engage and inform employees, including company meetings, town halls, internal websites, and social collaboration tools. We also use Workday Peakon Employee Voice to collect feedback in real time from our employees and turn that feedback into dialog and action. We receive data points from these surveys that help us identify actions to take to improve our company and our culture. Buoyed by the opportunities offered by our own technology, our talent strategy philosophy puts employees at the center of their own career and performance journey. A fundamental tenet of this approach is the belief that we should provide employees with the tools and framework to enable their careers, putting them in the driver s seat. Our talent philosophy is centered on five factors that fuel employee success: enable contribution, grow capabilities, empower career, deepen connections, and align compensation and recognition. Our talent and performance dashboard includes a summary of an employee s five factors and provides a snapshot view of performance-related tasks, with a visual summary of goals, feedback, and growth opportunities. Employees can take action to update their contributions, capabilities, career, and connections using the quick links provided in the dashboard. Health, Safety, and Wellbeing At Workday, we take a holistic approach to our employees wellbeing and have created wellbeing programs that focus on four core pillars: happiness, health, movement, and nutrition. These programs go beyond traditional medical benefits and wellness offerings and allow employees to focus on their chosen wellness goals as well as their mental health. 4 Table of Conten t s Specific to the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to take precautions to help support the health and safety of the Workday community, including our employees. As part of our support in fiscal 2022, we announced that the majority of employees will not be required to return to their Workday office before April 2022, introduced flexible work options, enhanced the healthcare resources provided to our employees, and offered new employees a $500 equipment stipend to enable them to have a comfortable work-from-home environment. To help keep health and mental wellness top of mind, we offer a series of programs and communications focused on mental health. These included tools and resources related to sleep, healthy eating, and mindfulness, as well as enhancements to our Employee Assistance Program to, among other things, facilitate access to mental health services. Our Global Workplace Safety team supports the traditional corporate areas of employee health and safety and physical security for Workday on a global scale. From the workplace to work-related travel, we strive to keep our employees safe with programs including safety awareness training, emergency response protocols, and our ergonomics and life safety team programs. Giving and Doing We believe that talent is everywhere, but opportunity is not. In support of our efforts to give back to the communities where we live and work, our employees donate time and expertise as mentors and volunteers to help close the skills gap. We also invest in leading workforce development organizations and provide direct training and employment opportunities for candidates facing barriers to employment through our Opportunity Onramps programs. On top of our strategic, company-led social impact and employee volunteerism efforts, we also believe that giving back is even more rewarding when people get to make an impact through their favorite causes. We encourage and support employee giving and volunteering through programs such as our charitable donation matching gift program, our paid time off benefit for employees to volunteer and give back to their communities, and our team volunteer experience, where employee teams of five or more can volunteer with a charity partner of their choice and receive a $5,000 grant. Customers We primarily sell to medium-sized and large, global organizations that span numerous industry categories, including professional and business services, financial services, healthcare, education, government, technology, media, retail, and hospitality. We have built a company culture centered around customer success and satisfaction. As part of their subscription, customers are provided support services and tools to enhance their experience with Workday applications. This includes 24/7 support; training; a Customer Success Management group to assist customers in production; and Workday Community, an online portal where customers can collaborate and share knowledge and best practices. Additionally, we offer extensive customer training opportunities and a professional services ecosystem of experienced Workday consultants and system integrators to help customers not only achieve a timely adoption of Workday but continue to get value out of our applications over the life of their subscription. Sales and Marketing We sell our subscription contracts and related services globally, primarily through our direct sales organization, which consists of field sales and field sales support personnel. The Workday Field Sales team is aligned by geography, industry, and/or prospect size. We generate customer leads, accelerate sales opportunities, and build brand awareness through our marketing programs and strategic relationships. Our marketing programs target senior business leaders, including CFOs, CHROs, and CIOs. As a core part of our sales and marketing strategy, we have developed a global ecosystem of partners to both broaden and complement our application offerings and to provide services that are outside of our area of focus. These relationships include software and technology partners, consulting and deployment service providers, business process outsourcing partners, and software partners of Workday Ventures, our strategic investment arm, who all help enable Workday to address the challenges our customers face while focusing on executing against our strategy. Seasonality We have experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services. Historically, we have signed a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year due to large enterprise account buying patterns. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. 5 Table of Conten t s Competition The overall market for enterprise application software is rapidly evolving, highly competitive, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products. We currently compete with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, such as Oracle Corporation ( Oracle ) and SAP SE ( SAP ). We also face competition from other enterprise software vendors, from regional competitors that only operate in certain geographic markets, and from vendors of specific applications that address only one or a portion of our applications, some of which offer cloud-based solutions. These vendors include UKG Inc. (formerly The Ultimate Software Group, Inc.); Automatic Data Processing, Inc.; Infor, Inc.; Ceridian HCM Holding Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Anaplan, Inc.; and Coupa Software Inc. In addition, other cloud companies that provide services in different markets may develop applications or acquire companies that operate in our target markets, and some potential customers may elect to develop their own internal applications. However, the domain and industry expertise that is required for a successful solution in the areas of financial management, HCM, and analytics may inhibit new entrants that are unable to invest the necessary capital to accurately address global requirements and regulations. We expect continued consolidation in our industry that could lead to significantly increased competition. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets include: level of customer satisfaction and quality of customer references; speed to deploy and ease of use; breadth and depth of application functionality; total cost of ownership; brand awareness and reputation; adaptive technology platform; capability for configuration, integration, security, scalability, and reliability of applications; operational excellence to ensure system availability, scalability, and performance; ability to innovate and rapidly respond to customer needs; domain and industry expertise in applicable laws and regulations; size of customer base and level of user adoption; customer confidence in financial stability and future viability; and ability to integrate with legacy enterprise infrastructure and third-party applications. We believe that we compete favorably based on these factors. Our ability to remain competitive will largely depend on our ongoing performance in product development and customer support. For more information regarding the competitive risks we face, see Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We require our employees, contractors, consultants, suppliers, and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements, and we control access to software, documentation, and other proprietary information. Although we rely on intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections and controls to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel; creation of new products, features and functionality; and frequent enhancements to our applications are more essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position. Governmental Regulation As a public company with global operations, we are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, which may differ among jurisdictions, include, among others, those related to financial and other disclosures, accounting standards, privacy and data protection, intellectual property, corporate governance, tax, government contracting, trade, antitrust, employment, immigration and travel, import/export, and anti-corruption. There is no assurance that existing or future laws and regulations applicable to our operations, products, and services will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Presently, costs and accruals incurred to comply with these governmental regulations are not material to our financial condition or operating results. 6 Table of Conten t s Privacy and Data Protection Laws Our customers can use our appli