Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 39 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 79 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 79 Item 9B. Other Information 79 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 80 Item 11. Executive Compensation 80 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 80 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 84 Table of Contents PART I SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbor protection under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements contained in this report other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, our business strategy and plans, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, expect, seek, plan, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, operating results, business strategy, short-term and long-term business operations and objectives, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in the Risk Factors section, which we encourage you to read carefully. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activities, performance, or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these statements to actual results or revised expectations. As used in this report, the terms Workday, registrant, we, us, and our mean Workday, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2020, for example, refer to the year ended January 31, 2020 . ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Workday is a leading provider of enterprise cloud applications for finance and human resources. Founded in 2005, Workday delivers financial management, human capital management, planning, and analytics applications designed for the world s largest companies, educational institutions, and government agencies. Organizations ranging from medium-sized businesses to Fortune 50 enterprises have selected Workday. We achieved this leadership position through our innovative and adaptable technology, our core values, and our commitment to customer satisfaction. Workday is leading the way in helping organizations better manage their financial and human capital resources with one system that helps enable them to plan, execute, analyze, and extend all powered by machine learning. Organizations today operate in environments that are highly complex and changing at an increasingly rapid rate. Managers and employees must synthesize vast amounts of information and react quickly to changes in global business and regulatory environments. To be successful, they need adaptable software that enables informed decision making about the enterprise-wide allocation of their current and future people and financial resources. Additionally, managers and employees expect to interact with enterprise systems in an open, intuitive, and collaborative way, including real-time access through a wide range of mobile and computing devices. Workday is delivered in the cloud, enabling organizations to embrace change in their operating environments. Our rapid innovation cycles provide customers with new product functionality, support for regulatory requirement updates, increased performance, and an enhanced user experience, all delivered via biannual feature releases in addition to weekly updates that require minimal downtime. With this product delivery model, Workday customers benefit from the most current technologies without the burden of costly, time-consuming upgrades typically associated with traditional on-premise software. Through every update and feature release, all Workday customers remain on the same version of the software, with access to one data model, one security model, one user experience, and one Workday community. 1 Table of Contents Our innovative technology leverages the most recent advances in cloud computing and data management, allowing us to deliver applications that are highly functional, flexible, secure, and fast. This approach substantially reduces the need for our customers to buy and support a broad range of IT infrastructure, significantly reducing costs and minimizing complexity. Key features of our technology infrastructure include: a multi-tenant architecture, in which customers are on the same version of our software, enabling innovations to be deployed quickly; objects that represent real-world entities, such as employees, benefits, budgets, charts of accounts, and organizations, combining business logic and data in one place and creating actionable analytics that are part of our core transactional system of record; in-memory data management, allowing the rapid and efficient delivery of embedded business intelligence; embedded machine learning, providing better predictions so customers can make more informed financial and workforce decisions; and open, standards-based web-services application programming interfaces and pre-built packaged integrations and connectors. Our Products Workday Financial Management Workday Financial Management is a comprehensive, unified set of applications built on a single global core with a full range of financial capabilities, relevant analytics and metrics, and fully auditable process management built to help streamline financial processes for global organizations. Workday Financial Management provides core finance functions, including: general ledger, accounting, accounts payable, accounts receivable, cash management, asset management, revenue management, and grants management; and built-in financial, operational, and management reporting and analysis in real time without the use of complex and expensive bolt-on business intelligence systems. Workday Spend Management Workday Expenses delivers user-friendly technology to capture, monitor, and control employee expenses on any device Scout Sourcing from Scout RFP ( Scout ), acquired by Workday in December 2019, helps organizations source faster and improve spend outcomes from project intake to contract and supplier management Workday Procurement provides a single solution to manage the procure-to-pay process for both goods and services spend Workday Inventory provides an end-to-end solution for all aspects of the materials management process that helps organizations manage their internal supply chain. Workday Accounting Center Workday Accounting Center, which we currently expect to be available in fiscal 2021, will provide a single point of control and maintenance for accounting rules across an organization, automating accounting and enriching financial data for reporting and analysis by transforming business activity from various data sources, such as loan origination systems or insurance claims systems, into journal entries. Workday Human Capital Management Workday Human Capital Management ( HCM ) enables organizations to attract, manage, develop, and retain their global workforce. Workday HCM includes: Global human resources management, including workforce lifecycle management, organization management, compensation, absence, and employee benefits administration; Global talent management including goal management, performance management, succession planning, and career and development planning; and Skills cloud, a machine-learning-powered universal skills language to help source, utilize, develop, and retain talent with the necessary skills to meet evolving business needs. 2 Table of Contents Workday Talent Management Workday Recruiting helps hiring managers, the interview team, and recruiters acquire talent faster, while supporting the candidate experience Workday Learning combines peer-generated content, interactive media, and learning management in a single application, delivering a unified learning experience across the workforce Workday People Experience applications, which we currently expect to be available in fiscal 2021, will use machine learning to curate unique experiences by user, such as guidance in career development, answers to human resources and payroll questions, and customized content Workday Credentials, which we currently expect to be available in fiscal 2021, will allow organizations to issue verified credentials such as employment history, education, skills, and compensation information to individuals. Individuals will be able to manage and share their credentials via a mobile app Workday Talent Optimization, which we currently expect to be available in fiscal 2021, will provide innovative solutions to help organizations grow and develop talent, including a talent marketplace to connect employees to internal opportunities matched to their skills and interests, a career hub to help employees grow their careers with machine learning-driven career guidance and learning recommendations, and employee experience analytics to provide leaders with on-demand access to employee engagement insights. Workday Workforce Management Workday Time Tracking, our time and attendance management application, is designed to automate workforce management processes, reducing costs and compliance risks Workday Payroll addresses a full spectrum of enterprise payroll needs with control, accuracy, and flexibility. We provide payroll solutions in the U.S., Canada, the UK, and France as well as a global payroll cloud partner program to support additional customer needs. Adaptive Insights Business Planning Cloud Adaptive Insights Business Planning Cloud helps organizations better plan, execute, and analyze across the enterprise. It empowers finance, human resources, and business units with flexible modeling capabilities that enable collaborative, company-wide business planning, including financial, workforce and sales planning. Workday Analytics Offerings Workday Prism Analytics enables customers to bring together data from Workday or any other source and blend, transform, and prepare it for analysis, while providing finance and human resources teams with secure, self-service access to the data they need. Workday People Analytics uses augmented analytics to surface key insights on human resources areas, such as hiring, organizational composition, and diversity and inclusion, and narrate the findings in a natural language called a story. This reduces time spent on manual data exploration, while empowering decision-makers to take action on critical trends. Workday Data-as-a-Service ( DaaS ) is a cloud service that provides valuable data to customers to enable more informed decision making. Workday Benchmarking is a Workday DaaS offering that provides key metrics to customers seeking a better understanding of their company s relative performance in comparison to peers to help achieve optimal performance in their respective markets. Workday Industry Solutions Workday Student is a student and faculty information system to help colleges and universities manage the student lifecycle, including admissions and recruiting, financial aid, student records, and curriculum management. The Workday Student application suite includes: Academic Foundation, Student Recruiting, Student Admissions, Curriculum Management, Student Records, Academic Advising, Financial Aid, Student Financials, and Student Recruiting. Workday Professional Services Automation supports the complete billable projects lifecycle, including project and resource management, time and expense tracking, project billing, revenue recognition, financial reporting, and analytics within a single solution. Workday Healthcare combines procurement, inventory, financials, planning, and analytics in a single cloud-based system. This solution helps healthcare providers reduce supply chain costs, improve inventory control, and automate purchasing and tracking of items and services needed to support patient care. 3 Table of Contents Workday Cloud Platform Workday Cloud Platform is designed to allow customers to extend Workday's core applications, enabling customers to address unique business or industry use cases. The platform includes tools for building, deploying and serving extension applications from within the Workday cloud. Customers Our diverse customer base includes medium-sized and large, global companies, as well as smaller organizations that primarily use our planning product. Our customers span numerous industry categories, including technology, financial services, business and professional services, healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing, retail and hospitality, education, government, and non-profit. No individual customer represented more than 10% of our revenues during fiscal 2020. We have built a company culture centered around customer success and satisfaction. As part of this, we have designed programs to provide customers with service and education options to enhance their experience with our applications. These options include 24/7 support; training; a professional services ecosystem of trained Workday consulting teams and system integrators; a Customer Success Management group to assist customers in production; and Workday Community, an online portal where customers can collaborate and share knowledge and best practices. Backlog Backlog, which is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations, represents our total contractual commitments for which subscription services will be performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into revenue as contractual commitments are fulfilled. For further information, see Note 15, Unearned Revenue and Performance Obligations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employees As of January 31, 2020, we had approximately 12,200 employees. We also engage contractors and consultants. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be very good. Sales and Marketing We sell Workday subscription services primarily through our direct sales organization, which is comprised of field sales and field sales support personnel. The Workday Field Sales team is aligned by geography, industry, and/or prospect size. We generate customer leads, accelerate sales opportunities, and build brand awareness through our marketing programs and strategic relationships. Our marketing programs target senior business leaders, including finance, procurement, human resources, and IT executives. As a core part of our strategy, we have developed an ecosystem of partners to both broaden and complement our application offerings and to provide services that are outside of our focus. These relationships include software and technology partners, consulting and deployment service providers, Workday Ventures partners, and business process outsourcing partners, who help enable Workday to address challenges our customers face while focusing on executing against our strategy. Product Development Our ability to compete depends in large part on our continuous commitment to product development and our ability to rapidly introduce and acquire new products, technologies, features, and functionality. Our product development organization is responsible for product design, development, testing, and certification. We focus our efforts on developing new products and core technologies as well as further enhancing the usability, functionality, reliability, security, performance, and flexibility of existing products. Competition The overall market for enterprise application software is rapidly evolving, highly competitive, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products. We currently compete with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, such as Oracle Corporation ( Oracle ) and SAP SE ( SAP ). We also face competition from other enterprise software vendors, from regional competitors that only operate in certain geographic markets, and from vendors of specific applications that address only one or a portion of our applications, some of which offer cloud-based solutions. These vendors include The Ultimate Software Group, Inc.; Automatic Data Processing, Inc.; Infor, Inc.; Ceridian HCM Holding Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Anaplan, Inc.; and Coupa Software Inc. 4 Table of Contents In addition, other cloud companies that provide services in different markets may develop applications or acquire companies that operate in our target markets, and some potential customers may elect to develop their own internal applications. However, the domain expertise that is required for a successful solution in the areas of financial management, HCM, and analytics may inhibit new entrants that are unable to invest the necessary capital to accurately reflect global requirements and regulations. We expect continued consolidation in our industry that could lead to significantly increased competition. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets include: level of customer satisfaction and quality of customer references; speed to deploy and ease of use; breadth and depth of application functionality; total cost of ownership; brand awareness and reputation; adaptive technology platform; capability for configuration, integration, security, scalability, and reliability of applications; operational excellence to ensure system availability, scalability, and performance; ability to innovate and rapidly respond to customer needs; domain expertise on financial, human resources, and payroll regulations; size of customer base and level of user adoption; customer confidence in financial stability and future viability; and ability to integrate with legacy enterprise infrastructures and third-party applications. We believe that we compete favorably based on these factors. Our ability to remain competitive will largely depend on our ongoing performance in product development and customer support. For more information regarding the competitive risks we face, see the information under Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We require our employees, contractors, consultants, suppliers, and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements, and we control access to software, documentation, and other proprietary information. Although we rely on intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections and controls to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel; creation of new products, features and functionality; and frequent enhancements to our applications are more essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position. Corporate Information We were incorporated in March 2005 in Nevada, and in June 2012 we reincorporated in Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 6110 Stoneridge Mall Road, Pleasanton, California 94588, and our telephone number is (877) WORKDAY. Our website address is www.workday.com. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this report. Workday, the Workday logo, our Built for the future tagline, and other trademarks of ours are our registered intellectual property in the United States and elsewhere. Other trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. Available Information We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14, and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act ). The public may obtain these filings from the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) s website at http://www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding Workday and other companies that file materials with the SEC electronically. Copies of Workday s reports on Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and Forms 8-K, may be obtained, free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC, electronically through our website, http://www.workday.com/company/investor_relations/sec_filings.php. Workday uses its blogs.workday.com website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. 5 Table of Contents