Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 27 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. [Reserved] 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 110 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 110 Item 9B. Other Information 111 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 111 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 112 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 112 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 112 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 113 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117 Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters, and references to financial information are on a consolidated basis. As used herein, the terms we, us, our, the Company, WDC and Western Digital refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless we state, or the context indicates, otherwise. WDC, a Delaware corporation, is the parent company of our data storage business. Our principal executive offices are located at 5601 Great Oaks Parkway, San Jose, California 95119. Our telephone number is (408) 717-6000. Western Digital, the Western Digital logo, SanDisk and WD are registered trademarks or trademarks of Western Digital or its affiliates in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks, registered trademarks and/or service marks, indicated or otherwise, are the property of their respective owners. 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any statements that do not relate to historical or current facts or matters are forward-looking statements. You can identify some of the forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, would, project, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast, and the like, or the use of future tense. Statements concerning current conditions may also be forward-looking if they imply a continuation of current conditions. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: our expectations regarding our plan to separate our HDD and Flash business units; our product plans and business strategies; consumer trends and market conditions; expectations regarding demand trends, market opportunities and our market position; expectations regarding our future financial performance; the impact of the global macroeconomic environment; expectations related to our agreed sale of a portion of our equity interest in SanDisk Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.; expectations related to our joint ventures and partnerships including relating to our Flash Ventures joint venture with Kioxia Corporation ( Kioxia ); expectations regarding our product development and technology plans; expectations regarding capital expenditure plans and investments; expectations regarding our tax resolutions, effective tax rate and our unrecognized tax benefits; expectations regarding the merits of our position and our plans with respect to certain litigation matters; and our beliefs regarding our capital allocation plans and the sufficiency of our available liquidity to meet our working capital, debt and capital expenditure needs. These forward-looking statements are based on management s current expectations, represent the most current information available to the Company as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results or performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties are described in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect the outcome of our forward-looking statements and our business and operating results, including those made in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any of those made in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new information or events after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. WEBSITE REFERENCES In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we make references to our website at www.westerndigital.com . References to our website through this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only and the content on our website does not constitute a part of, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Western Digital is a leading developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage devices and solutions based on both hard disk drive and NAND flash technologies. With a differentiated innovation engine driving advancements in storage and semiconductor technologies, our broad and ever-expanding portfolio delivers powerful hard disk drives ( HDD ) and flash-based products ( Flash ) storage solutions for everyone from students, gamers and home offices, to the largest enterprises and public clouds to capture, preserve, access and transform an ever-increasing diversity of data. Our broad portfolio of technology and products addresses multiple end markets: Cloud, Client and Consumer. Cloud is comprised primarily of products for public or private cloud environments and end customers. Through the Client end market, we provide our original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ) and channel customers a broad array of high-performance hard drive and flash solutions across personal computer, mobile, gaming, automotive, virtual reality headsets, at-home entertainment, and industrial spaces. The Consumer end market is highlighted by our broad range of retail and other end-user products, which capitalize on the strength of our product brand recognition and vast points of presence around the world. On October 30, 2023, we announced that our Board of Directors had completed its strategic review of our business and, after evaluating a comprehensive range of alternatives, authorized us to pursue a plan to separate our HDD and Flash business units to create two independent, public companies. We believe the separation will better position each business unit to execute innovative technology and product development, capitalize on unique growth opportunities, extend respective leadership positions and operate more efficiently with distinct capital structures. The completion of the planned separation is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by our Board of Directors. Significant effort is underway and extensive progress has been made with respect to the separation as we continue to drive towards completing the work required to separate the businesses by the end of calendar year 2024. Founded in 1970 in Santa Ana, California, Western Digital is now a Standard Poor s 500 ( S P 500 ) company headquartered in San Jose, California. We have valuable patent portfolios containing approximately 13,000 active patents , covering groundbreaking memory technologies and beyond. We have extensive customer, partner and channel relationships across a number of end markets and geography and have a rich heritage of innovation and operational excellence, a wide range of intellectual property ( IP ) assets, broad research and development ( R D ) capabilities and large-scale, efficient manufacturing supply chains. The strong growth in the amount, value and use of data continues, creating a global need for larger, faster and more capable storage solutions. We are a customer-focused organization that has developed deep relationships with industry leaders to continue to deliver innovative solutions to help users capture, store and transform data across a boundless range of applications. With much of the world s data stored on Western Digital products, our innovation powers the global technology ecosystem from consumer devices to the edge, to the heart of the cloud. We enable cloud, Internet and social media infrastructure players to build more powerful, cost-effective and efficient data centers. We help OEMs address storage opportunities and solutions to capture and transform data in a myriad of devices and edge technologies. We have also built strong consumer brands with tools to manage vast libraries of personal content and to push the limits of what is possible for storage. At Western Digital, we continue to transform ourselves to address the growth in data by providing what we believe to be the broadest range of storage technologies in the industry with a comprehensive product portfolio and global reach. Industry We operate in the data storage industry. The ability to access, store and share data from anywhere on any device is increasingly important to our customers and end users. From the intelligent edge to the cloud, data storage is a fundamental component underpinning the global technology architecture. Our strengths in innovation and cost leadership, diversified product portfolio and broad routes to market provide a foundation upon which we are solidifying our position as an essential building block of the digital economy. We believe there is tremendous market opportunity flowing from the rapid global adoption of the technology architecture built with cloud infrastructure tied to intelligent endpoints all connected by high-performance networks. 4 Table of Contents The increase in computing complexity and advancements in artificial intelligence ( AI ), along with growth in cloud computing applications, connected mobile devices and Internet-connected products and edge devices is driving unabated growth in the volume of digital content to be stored and used. This growth has led to the creation of new form factors for data storage. The storage industry is increasingly utilizing tiered architectures with solid state drives ( SSD ), HDD and other non-volatile memory-based storage to address an expanding set of uses and applications. We believe our expertise and innovation across both HDD and Flash technologies enable us to bring powerful solutions to a broad range of applications. We continuously monitor the full array of storage technologies, including reviewing these technologies with our customers, to ensure we are appropriately resourced to meet our customers storage needs. Technology Hard Disk Drives. HDD products provide non-volatile data storage by recording magnetic information on a rotating disk. We develop and manufacture substantially all of the recording heads and magnetic media used in our HDD products. We have led the industry in innovation to drive increased areal density and high-performance attributes. Our improvements in HDD capacity, which lower product costs over time, have been enabled largely through advancements in magnetic recording head and media technologies. Our multi-year product roadmap for high-capacity HDD, which combines ePMR, OptiNAND, UltraSMR and triple stage actuators to deliver a cutting-edge portfolio of drives, in commercial volumes, at a wide variety of capacity points, puts Western Digital in a strong position to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the large and growing storage markets. We invest considerable resources in R D, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment for recording head and media technology, as well as other aspects of the magnetic recording system such as HDD mechanics, controller and firmware technology, in order to secure our competitive position and cost structure. Our products generally leverage a common platform for various products within product families, and in some cases across product families, resulting in the commonality of components which reduces our exposure to changes in demand, facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts onto successive product models. Flash Technologies . Flash-based products provide non-volatile data storage based on flash technology. We develop and manufacture solid state storage products for a variety of applications including enterprise or cloud, client, automotive, mobile devices and removable memory devices. Over time, we have successfully developed and commercialized successive generations of multi-dimensional flash technology with increased numbers of storage bits per cell in an increasingly smaller form factor, further driving cost reductions. We devote significant R D resources to the development of highly reliable, high-performance, cost-effective flash-based technology and are continually pursuing developments in next-generation flash-based technology capacities. We are leveraging our expertise, resources and strategic investments in non-volatile memories to explore a wide spectrum of persistent memory and storage class memory technologies. We have also initiated, defined and developed standards to meet new market needs and to promote wide acceptance of flash storage standards through interoperability and ease of use. Our Data Solutions Our broad portfolio of technology and products addresses multiple end markets of Cloud, Client and Consumer and are comprised of the Western Digital , SanDisk and WD brands. Cloud represents a large and growing end market comprised primarily of products for public or private cloud environments and enterprise customers. We provide the Cloud end market with an array of high-capacity enterprise HDD, high-performance enterprise SSD and platforms. Our capacity enterprise hard disk drives provide high-capacity storage needs and a low total cost of ownership for the growing cloud data center and smart video system markets. These drives are primarily for use in data storage systems, in tiered storage models and where data must be stored reliably for years. Our high-performance enterprise class SSD include high-performance flash-based SSD and software solutions that are optimized for performance applications providing a range of capacity and performance levels primarily for use in enterprise servers and supporting high-volume online transactions, AI-related workloads, data analysis and other enterprise applications. We also provide higher value data storage platforms to the market. Through the Client end market, we provide numerous data solutions that we incorporate into our client s devices, which consist of HDD and SSD desktop and notebook PCs, gaming consoles and set top boxes, as well as flash-based embedded storage products for mobile phones, tablets, notebook PCs and other portable and wearable devices, automotive applications, Internet of Things and industrial and connected home applications. Our HDD and SSD are designed for use in devices requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various attributes such as low cost per gigabyte, quiet acoustics, low power consumption and protection against shocks. 5 Table of Contents We serve the Consumer end market with a portfolio of HDD and SSD embedded into external storage products and removable Flash, which include cards, universal serial bus ( USB ) flash drives and wireless drives, through our retail and channel routes to market. Our external HDD storage products in both mobile and desktop form factors provide affordable, high quality, reliable storage for backup and capacity expansion that are designed to keep digital content secure. We offer client portable SSD with a range of capacities and performance characteristics to address a broad spectrum of the client storage market. Our removable cards are designed primarily for use in consumer devices, such as mobile phones, tablets, imaging systems, cameras and smart video systems. Our USB flash drives are used in the computing and consumer markets and are designed for high-performance and reliability. Our wireless drive products allow in-field backup of created content, as well as wireless streaming of high-definition movies, photos, music and documents to tablets, smartphones and PCs. Competition Our industry is highly competitive. We believe we are well-positioned with our leading product portfolio, premium consumer brand, differentiated semiconductor innovation engine and leadership in driving cost efficiency. Nevertheless, we face strong competition from other manufacturers of HDD and Flash in the Cloud, Client and Consumer end markets. In HDD, we compete with Seagate Technology Holdings plc and Toshiba Electronic Devices Storage Corporation. In Flash, we compete with vertically integrated suppliers such as Kioxia, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SK Hynix, Inc., Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd. and numerous smaller companies that develop and manufacture flash-based products. Business Strategy Our overall strategy focuses on leadership, innovation and execution to be an industry-leading and broad-based developer, manufacturer and provider of storage devices and solutions that support the infrastructure that has enabled the unabated proliferation of data. Our strategy reflects the following foundational elements that we strive to meet: Drive Leadership in HDD Provide reliable capacity growth and improved total cost of ownership Enhance customers ability to generate value from data Develop new technologies across the storage landscape Drive Differentiated Leadership in Flash Capitalize on market transition to solid state drives Focus on gross margin leadership Leverage consumer brand strength Lead in Storage Innovation Lead in areal density Invest in leading HDD technologies to enable future drive capacity transition Drive capital-efficient bit growth in flash Explore tailored storage solutions to address the evolving workload requirements of generative AI Deliver Customer Value Increase long-term engagement and through-cycle agreements with key hyperscalers Maintain and expand strategic relationships with customers while transitioning into two market-leading companies Accelerate Operational Excellence Achieve operational excellence to translate technology into stockholder value Meet cost reduction targets to improve gross margin Focus on sustainability and digital innovation of our manufacturing processes 6 Table of Contents Research and Development We devote substantial resources to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering efforts on optimizing our product design and manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our IP rights. We have approximately 13,000 active patents worldwide and have many patent applications in process. We continually seek additional United States ( U.S. ) and international patents on our technology. We believe that, although our active patents and patent applications have considerable value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of our products also depends upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for cannot alone ensure our future success. In addition to patent protection of certain IP rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented IP, particularly some of our process technology, is an important factor in our success. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements, contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide less protection for confidential information than the laws of the U.S. We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties to manufacture and sell our products. We believe that we have adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in addition to our own IP portfolio to compete successfully in the storage industry. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Manufacturing and Suppliers We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills, human resources and training to continue to be successful and to adjust our manufacturing operations as necessary. We strive to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable products and high-quality components. The critical elements of our production of both HDD and Flash are high volume and utilization, low-cost assembly and testing, strict adherence to quality metrics and maintaining close relationships with our strategic component suppliers to access best-in-class technology and manufacturing capacity. We continually monitor our manufacturing capabilities to respond to the changing requirements of our customers and maintain our competitiveness and position as a data technology leader. HDD and Flash manufacturing are each complex processes involving the production and assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and rigorous testing. The manufacturing processes involve a number of steps that are dependent on each other and occur in clean room environments that demand skill in process engineering and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs of these manufacturing environments. We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. We also leverage contract manufacturers when strategically advantageous. For more information on our agreement to sell a majority interest in one of our manufacturing facilities, see Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Developments . HDD consists primarily of recording heads, magnetic media, controllers and firmware and a printed circuit board assembly. We design and manufacture substantially all of the recording heads and magnetic media required for our products. As a result, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts for these components and less reliant on recording head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. We depend on an external supply base for all remaining components and materials for use in our HDD design, manufacturing and testing. We believe the use of our in-house manufacturing, assembly and test facilities provides the controls necessary to provide the demanding capabilities, performance and reliability our customers require. 7 Table of Contents Our vertically integrated, in-house assembly and test operations for our HDD products are concentrated in Prachinburi and Bang Pa-In, Thailand; Penang, Johor Bahru, and Kuching, Malaysia; Laguna, Philippines; Shenzhen, China; and San Jose and Fremont, CA, USA. Substantially all of our flash memory supply utilized for our flash-based products is purchased from our joint ventures with Kioxia. From time to time, we also purchase flash memory from other flash manufacturers. Controllers are primarily designed in-house and manufactured by third-party foundries or acquired from third-party suppliers. We believe the use of our assembly and test facilities, as well as contract manufacturers, provides flexibility and gives us access to increased production capacity. We have developed deep relationships with these vendors and Kioxia to establish a continuous supply of flash-based memory and controllers. We generally retain multiple suppliers for our component requirements, but for business or technology reasons, we source some of our components from a limited number of sole or single source providers. For a discussion of such risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Ventures with Kioxia Our flash-based products consist of flash-based memory, controllers and firmware and other components. Substantially all of our flash-based memory is obtained from our joint ventures with Kioxia, which provide us with leading-edge, high-quality and low-cost flash memory wafers. We and Kioxia currently operate three business ventures, Flash Partners Ltd., Flash Alliance Ltd. and Flash Forward Ltd., (collectively Flash Ventures ) across seven flash-based manufacturing facilities in Japan, six of which are located in Yokkaichi, Japan and one of which is located in Kitakami, Japan. Flash Ventures will begin flash-based manufacturing operations at an eighth facility in Japan in calendar year 2025. Through Flash Ventures, we and Kioxia collaborate in the development and manufacture of flash-based memory wafers using semiconductor manufacturing equipment owned or leased by each of the Flash Ventures entities. We co-develop flash technologies (including process technology and memory design) with Kioxia for Flash Ventures use. We hold a 49.9% ownership position in each of the Flash Ventures entities. We jointly control with Kioxia the operations of Flash Ventures, and we believe our participation in Flash Ventures helps us reduce product costs, increases our ability to control the quality of our products and speeds delivery of our products to our customers. Kioxia owns the facilities and provides wafer manufacturing services to Flash Ventures at cost using manufacturing equipment owned or leased by Flash Ventures and process technologies co-owned or contributed by us and Kioxia. We and Kioxia are entitled to purchase a share of Flash Ventures output, which generally equals 50% each. The price for which we and Kioxia pay Flash Ventures for flash memory wafers is cost plus a small markup. We are obligated to pay for variable costs incurred in producing our share of Flash Ventures flash-based memory wafer supply, based on a rolling forecast. In addition, we are obligated to pay for half of Flash Ventures fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. The agreements governing the operations of the Flash Ventures entities also set out a framework for any investment by the joint venture partners in flash manufacturing capacity. We have jointly invested, and intend to continue to jointly invest, with Kioxia in the manufacturing equipment needed to support Flash Ventures flash manufacturing operations. In addition, we are obligated to fund 49.9% to 50.0% of each Flash Ventures entity s capital investments to the extent that the Flash Ventures entity s operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments. For a discussion of risks associated with our business ventures with Kioxia, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Distribution We sell our products to computer manufacturers and OEMs, cloud service providers, resellers, distributors and retailers throughout the world. We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies but do not include sales to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 72%, 69% and 71% of our net revenue for 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Sales to international customers are subject to certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations, including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For a discussion of such risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 8 Table of Contents We perform our marketing and advertising functions both internally and through outside firms utilizing both consumer media and trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user markets. We also maintain customer relationships through direct communication and by providing information and support through our website. In accordance with standard storage industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse certain marketing expenditures. We also provide distributors, resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs. For each of 2024, 2023 and 2022, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue. Seasonality We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our business with higher levels of demand in the first and second 