Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B. Other Information 104 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 104 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 105 Item 11. Executive Compensation 105 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 105 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 110 Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters, and references to financial information are on a consolidated basis. As used herein, the terms we, us, our, the Company, WDC and Western Digital refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless we state, or the context indicates, otherwise. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we make references to our website at www.westerndigital.com. References to our website through this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only and the content on our website does not constitute a part of, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. WDC, a Delaware corporation, is the parent company of our data storage business. Our principal executive offices are located at 5601 Great Oaks Parkway, San Jose, California 95119. Our telephone number is (408) 717-6000. Western Digital, the Western Digital logo, SanDisk and WD are registered trademarks or trademarks of Western Digital or its affiliates in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks, registered trademarks and/or service marks, indicated or otherwise, are the property of their respective owners. 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any statements that do not relate to historical or current facts or matters are forward-looking statements. You can identify some of the forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, would, project, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast, and the like, or the use of future tense. Statements concerning current conditions may also be forward-looking if they imply a continuation of current conditions. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: our market position and portfolio synergies; our product plans and business strategies, including our ongoing review of strategic alternatives; consumer trends and market conditions, market opportunities and our market position; expectations regarding the global macroeconomic environment, including with respect to economic volatility and uncertainty, declines in consumer confidence and economic growth, customers reducing their inventories, rising interest rates and fuel prices, inflation, the ongoing conflict in Ukraine and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; expectations regarding supply chain conditions and constraints; expectations regarding demand trends and market conditions for our products and expected future financial performance; expectations regarding our product momentum and product development and technology plans; expectations regarding capital expenditure plans and investments; expectations regarding our Flash Ventures joint venture with Kioxia Corporation ( Kioxia ), the flash industry and our flash wafer output plans and sources of funding for related expenditures; expectations regarding our effective tax rate and our unrecognized tax benefits; and our beliefs regarding our capital allocation plans and the sufficiency of our available liquidity to meet our working capital, debt and capital expenditure needs. These forward-looking statements are based on management s current expectations, represent the most current information available to the Company as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results or performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties are described in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect the outcome of our forward-looking statements and our business and operating results, including those made in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any of those made in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new information or events after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Western Digital Corporation ( Western Digital ) is on a mission to unlock the potential of data by harnessing the possibility to use it. We are a leading developer, manufacturer, and provider of data storage devices based on both flash-based products ( Flash ) and hard disk drives ( HDD ) technologies. With dedicated business units driving advancements in NAND flash and magnetic recording technologies, we create and drive innovations needed to help customers capture, preserve, access, and transform an ever-increasing diversity of data. Founded in 1970 in Santa Ana, California, Western Digital is now a Standard Poor s 500 ( S P 500 ) company headquartered in San Jose, California. We have one of the technology industry s most valuable patent portfolios with approximately 13,500 active patents worldwide. We have a rich heritage of innovation and operational excellence, a wide range of intellectual property ( IP ) assets and broad research and development ( R D ) capabilities. The strong growth in amount, value, and use of data continues, creating a global need for larger, faster and more capable storage solutions. We are a customer-focused organization that has developed deep relationships with industry leaders to continue to deliver innovative solutions to help users capture, store and transform data across a boundless range of applications. With much of the world s data stored on Western Digital products, our innovation powers the global technology ecosystem from consumer devices to the edge to the heart of the cloud. We enable cloud, Internet, and social media infrastructure players to build more powerful, cost effective and efficient data centers. We help original equipment manufacturers ( OEM ) address storage opportunities and solutions to capture and transform data in a myriad of devices and edge technologies. We have also built strong consumer brands with tools to manage vast libraries of personal content and to push the limits of what s possible for storage. At Western Digital, we continue to transform ourselves to address the growth in data by providing what we believe to be the broadest range of storage technologies in the industry with a comprehensive product portfolio and global reach. Industry We operate in the data storage industry. The ability to access, store and share data from anywhere on any device is increasingly important to our customers and end users. From the intelligent edge to the cloud, data storage is a fundamental component underpinning the global technology architecture. Our strengths in innovation and cost leadership, diversified product portfolio and broad routes to market provide a foundation upon which we are solidifying our position as an essential building block of the digital economy. There is tremendous market opportunity flowing from the rapid global adoption of the technology architecture built with cloud infrastructure tied to intelligent endpoints all connected by high performance networks. The value and urgency of data storage at every point across this architecture has never been clearer. The growth in computing complexity, cloud computing applications, connected mobile devices and Internet connected products, and edge devices is driving unabated growth in the volume of digital content to be stored and used. This growth has led to a creation of new form factors for data storage. The storage industry is increasingly utilizing tiered architectures with HDD, solid state drives ( SSD ) and other non-volatile memory-based storage to address an expanding set of uses and applications. We believe our expertise and innovation across both Flash and HDD technologies enable us to bring powerful solutions to a broader range of applications. We continuously monitor the full array of storage technologies, including reviewing these technologies with our customers, to ensure we are appropriately resourced to meet our customers storage needs. Competition Our industry is highly competitive. We compete with manufacturers of Flash and HDD for cloud, client, and consumer end markets. In Flash, we compete with vertically integrated suppliers such as Kioxia, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SK hynix, Inc., Solidigm, Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd. and numerous smaller companies that assemble flash into products. In HDD, we compete with Seagate Technology plc and Toshiba Electronic Devices Storage Corporation. 4 Table of Contents Business Strategy Our overall strategy is to leverage our innovation, technology and execution capabilities to be an industry-leading and broad-based developer, manufacturer and provider of storage devices and solutions that support the infrastructure that has enabled the unabated proliferation of data. We believe we are the only company in the world with large-scale capabilities to develop and manufacture a portfolio of integrated data storage solutions that are based on both Flash and HDD technologies. We strive to successfully execute our strategy through the following foundational elements in order to create long-term value for our customers, partners, investors and employees: Innovation and Cost Leadership: We continue to innovate and develop advanced technologies across platforms for both Flash and HDD to deliver timely new products and solutions to meet growing demands for scale, performance and cost efficiency in the market. Broad Product Portfolio: We leverage our capabilities in firmware, software and systems in both Flash and HDD to deliver compelling and differentiated integrated storage solutions to our customers that offer the best combinations of performance, cost, power consumption, form factor, quality and reliability, while creating new use cases for our solutions in emerging markets. Operational Excellence: We are focused on delivering the best value for our customers in cloud, client and consumer end markets through a relentless focus on appropriately scaling our operations across both Flash and HDD technologies to efficiently support business growth; achieving best in class cost, quality and cycle-time; maintaining industry leading manufacturing capabilities; and having a competitive advantage in supply-chain management. Our strategy provides the following benefits, which distinguish us in the dynamic and competitive data storage industry: a broad product portfolio that differentiates us as a leading developer and manufacturer of integrated products and solutions based on both Flash and HDD, making us a more strategic supply partner to our large-scale customers who have storage needs across the data infrastructure ecosystem; efficient and flexible manufacturing capabilities, allowing us to leverage our Flash and HDD R D and capital expenditures to deliver innovative and cost-effective storage solutions to multiple markets; and deep relationships with industry leaders across the data ecosystems that give us the broadest routes to market. In June 2022, we announced that we are reviewing potential strategic alternatives aimed at further optimizing long-term value for our stockholders. The Executive Committee of our Board, chaired by our CEO, is overseeing the assessment process, and the potential strategic alternatives include, among other things, options for separating our Flash and HDD business units. Technology Flash Technologies . Flash products provide non-volatile data storage based on flash technology. We develop and manufacture solid state storage products for a variety of applications including enterprise or cloud storage, client storage, automotive, mobile devices and removable memory devices. Over time, we have successfully developed and commercialized successive generations of 3-dimensional flash technology with increased numbers of storage bits per cell in an increasingly smaller form factor, further driving cost reductions. We devote significant research and development resources to the development of highly reliable, high-performance, cost-effective flash-based technology and are pursuing developments in next generation flash-based technology capacities. We are leveraging our expertise, resources and strategic investments in non-volatile memories to explore a wide spectrum of persistent memory and storage class memory technologies. We have also initiated, defined and developed standards to meet new market needs and to promote wide acceptance of flash storage standards through interoperability and ease-of-use. 5 Table of Contents Hard Disk Drives. HDD products provide non-volatile data storage by recording magnetic information on a rotating disk. We develop and manufacture substantially all of the recording heads and magnetic media used in our HDD products. We have led the industry in innovation to drive increased areal density and high-performance attributes. Our improvements in HDD capacity, which lower product costs over time, have been enabled largely through advancements in magnetic recording head and media technologies. Our multi-year product roadmap for high-capacity HDD, which combine ePMR, OptiNAND, UltraSMR and triple stage actuators to deliver a cutting edge portfolio of drives, in commercial volumes, at a wide variety of capacity points, puts Western Digital in great position to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the large and growing storage markets We invest considerable resources in R D, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment for recording head and media technology, as well as other aspects of the magnetic recording system such as HDD mechanics, controller and firmware technology, in order to secure our competitive position and cost structure. Our products generally leverage a common platform for various products within product families, and in some cases across product families, resulting in the commonality of components which reduces our exposure to changes in demand, facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts onto successive product models. Our Data Solutions Our broad portfolio of technology and products address multiple end markets and are comprised of the Western Digital , SanDisk and WD brands . In 2022, we refined the end markets we report to be Cloud , Client and Consumer . Cloud represents a large and growing end market comprised primarily of products for public or private cloud environments and enterprise customers, which we believe we are uniquely positioned to address as the only provider of both flash and hard drive products. We provide the Cloud end market with an array of high-capacity enterprise HDD and high-performance enterprise SSD, and platforms. Our capacity enterprise helium hard drives provide high-capacity storage needs and low total cost of ownership per GB for the growing cloud data center market. These drives are primarily for use in data storage systems, in tiered storage models and where data must be stored reliably for years. Our high-performance enterprise class SSD include high-performance flash-based SSD and software solutions that are optimized for performance applications providing a range of capacity and performance levels primarily for use in enterprise servers and supporting high volume on-line transactions, data analysis and other enterprise applications. We also provide higher value data storage platforms to the market. Through the Client end market, we provide our OEM and channel customers a broad array of high-performance flash and hard drive solutions across personal computer ( PC ), mobile, gaming consoles, automotive, virtual reality headsets, at-home entertainment, and industrial spaces. We provide numerous data solutions that we incorporate into our client s devices, which consist of HDD and SSD desktop and notebook PCs, smart video systems, gaming consoles and set top boxes, as well as flash-based embedded storage products for mobile phones, tablets, notebook PCs and other portable and wearable devices, automotive applications, Internet of Things, industrial and connected home applications. Our HDD and SSD are designed for use in devices requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various attributes such as low cost per gigabyte, quiet acoustics, low power consumption and protection against shocks. The Consumer end market is highlighted by our broad range of retail and other end-user products, which capitalize on the strength of our product brand recognition and vast points of presence around the world. We provide consumers with a portfolio of HDD and SSD embedded into external storage products and removable Flash, which include cards, universal serial bus ( USB ) flash drives and wireless drives, through our retail and channel routes to market. Our external HDD storage products in both mobile and desktop form factors provide affordable, high quality, reliable storage for backup and capacity expansion that are designed to keep digital content secure. We offer client portable SSD with a range of capacities and performance characteristics to address a broad spectrum of the client storage market. Our removable cards are designed primarily for use in consumer devices, such as mobile phones, tablets, imaging systems, cameras and smart video systems. Our USB flash drives are used in the computing and consumer markets and are designed for high-performance and reliability. Our wireless drive products allow in-field back up of created content, as well as wireless streaming of high-definition movies, photos, music and documents to tablets, smartphones and PCs. Research and Development We devote substantial resources to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering efforts on optimizing our product design and manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 Table of Contents Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our IP rights. We have approximately 13,500 active patents worldwide and have many patent applications in process. We continually seek additional United States ( U.S. ) and international patents on our technology. We believe that, although our active patents and patent applications have considerable value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of our products also depends upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for cannot alone ensure our future success. In addition to patent protection of certain IP rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented IP, particularly some of our process technology, is an important factor in our success. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements, contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide less protection for confidential information than the laws of the U.S. We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties to manufacture and sell our products. We believe that we have adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in addition to our own IP portfolio to compete successfully in the storage industry. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Manufacturing We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills, human resources and training to continue to be successful and to grow our manufacturing operations as necessary. We strive to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable products and high-quality components. The critical elements of our production of Flash and HDD are high-volume and utilization, low-cost assembly and testing, strict adherence to quality metrics and maintaining close relationships with our strategic component suppliers to access best-in-class technology and manufacturing capacity. We continually monitor our manufacturing capabilities to respond to the changing requirements of our customers and maintain our competitiveness and position as a data technology leader. Flash and HDD manufacturing are complex processes involving the production and assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and rigorous testing. The manufacturing processes involve a number of steps that are dependent on each other and occur in clean room environments that demand skill in process engineering and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs of these manufacturing environments. We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease manufacturing costs. For example, we are taking aggressive actions to restructure our client HDD manufacturing footprint in light of ongoing trends in the HDD Client market as PCs shift from using HDD to Flash technology. We continually evaluate which steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. We also leverage contract manufacturers when strategically advantageous. Our vertically integrated, in-house assembly and test operations for our HDD products are concentrated in Prachinburi and Bang Pa-In, Thailand; Penang, Johor Bahru, and Kuching, Malaysia; Laguna, Philippines; Shenzhen, China; San Jose and Fremont, CA, USA. Ventures with Kioxia Substantially all of our flash-based supply requirements for Flash is obtained from our ventures with Kioxia, which provide us with leading-edge, high-quality and low-cost flash memory wafers. While substantially all of our flash memory supply utilized for our products is purchased from these ventures, from time-to-time, we also purchase flash memory from other flash manufacturers. While we do not unilaterally control the operations of our ventures with Kioxia, we believe that our business venture relationship with Kioxia helps us reduce product costs, increases our ability to control the quality of our products and speeds delivery of our products to our customers. Our business ventures with Kioxia are located primarily in Yokkaichi and Kitakami, Japan, and our in-house assembly and test operations are located in Shanghai, China and Penang, Malaysia. 7 Table of Contents We and Kioxia currently operate three business ventures in 300-millimeter flash-based manufacturing facilities in Japan, which provide us leading-edge, cost-competitive flash-based memory wafers for our end products. Through Flash Partners Ltd., Flash Alliance Ltd., and Flash Forward Ltd., which we collectively refer to as Flash Ventures, we and Kioxia collaborate in the development and manufacture of flash-based memory wafers using semiconductor manufacturing equipment owned or leased by each of the Flash Venture entities. We hold a 49.9% ownership position in each of the Flash Venture entities. Each Flash Venture entity purchases wafers from Kioxia at cost and then resells those wafers to us and Kioxia at cost plus a small mark-up. We are obligated to take our share of the output from these ventures or pay for variable costs incurred in producing our share of Flash Ventures flash-based memory wafer supply, based on our three-month forecast, which generally equals 50% of Flash Ventures output. In addition, we are obligated to pay for half of Flash Ventures fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. We are also obligated to fund 49.9% to 50.0% of each Flash Ventures entity s capital investments to the extent that the Flash Ventures entity s operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments. We co-develop flash technologies (including process technology and memory design) with Kioxia and contribute IP for Flash Ventures use. The agreements governing the operations of the Flash Venture entities also set out a framework for any investment by the joint venture partners in flash manufacturing capacity. Since its inception, Flash Ventures primary manufacturing site has been located in Yokkaichi, Japan. The Yokkaichi site, which is owned and operated by Kioxia, currently includes five wafer fabrication facilities. We have jointly invested, and intend to continue to jointly invest, with Kioxia in manufacturing equipment for the Yokkaichi fabrication facilities. We also have agreements that extend Flash Ventures to a wafer fabrication facility located in Kitakami, Japan, referred to as K1 , which is operated by Kioxia Iwate Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kioxia. The primary purpose of K1 is to provide clean room space to continue the transition of existing flash-based wafer capacity to newer technology nodes. K1 is now fully operational. In January 2022, we entered into additional agreements regarding Flash Ventures investment in a new wafer fabrication facility currently under construction in Yokkaichi, Japan, referred to as Y7 , which upon completion will be the sixth wafer fabrication facility at the Yokkaichi site. The primary purpose of Y7 is to provide clean room space to continue the transition of existing flash-based wafer capacity to newer flash technology nodes. The first phase of construction of Y7 is complete and output is expected to commence in the first half of 2023. For a discussion of risks associated with our business ventures with Kioxia, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Materials and Supplies Our Flash consists of flash-based memory, controllers and firmware and other components. Substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by our business ventures with Kioxia. Controllers are primarily designed in-house and manufactured by third-party foundries or acquired from third-party suppliers. We believe the use of our in-house assembly and test facilities, as well as contract manufacturers, provides flexibility and gives us access to increased production capacity. We have developed deep relationships with these vendors and Kioxia to establish continuous supply of flash-based memory and controllers. HDD consists primarily of recording heads, magnetic media, controllers and firmware, and a printed circuit board assembly. We design and manufacture substantially all of the recording heads and magnetic media required for our products. As a result, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts for these components and less reliant on recording head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. We depend on an external supply base for all remaining components and materials for use in our HDD product design, manufacturing, and testing. We believe the use of our in-house manufacturing, assembly and test facilities provides the controls necessary to provide the demanding capabilities, performance and reliability our customers require. We generally retain multiple suppliers for our component requirements but, for business or technology reasons, we source some of our components from a limited number of sole or single source providers. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Distribution We sell our products to computer manufacturers and OEMs, cloud service providers, resellers, distributors and retailers throughout the world. We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies but d