ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 A. INTRODUCTION 3 B. UTILITY ENERGY OPERATIONS 3 C. ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION SEGMENT 14 D. NON-UTILITY OPERATIONS 15 E. REGULATION 16 F. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 19 G. EMPLOYEES 20 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 31 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 32 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 34 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 35 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 36 PART II 38 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 38 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 38 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 39 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 67 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 68 A. Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 68 B. Consolidated Income Statements 71 C. Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 72 D. Consolidated Balance Sheets 73 E. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 74 F. Consolidated Statements of Equity 75 G. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 76 Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 76 Note 2 Acquisitions 87 Note 3 Dispositions 89 Note 4 Operating Revenues 90 Note 5 Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 92 Note 6 Property, Plant, and Equipment 94 Note 7 Jointly Owned Utility Facilities 96 Note 8 Asset Retirement Obligations 97 Note 9 Goodwill 97 Note 10 Common Equity 98 Note 11 Preferred Stock 100 Note 12 Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit 101 Note 13 Long-Term Debt 102 Note 14 Leases 104 Note 15 Income Taxes 108 Note 16 Fair Value Measurements 111 Note 17 Derivative Instruments 112 2019 Form 10-K i WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents Note 18 Guarantees 114 Note 19 Employee Benefits 114 Note 20 Investment in Transmission Affiliates 119 Note 21 Segment Information 121 Note 22 Variable Interest Entities 123 Note 23 Commitments and Contingencies 124 Note 24 Supplemental Cash Flow Information 128 Note 25 Regulatory Environment 129 Note 26 Other Income, Net 133 Note 27 Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 133 Note 28 New Accounting Pronouncements 134 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 135 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 135 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 135 PART III 136 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT 136 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 136 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 136 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 137 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 137 PART IV 138 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 138 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 143 SCHEDULE I CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 144 A. Income Statements 144 B. Statements of Comprehensive Income 145 C. Balance Sheets 146 D. Statements of Cash Flows 147 E. Notes to Parent Company Financial Statements 148 SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 150 SIGNATURES 151 2019 Form 10-K ii WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS The abbreviations and terms set forth below are used throughout this report and have the meanings assigned to them below: Subsidiaries and Affiliates ATC American Transmission Company LLC ATC Holdco ATC Holdco LLC ATC Holding ATC Holding LLC Bishop Hill III Bishop Hill Energy III LLC Blooming Grove Blooming Grove Wind Energy Center LLC Bluewater Bluewater Natural Gas Holding, LLC Bluewater Gas Storage Bluewater Gas Storage, LLC Bostco Bostco LLC Coyote Ridge Coyote Ridge Wind, LLC Integrys Integrys Holding, Inc. MERC Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation MGU Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation NSG North Shore Gas Company PDL WPS Power Development, LLC PELLC Peoples Energy, LLC PGL The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company Thunderhead Thunderhead Wind Energy LLC UMERC Upper Michigan Energy Resources Corporation Upstream Upstream Wind Energy LLC WBS WEC Business Services LLC WE Wisconsin Electric Power Company We Power W.E. Power, LLC WEC Energy Group WEC Energy Group, Inc. WECC Wisconsin Energy Capital Corporation WECI WEC Infrastructure LLC WG Wisconsin Gas LLC Wispark Wispark LLC Wisvest Wisvest LLC WPS Wisconsin Public Service Corporation WRPC Wisconsin River Power Company Federal and State Regulatory Agencies EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ICC Illinois Commerce Commission IDNR Illinois Department of Natural Resources IEPA Illinois Environmental Protection Agency IRS United States Internal Revenue Service MPSC Michigan Public Service Commission MPUC Minnesota Public Utilities Commission PSCW Public Service Commission of Wisconsin SEC Securities and Exchange Commission WDNR Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources Accounting Terms AFUDC Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ARO Asset Retirement Obligation ASC Accounting Standards Codification 2019 Form 10-K iii WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents ASU Accounting Standards Update CWIP Construction Work in Progress FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles LIFO Last-In, First-Out OPEB Other Postretirement Employee Benefits SAB Staff Accounting Bulletin Environmental Terms ACE Affordable Clean Energy Act 141 2005 Wisconsin Act 141 BATW Bottom Ash Transport Water BSER Best System of Emission Reduction BTA Best Technology Available CAA Clean Air Act CO 2 Carbon Dioxide ELG Steam Electric Effluent Limitation Guidelines FGD Flue Gas Desulfurization GHG Greenhouse Gas NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards GMZ Groundwater Management Zone MATS Mercury and Air Toxics Standards NOV Notice of Violation NOx Nitrogen Oxide PCB Polychlorinated Biphenyl RTR Risk and Technology Review SO 2 Sulfur Dioxide VN Violation Notice Measurements Dth Dekatherm MDth One thousand Dekatherms MW Megawatt MWh Megawatt-hour Other Terms and Abbreviations 2007 Junior Notes WEC Energy Group, Inc.'s 2007 Junior Subordinated Notes Due 2067 AG Attorney General AMI Advanced Metering Infrastructure ARR Auction Revenue Right Badger Hollow I Badger Hollow Solar Farm I Badger Hollow II Badger Hollow Solar Farm II CFR Code of Federal Regulations Compensation Committee Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ERGS Elm Road Generating Station ER 1 Elm Road Generating Station Unit 1 ER 2 Elm Road Generating Station Unit 2 ERP Enterprise Resource Planning Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FTR Financial Transmission Right GCRM Gas Cost Recovery Mechanism 2019 Form 10-K iv WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents GUIC Gas Utility Infrastructure Costs Holding Company Act Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LMP Locational Marginal Price LNG Liquefied Natural Gas MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. MISO Energy Markets MISO Energy and Operating Reserves Market NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange OCPP Oak Creek Power Plant OC 5 Oak Creek Power Plant Unit 5 OC 6 Oak Creek Power Plant Unit 6 OC 7 Oak Creek Power Plant Unit 7 OC 8 Oak Creek Power Plant Unit 8 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan WEC Energy Group 1993 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2016 PIPP Presque Isle Power Plant Point Beach Point Beach Nuclear Power Plant PUHCA 2005 Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 PWGS Port Washington Generating Station PWGS 1 Port Washington Generating Station Unit 1 PWGS 2 Port Washington Generating Station Unit 2 QIP Qualifying Infrastructure Plant RCC Replacement Capital Covenant (dated May 11, 2007) ROE Return on Equity RTO Regional Transmission Organization SMP Natural Gas System Modernization Program SOX Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act SREC Solar Renewable Energy Certificate SSR System Support Resource Tax Legislation Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 Tilden Tilden Mining Company Two Creeks Two Creeks Solar Project VAPP Valley Power Plant VITA Variable Income Tax Adjustment Rider 2019 Form 10-K v WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION In this report, we make statements concerning our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by reference to a future period or periods or by the use of terms such as "anticipates," "believes," "could," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "goals," "guidance," "intends," "may," "objectives," "plans," "possible," "potential," "projects," "seeks," "should," "targets," "will," or variations of these terms. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning management's expectations and projections regarding earnings, completion of capital projects, sales and customer growth, rate actions and related filings with regulatory authorities, environmental and other regulations and associated compliance costs, legal proceedings, dividend payout ratios, effective tax rates, pension and OPEB plans, fuel costs, sources of electric energy supply, coal and natural gas deliveries, remediation costs, environmental matters, liquidity and capital resources, and other matters. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors and those identified below: Factors affecting utility operations such as catastrophic weather-related damage, environmental incidents, unplanned facility outages and repairs and maintenance, and electric transmission or natural gas pipeline system constraints; Factors affecting the demand for electricity and natural gas, including political developments, unusual weather, changes in economic conditions, customer growth and declines, commodity prices, energy conservation efforts, and continued adoption of distributed generation by customers; The timing, resolution, and impact of rate cases and negotiations, including recovery of deferred and current costs and the ability to earn a reasonable return on investment, and other regulatory decisions impacting our regulated operations; The impact of recent and future federal, state, and local legislative and/or regulatory changes, including changes in rate-setting policies or procedures, deregulation and restructuring of the electric and/or natural gas utility industries, transmission or distribution system operation, the approval process for new construction, reliability standards, pipeline integrity and safety standards, allocation of energy assistance, energy efficiency mandates, and tax laws, including the Tax Legislation as well as those that affect our ability to use production tax credits and investment tax credits; Federal and state legislative and regulatory changes relating to the environment, including climate change and other environmental regulations impacting generation facilities and renewable energy standards, the enforcement of these laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation of regulations or permit conditions by regulatory agencies, and the recovery of associated remediation and compliance costs; The ability to obtain and retain customers, including wholesale customers, due to increased competition in our electric and natural gas markets from retail choice and alternative electric suppliers, and continued industry consolidation; The timely completion of capital projects within budgets and the ability to recover the related costs through rates; Factors affecting the implementation of our generation reshaping plan, including related regulatory decisions, the cost of materials, supplies, and labor, and the feasibility of competing projects; The financial and operational feasibility of taking more aggressive action to further reduce GHG emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases; The risks associated with changing commodity prices, particularly natural gas and electricity, and the availability of sources of fossil fuel, natural gas, purchased power, materials needed to operate environmental controls at our electric generating facilities, or water supply due to high demand, shortages, transportation problems, nonperformance by electric energy or natural gas suppliers under existing power purchase or natural gas supply contracts, or other developments; 2019 Form 10-K 1 WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents Changes in credit ratings, interest rates, and our ability to access the capital markets, caused by volatility in the global credit markets, our capitalization structure, and market perceptions of the utility industry, us, or any of our subsidiaries; Changes in the method of determining LIBOR or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate; Costs and effects of litigation, administrative proceedings, investigations, settlements, claims, and inquiries; The direct or indirect effect on our business resulting from terrorist attacks and cyber security intrusions, as well as the threat of such incidents, including the failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, the associated costs to protect our utility assets, technology systems, and personal information, and the costs to notify affected persons to mitigate their information security concerns and to comply with state notification laws; Restrictions imposed by various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances, that could prevent us from paying our common stock dividends, taxes, and other expenses, and meeting our debt obligations; The risk of financial loss, including increases in bad debt expense, associated with the inability of our customers, counterparties, and affiliates to meet their obligations; Changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; The financial performance of ATC and its corresponding contribution to our earnings; The investment performance of our employee benefit plan assets, as well as unanticipated changes in related actuarial assumptions, which could impact future funding requirements; Factors affecting the employee workforce, including loss of key personnel, internal restructuring, work stoppages, and collective bargaining agreements and negotiations with union employees; Advances in technology, and related legislation or regulation supporting the use of that technology, that result in competitive disadvantages and create the potential for impairment of existing assets; The risk associated with the values of goodwill and other intangible assets and their possible impairment; Potential business strategies to acquire and dispose of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed timely or within budgets, and legislative or regulatory restrictions or caps on non-utility acquisitions, investments or projects, including the State of Wisconsin's public utility holding company law; The timing and outcome of any audits, disputes, and other proceedings related to taxes; The ability to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with SOX, while both integrating and continuing to consolidate our enterprise systems; The effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and Other considerations disclosed elsewhere herein and in other reports we file with the SEC or in other publicly disseminated written documents. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2019 Form 10-K 2 WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS A. INTRODUCTION In this report, when we refer to "WEC Energy Group," "the Company," "us," "we," "our," or "ours," we are referring to WEC Energy Group, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. The term "utility" refers to the regulated activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies, while the term "non-utility" refers to the activities of the electric and natural gas companies that are not regulated, as well as We Power and Bluewater. The term "nonregulated" refers to activities at Bishop Hill III, Coyote Ridge, Upstream, WEC Energy Group holding company, the Integrys holding company, the PELLC holding company, Wispark, Bostco, Wisvest, WECC, WBS, and PDL. References to "Notes" are to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information about our business operations, see Note 21, Segment Information , and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations. WEC Energy Group, Inc. We were incorporated in the state of Wisconsin in 1981 and became a diversified holding company in 1986. We maintain our principal executive offices in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. On June 29, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of Integrys and changed our name to WEC Energy Group, Inc. Our wholly owned subsidiaries provide regulated natural gas and electricity, as well as nonregulated renewable energy. We have an approximately 60% equity interest in ATC (an electric transmission company operating in Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin). At December 31, 2019 , we had six reportable segments, which are discussed below. For additional information about our reportable segments, see Note 21, Segment Information . Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are made available on our website, www.wecenergygroup.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. B. UTILITY ENERGY OPERATIONS Wisconsin Segment The Wisconsin segment includes the electric and natural gas utility operations of WE, WPS, WG, and UMERC. Electric Utility Operations For the periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our electric utility operations included operations of WE, WPS and UMERC. WE generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in southeastern Wisconsin (including the metropolitan Milwaukee area), east central Wisconsin, and northern Wisconsin. WE also served an iron ore mine customer, Tilden, in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, through March 31, 2019 when Tilden became a customer of UMERC. WPS generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in northeastern and central Wisconsin. UMERC generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. UMERC began generating electricity when its new natural gas-fired generation achieved commercial operation on March 31, 2019. 2019 Form 10-K 3 WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents Operating Revenues The following table shows electric utility operating revenues, including steam operations, for our Wisconsin segment disaggregated by customer class for the year ended December 31, 2017. For information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, see Note 4, Operating Revenues . (in millions) 2017 Operating revenues Residential $ 1,581.5 Small commercial and industrial (1) 1,400.9 Large commercial and industrial (1) 913.7 Other 30.5 Retail (1) 3,926.6 Wholesale 233.4 Resale 270.6 Steam 23.3 Other operating revenues (2) 105.1 Total operating revenues (1) $ 4,559.0 (1) Includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in Michigan. (2) Includes SSR revenues, amounts collected from (refunded to) customers for certain fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from costs included in rates, and other revenues, partially offset by revenues from Tilden that were addressed in WE's December 2019 Wisconsin rate order. Electric Sales Our electric energy deliveries included supply and distribution sales to retail, wholesale, and resale customers, and distribution sales to those customers who switched to an alternative electric supplier in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. In 2019 , retail revenues accounted for 90.4% of total electric operating revenues, wholesale revenues accounted for 4.4% of total electric operating revenues, and resale revenues accounted for 3.8% of total electric operating revenues. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Wisconsin Segment Contribution to Operating Income for information on MWh sales by customer class. Our electric utilities are authorized to provide retail electric service in designated territories in the state of Wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities, and in certain territories in the state of Michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities. Our electric utilities buy and sell wholesale electric power by participating in the MISO Energy Markets. The cost of our individual generation offered into the MISO Energy Markets compared to our competitors affects how often our generating units are dispatched and whether we buy or sell power, based on our customers' needs. We provide wholesale electric service to various customers, including electric cooperatives, municipal joint action agencies, other investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, and energy marketers. For more information, see E. Regulation. The majority of our sales for resale are sold into an energy market operated by MISO at market rates based on availability of our generation and market demand. Retail fuel costs are reduced by the amount that revenue exceeds the costs of sales derived from these opportunity sales. Steam Sales WE has a steam utility that generates, distributes, and sells steam supplied by the VAPP to customers in metropolitan Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Steam is used by customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water, and humidification. Annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based on system growth and variations in weather conditions. 2019 Form 10-K 4 WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents Electric Sales Forecast Our service territory experienced a decline in weather-normalized retail electric sales in 2019 due primarily to reduced industrial sales. We currently forecast retail electric sales volumes, excluding the Tilden mine located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, to grow between 1% and 1.5% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. Electric peak demand is expected to grow between flat and 0.5% over the next five years. Customers Year Ended December 31 (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Electric customers end of year Residential 1,449.7 1,441.3 1,431.4 Small commercial and industrial 174.6 173.2 172.2 Large commercial and industrial 0.9 0.9 0.9 Wholesale and other 2.7 2.7 2.6 Total electric customers end of year 1,627.9 1,618.1 1,607.1 Steam customers end of year 0.4 0.4 0.4 Electric Commercial and Industrial Retail Customers We provide electric utility service to a diversified base of customers in industries such as metals and other manufacturing, paper, governmental, food products, health services, education, and retail. Electric Generation and Supply Mix Our electric supply strategy is to provide our customers with energy from plants using a diverse fuel mix that is expected to balance a stable, reliable, and affordable supply of electricity with environmental stewardship. Through our participation in the MISO Energy Markets, we supply a significant amount of electricity to our customers from power plants that we own. We supplement our internally generated power supply with long-term power purchase agreements, including the Point Beach power purchase agreement discussed under the heading "Power Purchase Commitments," and through spot purchases in the MISO Energy Markets. We also sell excess power supply into the MISO Energy Markets when it is economical, which reduces net fuel costs by offsetting costs of purchased power. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements. 2019 Form 10-K 5 WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents The table below indicates our sources of electric energy supply as a percentage of sales for the three years ended December 31, as well as estimates for 2020 : Estimate (1) Actual 2020 2019 2018 2017 Company-owned generation units: Coal 32.5 % 36.3 % 44.7 % 48.5 % Natural gas: Combined cycle 24.3 % 26.8 % 19.7 % 16.5 % Steam turbine 0.9 % 0.8 % 0.6 % 0.8 % Natural gas/oil peaking units 4.4 % 0.9 % 1.7 % 1.1 % Renewables (2) 4.2 % 4.4 % 4.1 % 4.1 % Total company-owned generation units 66.3 % 69.2 % 70.8 % 71.0 % Power purchase contracts: Nuclear 19.0 % 19.8 % 18.6 % 17.7 % Natural gas 2.7 % 1.8 % 1.5 % 1.3 % Renewables (2) 2.5 % 2.0 % 2.4 % 2.9 % Other 1.8 % 1.8 % 1.7 % 1.6 % Total power purchase contracts 26.0 % 25.4 % 24.2 % 23.5 % Purchased power from MISO 7.7 % 5.4 % 5.0 % 5.5 % Total purchased power 33.7 % 30.8 % 29.2 % 29.0 % Total electric utility supply 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) The values included in the estimate assume a natural gas price based on the February 2020 NYMEX. (2) Includes hydroelectric, biomass, and wind generation. Electric Generation Facilities Our generation portfolio is a mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to balance providing energy that is stable, reliable, and affordable with environmental stewardship. We own approximately 7,118 MW of generation capacity, including owned and jointly owned facilities. Our facilities include coal-fired plants, natural gas-fired plants, and renewable generation. Certain of our natural gas fired generation units have the ability to burn oil if natural gas is not available due to delivery constraints. For more information about our facilities, see Item 2. Properties. On March 31, 2019, we added to our electric generation portfolio when UMERC's new natural gas-fired generation with a 187 MW rated capacity in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan achieved commercial operation. See Note 25, Regulatory Environment, for more information . Reshaping our Generation Fleet The planned reshaping of our generation fleet balances reliability and customer cost with environmental stewardship. Taken as a whole, this plan should reduce costs to customers, preserve fuel diversity, and lower carbon emissions. Generation reshaping includes retiring older fossil fuel generation units, building state-of-the-art natural gas generation, and investing in cost-effective zero-carbon generation. In 2019, we met and exceeded our 2030 goal of reducing CO 2 emissions by 40% below 2005 levels and are re-evaluating our longer-term CO 2 reduction goals. We have already retired more than 1,800 MW of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018, and expect to continue adding natural gas-fired generating units and renewable generation, including utility-scale solar projects. The generation reshaping plan included the 2018 retirements of the Pleasant Prairie power plant, the Pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned Edgewater Unit 4 generating units as well as the March 2019 retirement of the Presque Isle power plant. For more information related to these power plant retirements, see Note 6, Property, Plant, and Equipment . 2019 Form 10-K 6 WEC Energy Group, Inc. Table of Contents Renewable Generation Our electric utilities meet a portion of their electric generation supply with various renewable energy resources, including wind, hydroelectric, biomass, and in the future, solar projects. This helps our electric utilities maintain compliance with renewable energy legislation. These renewable energy resources also help us maintain diversity in our generation portfolio, which effectively serves as a price hedge against future fuel costs, and will help mitigate the risk of potential unknown costs associated with any future carbon restrictions for electric generators. I n December 2018, WE received approval from the PSCW for the Dedicated Renewable Energy Resource pilot program, a program for customers who wish to access a large-scale renewable project located in Wisconsin that WE would operate. The project will contribute toward meeting WE's peak demand, adding up to 150 MW of renewables to WE's portfolio. Solar I n December 2018, WE received approval from the PSCW for the Solar Now pilot program, which is expected to add 35 MW of solar generation to WE's portfolio and will allow non-profit and government entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers to site solar arrays on their property. Under this program, in 2019, WE constructed 5 MW of solar generation and expects to construct more than double that amount in 2020. As part of our commitment to invest in zero-carbon generation, we have either filed for or received approval to invest in 300 MW of utility-scale solar wit