Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 45 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 45 Item 2. Properties 47 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 48 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6. [Reserved] 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 75 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 76 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 116 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 116 Item 9B. Other Information 118 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 118 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 118 Item 11. Executive Compensation 118 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 118 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 118 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 118 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 119 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 125 Signature 126 PART I Item 1. Business General Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower , a real estate investment trust ( REIT ), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States ( U.S. ), Canada and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), consisting of seniors housing, post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available on the Internet at www.welltower.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only. Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. On March 7, 2022, we announced our intent to complete an UPREIT reorganization. In February 2022, the company formerly known as Welltower Inc. ("Old Welltower") formed WELL Merger Holdco Inc. ("New Welltower") as a wholly owned subsidiary, and New Welltower formed WELL Merger Holdco Sub Inc. ("Merger Sub") as a wholly owned subsidiary. On April 1, 2022, Merger Sub merged with and into Old Welltower, with Old Welltower continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of New Welltower (the "Merger"). In connection with the Merger, Old Welltower's name was changed to "Welltower OP Inc.", and New Welltower inherited the name "Welltower Inc." Effective May 24, 2022, Welltower OP Inc. ("Welltower OP") converted from a Delaware corporation into a Delaware limited liability company named Welltower OP LLC (the "LLC Conversion"). Following the LLC Conversion, New Welltower's business continues to be conducted through Welltower OP and New Welltower does not have substantial assets or liabilities, other than through its investment in Welltower OP. Welltower Inc. is the initial member and majority owner of Welltower OP, with an approximate ownership interest of 99.765% as of December 31, 2023. Welltower Inc. issues equity from time to time, the net proceeds of which it is obligated to contribute as additional capital to Welltower OP. All debt including credit facilities, senior notes and secured debt is incurred by Welltower OP or its subsidiaries, and Welltower Inc. has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all existing and future senior unsecured notes. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to "Welltower" mean Welltower Inc. and references to "Welltower OP" mean Welltower OP LLC. References to we, us, our or the company mean collectively Welltower, Welltower OP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Welltower and/or Welltower OP. Portfolio of Properties Please see Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Executive Summary Company Overview for a table that summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2023. Property Types We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and evaluate our business through three reportable segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. For additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of our various property types. Seniors Housing Operating Our Seniors Housing Operating properties include seniors apartments, independent living and independent supportive living, continuing care retirement communities, assisted living, Alzheimer's/dementia care and include care homes with or without nursing (U.K.), which assist with activities of daily living that preserve a person's mobility and social systems to promote cognitive engagement. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination properties that provide multiple levels of service and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. Properties are often held in joint venture entities with operating partners. We utilize the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a RIDEA structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008). Seniors Apartments Seniors apartments generally refer to age-restricted or age-targeted multi-unit housing with self-contained living units for older adults, usually aged 55+ who are able to care for themselves. Seniors apartments generally do not offer other additional services such as meals. 2 Independent Living and Independent Supportive Living (Canada) Independent living and independent supportive living generally refers to age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining that provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities. Continuing Care Retirement Communities Continuing care retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes and properties offering independent living, assisted living and/or long-term/post-acute care services on one campus. These communities appeal to residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. Assisted Living Assisted living refers to state-regulated rental properties that provide independent living services, but also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to, management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating. Alzheimer s/Dementia Care Alzheimer's/Dementia Care refers to state-regulated rental properties that generally provide assisted living and independent living services, but also provide supportive care to residents with memory loss, Alzheimer's disease and/or other types of dementia. Amenities vary, but may include enhanced security, specialized design features and memory-enhancing therapies that promote relaxation and help slow cognitive decline. Care Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.) Care homes without nursing, regulated by the Care Quality Commission ("CQC ), are rental properties that provide essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living. Care homes with nursing, also regulated by the CQC, are licensed daily rate or rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various national and local reimbursement programs. Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care. Our Seniors Housing Operating segment accounted for 72% , 72% and 68% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, we had relationships wit h 51 partners to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties. In each instance, our partner provides management services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management contract. We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these properties. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our relationship with Sunrise Senior Living ("Sunrise") accounted for approxima tely 17% o f our Seniors Housing Operating segment revenues and 12% of our total revenues. Triple-net Our Triple-net properties offer services including independent living and independent supportive living (Canada), assisted living, continuing care retirement communities, Alzheimer's/dementia care and care homes with or without nursing (U.K.) described above, as well as long-term/post-acute care. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term, triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. In addition, such triple-net master leases often require our tenants to fund a minimum amount related to capital expenditures. We are not involved in property management. Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities Post-acute care is at the leading edge of reducing health care costs while improving quality. These high-impact centers help patients recover from illness or surgery with the goals of getting the patient home and healed faster and reducing hospital readmission rates. Our long-term/post-acute care properties generally offer skilled nursing/post-acute care, inpatient rehabilitation and long-term acute care services. Skilled nursing/post-acute care refers to licensed daily rate or rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S. or provincial reimbursement in Canada. All properties offer some level of rehabilitation services. Some properties focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation. Inpatient rehabilitation properties provide intensive inpatient services after illness, injury or surgery to patients able to tolerate and benefit from three hours of rehabilitation per day. Long-term acute care properties provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care properties. Our Triple-net segment accounted for 16% , 16% a nd 19% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively . For the year ended December 31, 2023, our revenues related to our relationship with Integra Healthcare Properties ("Integra") accounted for approximately 21% of our Triple-net segment revenues and 3% of total revenues. In December 2022, ProMedica relinquished to Welltower its 15% interest in 147 skilled nursing facilities previously owned by the Welltower/ProMedica joint venture in exchange for a lease modification, which relieved ProMedica from its lease obligation on the 147 skilled nursing properties and amended the lease on the remaining 58 assisted living and memory care properties that continue to be held by the Welltower/ProMedica joint venture. The 58 assisted living and memory care assets continue to be 3 operated by ProMedica and backed by the existing guaranty. Concurrently, Welltower and Integra entered into master leases for the skilled nursing portfolio, which are subleased to a variety of regional operators to manage the properties. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 our revenues related to our relationship with Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") accounted for approximatel y 2% of o ur Triple-net segment revenues and less than 1% of our total revenues, compared to 6% of our Triple-net segment revenue and 1% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. In March 2021, we entered into definitive agreements to substantially exit our operating relationship with Genesis. As of December 31, 2023, our relationship with Genesis was comprised of one property owned 100% by us and leased to Genesis, a loan balance net of allowance for credit loss es of $191,105,000, approximately 9.5 million shares of GEN Series A common stock and a 25% ownership stake in an unconsolidated joint venture that includes two master leases for 28 properties operated by Genesis. Outpatient Medical Outpatient Medical Buildings Demand for outpatient medical services is growing as more procedures are performed safely and efficiently outside the hospital setting. State-of-the-art outpatient centers are needed in accessible, consumer-friendly locations. Our portfolio of outpatient medical buildings is an integral part of creating health care provider connectivity in local markets and generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Approximately 87% of our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (buildings directly on or adjacent to hospital campuses or with tenants that are satellite locations for the health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient medical buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property management. Our Outpatient Medical segment accounted for 11% , 12% and 13% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. No single tenant exceeds 20% of segment revenues. Investments Providing high-quality and affordable health care to an aging global population requires vast investments and infrastructure development. We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint venture partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Our portfolio creates opportunities to connect partners across the continuum of care and drive efficiency. We seek to diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor s/partner s management team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location; (6) the capital committed to the property by the obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry. We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs, and market conditions. Investment Types Real Property Our properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. Our triple-net properties are generally leased to operators under long-term operating leases. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion of which could result in the disposition of properties for less than full market value if the options were to be exercised. Most of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair and maintain the leased properties, and our leases often require the tenants to fund a minimum amount related to capital expenditures. Substantially all these operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. At December 31, 2023, approximately 97 % of our triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. We believe this bundling feature benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to better performing properties and terminate the leasing arrangement with respect to poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of 4 properties within the master lease. The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory contracts. In the context of integrated master leases such as ours, our tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis. Our Outpatient Medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists mainly of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our leases typically include increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of December 31, 2023, 62% of our portfolio included leases with full pass through, 31% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified gross) and 7% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical leases are non-cancellable operating leases that have a weighted-average remaining term of seven years at December 31, 2023 and are often credit enhanced by security deposits, guarantees and/or letters of credit. Construction We are party to agreements to develop or redevelop properties funded through capital that we and/or our joint venture partners provide. We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. The construction period commences once expenditures for the property have been made and activities necessary to get the property ready for its intended use are in progress and terminates when the applicable property is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. During the construction period, we advance funds in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of holding back a portion of the development fee, requiring a credit support for cost-overrun obligations and/or completion guarantees. As of December 31, 2023, we had outstanding construction investments of $1,304,441,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of approximately $ 966,829,000 to complete construction for consolidated investment properties. We also provide for construction loans which, depending on the terms and conditions, could be treated as loans or investments in unconsolidated entities. Loans Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees. Real estate loans consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in the related properties, corporate guarantees and/or personal guarantees. Non-real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. As of December 31, 2023, we had outstanding loans, net of allowances, of $1,691,706,000 with an interest yield of approximately 10.5% per annum. Our yield on loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The loans outstanding as of December 31, 2023 are generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the term. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but for which we can exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2023, we had investments in unconsolidated entities of $1,636,531,000 . Our investments in unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging from 10% to 95% in real estate assets. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of the investee s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded. In Substance Real Estate Additionally, we provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate. Under these arrangements, it is possible that we will participate in the expected residual profits of the project through the sale, refinancing or acquisition of the property. We evaluate the characteristics of each arrangement, including its risks and rewards, to determine whether they are more similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real estate. Arrangements with characteristics implying real estate joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments, accounted for using the equity method, and are presented as investments in unconsolidated entities. We have made loans related to 24 properties with a carrying value of $832,746,000 as of December 31, 2023, which are classified as in substance real estate investments. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles ( U.S. GAAP ) and include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 5 At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights ( variable interest entities or VIEs ) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity s activities without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810, "Consolidations", requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity s economic performance. For investments in joint ventures, U.S. GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s). We assess the limited partners rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies. Borrowing Policies We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility or issue commercial paper. We typically replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness. Competition We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies, finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including relationships, certainty of execution, investment structures and underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by economic and demographic trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and applicable laws and regulations. The operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered, family preferences (including a preference for home health services instead of residing in one of our communities), physicians, staff and price. We also face competition from other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities and services. For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see