Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2 Properties 27 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 31 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6 Reserved 33 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 47 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 80 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 80 Item 9B Other Information 80 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 80 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 81 Item 11 Executive Compensation 81 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 81 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 81 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 81 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 84 Signatures 85 WALMART INC. ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2022 All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on June 1, 2022 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Walmart Inc." and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries. PART I Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws. Nature of Forward-Looking Statements Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals. These forward-looking statements may relate to: the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods; the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our Walmart U.S. operating segment's eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, operating income, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store openings; investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed; our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, supply chain, store remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery; our workforce strategy; volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our or one of our segments' results of operations; the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases; our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases; cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs; the reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives; our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters; the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject; the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to environmental, sustainability, and governance ("ESG") priorities, including, but not limited to, the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives. Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make. The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," 4 "anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results. The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made. As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 5 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings. Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. Each week, we serve approximately 230 million customers who visit more than 10,500 stores and numerous eCommerce websites under 46 banners in 24 countries. Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become more digital, and make trust a competitive advantage. Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time. By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP"). EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers. Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club. Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations. We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022"), January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021") and January 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020"). During fiscal 2022, we generated total revenues of $572.8 billion, which was comprised primarily of net sales of $567.8 billion. We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT." The Development of Our Company The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market. In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2022, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 23 countries. In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com. Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow. In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. To date, we now have over 8,000 pickup and 6,000 delivery locations globally. In recent years, we have heavily invested in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, as well as made several eCommerce acquisitions to better serve our customers. These investments have enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, incubate digitally-native brands, and expand our assortment and service offerings. We have also continued to enhance our eCommerce initiatives internationally, such as with our acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"), which is our ecosystem in India that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart and Myntra as well as PhonePe, a digital transaction platform. We are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, service offerings, eCommerce websites and marketplaces as well as our supply chain combined with approximately 2.3 million associates as of January 31, 2022 to better serve our customers. Together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates relationships where customers view Walmart as their primary destination. In the U.S., our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members. As we execute on our strategy, our flywheel is accelerating through offerings such as our Walmart Connect advertising business, Walmart Fulfillment Services, our health and wellness business, including Walmart Health, and our financial services business. These offerings represent mutually reinforcing pieces of our flywheel centered around our customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience. 6 Information About Our Segments We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico. We also previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these divestitures. Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club, which are further described below. Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently. However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic information is contained in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Walmart U.S. Segment Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands. Walmart U.S. had net sales of $393.2 billion for fiscal 2022, representing 69% of our fiscal 2022 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $370.0 billion and $341.0 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income. Omni-channel. Walmart U.S. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, through services such as pickup and delivery, ship-from-store, and digital pharmacy fulfillment options. As of January 31, 2022, we had approximately 4,600 pickup locations and more than 3,500 same-day delivery locations. Our Walmart+ membership offering provides enhanced omni-channel shopping benefits that currently include unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel and pharmacy discounts, and mobile scan go for a streamlined in-store shopping experience. We have several eCommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com. We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated by customers digitally and fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and leveraging our stores. The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2022: Minimum Square Feet Maximum Square Feet Average Square Feet Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 221,000 105,000 Neighborhood markets (1) (grocery) 28,000 65,000 42,000 (1) Excludes other small formats. Merchandise. Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below: Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products; General merchandise includes: Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books); Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery); Apparel (e.g., apparel for men, women, girls, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts). Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, optical services and other clinical services. Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S. We also market lines of merchandise under our private brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works," "Bonobos Fielder," "Eloquii Elements," "Equate," "Free Assembly," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "onn.," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation." The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Avia," "Better Homes Gardens," "Pioneer Woman" and "Sofia Jeans by Sofia Vergara." 7 Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. The Walmart U.S. business also includes an in-house advertising offering via Walmart Connect, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers via Walmart Fulfillment Services, and access to quality, affordable healthcare via Walmart Health. In Fiscal 2022, Walmart U.S. initiatives also included the launch of a B2B last mile delivery service platform via Walmart GoLocal, and Walmart Luminate which provides a suite of data products to merchants and suppliers. Additional service offerings include fuel, financial services and related products (including through our digital channels, stores and clubs as well as our previously announced fintech joint venture), such as money orders, prepaid access, money transfers, check cashing, bill payment, and certain types of installment lending. Combined, these offerings do not currently represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues. Operations. Walmart U.S. is available to customers through supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help stores operate more efficiently, such as pickup and delivery, Walmart+, ship-from-store and other initiatives which provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences. Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31. Competition. Walmart U.S. competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, eCommerce retailers, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness, and financial services. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition. Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us. Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations. We employ many strategies and programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These strategies include the following: EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery and our Walmart+ membership offering, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served; and Expanding our flywheel and the products and services we offer in areas such as digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services. Distribution. We utilize a total of 157 distribution facilities which are located strategically throughout the U.S. For fiscal 2022, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through these facilities, while most of the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 31 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as leveraging our ability to ship or deliver directly from more than 3,500 stores. Walmart International Segment Walmart International is our second largest segment and operated in 23 countries outside of the U.S. as of January 31, 2022. Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, and China, and our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), India, as well as Mexico and Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). Walmart International previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of 8 Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recent divestitures. Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into two major categories: retail and wholesale. These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites. Walmart International had net sales of $101.0 billion for fiscal 2022, representing 18% of our fiscal 2022 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $121.4 billion and $120.1 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its format mix. Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates. We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth. As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years: Divestiture of Walmart Argentina in November 2020. Divestiture of Asda Group Limited ("Asda"), our retail operations in the U.K., in February 2021. Divestiture of a majority stake in Seiyu, our retail operations in Japan, in March 2021. Omni-channel. Walmart International provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through pickup and delivery services in most of our markets, our marketplaces such as Flipkart in India, and a digital transaction platform anchored in payments such as PhonePe in India. Same-day delivery capacity continues to expand in Mexico, including our recent launch of a membership model which provides unlimited same-day delivery from stores, and in China, our partnerships with JD.com and JD Daojia provide customers one-hour delivery by leveraging Walmart stores as fulfillment centers. A value-based internet and telephone service was recently launched in Mexico allowing customers to enjoy digital connectivity. Generally, retail units' selling areas range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores' selling areas generally range in size from 24,000 square feet to 158,000 square feet. As of January 31, 2022, Walmart International had approximately 2,900 pickup and over 1,900 delivery locations. Merchandise. The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items. Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Extra Special," "Lider," "Myntra," and "PhonePe." In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. Walmart International also offers advertising, financial services and related products in various markets. Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money transfers, and our PhonePe business in India provides a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising. Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues. Operations. The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help its various formats operate more efficiently, as well as to provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences. Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent. Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. Competition. Walmart International competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses. Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach. Additionally, our ability to o