ITEM 1. BUSINESS 6 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 25 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 36 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 36 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 36 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 37 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 38 ITEM 6. RESERVED ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 40 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 60 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 61 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 113 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 113 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 115 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 115 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 116 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 116 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 116 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 116 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 116 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 117 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 121 EX-4.1 DESCRIPTION OF REGISTRANT S SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 EX-21 LIST OF COMPANIES AND SUBSIDIARIES EX-23 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM EX-31.1 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) /15d-14(a) EX-31.2 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) /15d-14(a) EX-32.1 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT 3 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This is a Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This document may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as believes, expects, potential, continued, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, predicts, intends, plans, estimates, anticipates or the negative version of those words or other comparable words. Any forward-looking statements contained in this report including statements related to our outlook for the industry and for our performance for the year 2022 and beyond, are based upon our historical performance and on current plans, estimates and expectations. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans, estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. They are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: the cyclical nature of the property casualty industry; the impact of significant competition, including new entrants to the industry; the long-tail and potentially volatile nature of the insurance and reinsurance business; product demand and pricing; claims development and the process of estimating reserves; investment risks, including those of our portfolio of fixed maturity securities and investments in equity securities, including investments in financial institutions, municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, loans receivable, investment funds, including real estate, merger arbitrage, energy related and private equity investments; the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues; the uncertain nature of damage theories and loss amounts, including claims for cyber security related risks; natural and man-made catastrophic losses, including as a result of terrorist activities; the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; the impact of climate change, which may alter the frequency and increase the severity of catastrophe events; general economic and market activities, including inflation, interest rates and volatility in the credit and capital markets; the impact of conditions in the financial markets and the global economy, and the potential effect of legislative, regulatory, accounting or other initiatives taken in response to it, on our results and financial condition; foreign currency and political risks (including those associated with the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, or "Brexit") relating to our international operations; our ability to attract and retain key personnel and qualified employees; continued availability of capital and financing; the success of our new ventures or acquisitions and the availability of other opportunities; the availability of reinsurance; our retention under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019 ("TRIPRA"); the ability or willingness of our reinsurers to pay reinsurance recoverables owed to us; other legislative and regulatory developments, including those related to business practices in the insurance industry; credit risk relating to our policyholders, independent agents and brokers; changes in the ratings assigned to us or our insurance company subsidiaries by rating agencies; the availability of dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries; potential difficulties with technology and/or cyber security issues; the effectiveness of our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards; and other risks detailed in this Form 10-K and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). 4 We describe these risks and uncertainties in greater detail in Item 1A, Risk Factors. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results for the year 2022 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement we make. Any projections of growth in our revenues would not necessarily result in commensurate levels of earnings. Our future financial performance is dependent upon factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and our other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. 5 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS W. R. Berkley Corporation is an insurance holding company that is among the largest commercial lines writers in the United States and operates worldwide in two segments of the property casualty insurance business: Insurance - predominantly commercial insurance business, including excess and surplus lines, admitted lines and specialty personal lines throughout the United States, as well as insurance business in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Canada, Mexico, Scandinavia, Asia and Australia. Reinsurance Monoline Excess - reinsurance business on a facultative and treaty basis, primarily in the United States, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Australia, the Asia-Pacific region and South Africa, as well as operations that solely retain risk on an excess basis. Our two reporting segments are each composed of individual businesses that serve a market defined by geography, products, services or industry served. Each of our businesses is positioned close to its customer base and participates in a niche market requiring specialized knowledge. This strategy of decentralized operations allows each of our businesses to identify and respond quickly and effectively to changing market conditions and specific customer needs, while capitalizing on the benefits of centralized capital, investment and reinsurance management, and corporate actuarial, financial, enterprise risk management and legal staff support. Our business approach is focused on meeting the needs of our customers, maintaining a high quality balance sheet, and allocating capital to our best opportunities. New businesses are started when opportunities are identified and when the right talent and expertise are found to lead a business. Of our 56 businesses, 49 have been organized and developed internally and seven have been added through acquisition. Net premiums written, as reported based on United States generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), for each of our reporting segments for each of the past three years were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (In thousands) 2021 2020 2019 Net premiums written: Insurance $ 7,743,814 $ 6,347,101 $ 6,086,009 Reinsurance Monoline Excess 1,119,053 915,336 777,490 Total $ 8,862,867 $ 7,262,437 $ 6,863,499 Percentage of net premiums written: Insurance 87.4 % 87.4 % 88.7 % Reinsurance Monoline Excess 12.6 12.6 11.3 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Thirty of our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best") and have financial strength ratings of A+ (Superior) (the second highest rating out of 15 possible ratings). A.M. Best's ratings are based upon factors of concern to policyholders, insurance agents and brokers and are not directed toward the protection of investors. A.M. Best states: A Best's Financial Strength Rating (FSR) is an independent opinion of an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet its ongoing insurance policy and contract obligations. An FSR is not assigned to specific insurance policies or contracts and does not address any other risk. A.M. Best reviews its ratings on a periodic basis, and its ratings of the Company's subsidiaries are therefore subject to change. Our twenty-four insurance company subsidiaries rated by Standard Poor's ( S P ) have financial strength ratings of A + (the seventh highest rating out of twenty-seven possible ratings). Our Moody's financial strength ratings are A1 for Berkley Insurance Company, Berkley Regional Insurance Company and Admiral Insurance Company (the sixth highest rating out of twenty-one possible ratings). Our twenty-six insurance company subsidiaries rated by Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") have insurer financial strength ratings of A + (the seventh highest rating out of twenty-seven possible ratings). 6 The following sections describe our reporting segments and their businesses in greater detail. These businesses underwrite on behalf of one or more affiliated insurance companies within the group. The businesses are identified by us for descriptive purposes only and are not legal entities, but for marketing purposes may sometimes be referred to individually as "a Berkley company" or collectively as "Berkley companies." Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Form 10-K to Berkley, we, us, our, the Company or similar terms refer to W. R. Berkley Corporation together with its subsidiaries and businesses. W. R. Berkley Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed in 1970. Insurance Our U.S.-based businesses predominantly underwrite commercial insurance business primarily throughout the United States, although many units offer coverage globally, focusing on the following general areas: Excess Surplus Lines : A number of our businesses are dedicated to the U.S. excess and surplus lines market. They serve a diverse group of customers that often have complex risk or unique exposures that typically fall outside the underwriting guidelines of the standard insurance market. Lines of business underwritten by our excess and surplus lines businesses include premises operations, commercial automobile, property, products liability, general liability and professional liability lines. Products are generally distributed through wholesale agents and brokers. Industry Specialty : Certain other businesses focus on providing specialty coverages to customers within a particular industry that are best served by underwriters and claims professionals with specialized knowledge of that industry. They offer multiple lines of business with policies tailored to address these unique exposures, often with the flexibility of providing coverages on either an admitted or a non-admitted basis in the U.S., as well as internationally. Each business delivers its products through one or more distribution channels, including retail and wholesale agents, brokers, and managing general agents (MGAs), depending on the customer and the particular risks insured. Product Specialty : Other businesses specialize in providing specific lines of insurance coverage, such as workers compensation or professional liability, to a wide range of customers. They offer insurance products, analytical tools and risk management services such as loss control and claims management that enable clients to manage their risk appropriately. Business is typically written on an admitted basis, although some businesses may offer non-admitted products in the U.S. and offer products internationally. Independent agents and brokers are the primary means of distribution. Regional: Certain businesses offer standard insurance products and services focused on meeting the specific needs of a geographically differentiated customer base. Key clients are small-to-midsized businesses. These regionally focused businesses provide a broad array of commercial insurance products to customers primarily in 45 states and the District of Columbia and have developed expertise in niches that reflect local economies. They are organized geographically in order to provide them with the flexibility to adapt quickly to local market conditions and customer needs. In addition, through our non-U.S. insurance businesses, we write business in more than 60 countries worldwide, with branches or offices in 29 locations outside the United States, including the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Canada, Mexico, Scandinavia, Asia and Australia. In each of our operating territories, we have built decentralized structures that allow products and services to be tailored to each regional customer base. Our businesses are managed by teams of professionals with expertise in local markets and knowledge of regional environments. In addition to providing insurance products, certain businesses also provide a wide variety of fee-based services, including claims, administrative and consulting services. Businesses comprising the Insurance segment are as follows: Acadia Insurance is a Northeast regional property casualty underwriter offering a broad portfolio of products exclusively through local independent agents in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont. In addition to its general offerings, Acadia has specialized expertise in insuring regional industries such as construction, service contractors, lumber, and transportation. Admiral Insurance provides excess and surplus lines coverage for commercial risks that generally consist of hard-to- place, specialized risks that involve moderate to high degrees of hazard. In both general liability and professional lines, Admiral has a broad line of products to meet the needs of existing as well as emerging opportunities. The distribution of products is limited solely to wholesale brokers. Berkley Accident and Health underwrites accident and health insurance and reinsurance products in four primary areas: medical stop loss, managed care, special risk and group captive. It has a diversified product and service portfolio serving a range of clients from small employers, health care organizations, and membership groups to Fortune 500 companies. 7 Berkley Agribusiness offers insurance for larger commercial risks across the United States involved in the supply, storage, handling, processing and distribution of commodities related to the agriculture and food industries. Berkley Alliance Managers offers tailored insurance coverages and comprehensive risk management solutions designed to enhance profitability and reduce susceptibility to loss in four target markets - Design Professionals, Construction Professionals, Accounting Professionals and miscellaneous non-medical Service Professionals. Berkley Aspire provides excess and surplus lines coverage on a national basis to small to medium-sized insureds with low to moderate insurance risk. Its product lines include general liability, liquor liability and some property and inland marine coverage. It serves a limited distribution channel, including select Berkley member company agents. Berkley Asset Protection provides specialized insurance coverages for fine arts and jewelry exposures to commercial and individual clients. Berkley Canada underwrites specialty, casualty and surety lines of business on behalf of the Canadian branch of Berkley Insurance Company. It specializes in commercial casualty and professional liability, and offers a broad portfolio of risk products that include commercial general liability, umbrella, professional liability, directors and officers, commercial property and surety, in addition to niche products for specific industries such as technology, life sciences and travel. Berkley Construction Solutions provides excess liability coverage to residential and commercial contractors on a project or practice basis. Berkley Custom Insurance focuses on the excess casualty insurance market and offers umbrella and excess liability coverages to clients from the small/middle market to Fortune 1000 companies in target classes of business including construction, manufacturing, retail/wholesale trade, finance, real estate, public entities and oil gas. Berkley Cyber Risk Solutions focuses on insurance and risk management products that respond to the changing cyber security vulnerabilities of organizations around the world. It offers specialty commercial cyber insurance coverages on a worldwide basis to clients of all sizes. Berkley Entertainment underwrites property casualty insurance products, both on an admitted and non-admitted basis, for clients in the entertainment industry and sports-related organizations. Berkley Environmental underwrites casualty and specialty environmental products for environmental customers including contractors, consultants, property owners and facilities operators. Berkley Financial Specialists serves the insurance needs of companies in the financial services sector and beyond. Its Berkley Crime division provides crime and fidelity related insurance products for commercial organizations, financial sector businesses and governmental entities on a primary and excess basis. Its Financial Services segment provides management liability and fidelity products to financial institutions, insurance companies and asset management firms. Berkley Fire Marine offers a broad range of preferred inland marine and related property risks and services to customers throughout the United States. Products are distributed through independent agents and brokers. Berkley Global Product Recall Management provides worldwide insurance protection and technical assistance to help clients with the prevention, management and indemnification of product recall and contamination events. Berkley Healthcare underwrites customized, comprehensive insurance solutions for the full spectrum of healthcare providers. Through Berkley Healthcare Medical Professional, it offers a wide range of medical professional coverages. Through Berkley Healthcare Financial Lines, it offers a comprehensive suite of financial lines coverages. Berkley Human Services provides property casualty insurance coverages to human services organizations, including nonprofit and for-profit organizations, public schools, sports and recreational organizations, and special events. Its product offerings include traditional primary coverages and risk purchasing groups, as well as alternative market solutions for clients who wish to retain a larger share of their risks. Berkley Industrial specializes in writing workers' compensation insurance for diverse high hazard industries in select states. Its products are distributed by a select group of independent retail agents. Berkley Insurance Asia underwrites specialty commercial insurance coverages to clients in North Asia and Southeast Asia through offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, Labuan and Shanghai. Berkley Insurance Australia underwrites general insurance business in Australia, including professional indemnity insurance for companies of all sizes. 8 Berkley Latinoam rica is a leading provider of property, casualty, automobile, surety, group life and workers' compensation products and services in its operating territories of Argentina, Brazil, the Caribbean, Colombia, Mexico and Uruguay. Berkley Life Sciences offers a comprehensive spectrum of property casualty products to the life sciences industry on a global basis, including both primary and excess product liability coverages. It serves pharmaceutical and biotech companies, medical device companies, dietary supplement companies, medical and research related software developers, contract research and manufacturing organizations, research institutions and organizations, and other related businesses. Berkley Luxury Group provides commercial package insurance programs for high-end cooperative, condominium, and quality rental apartment buildings and upscale restaurants in the New York, New Jersey, Chicago and Washington, D.C. metropolitan markets, as well as other select markets. Berkley Management Protection offers a modular suite of management liability products for small and middle market companies through a bespoke and easy to use platform tailored towards independent agents. The management liability coverages they provide include directors and officers, employment practices, fiduciary, cyber, crime and miscellaneous professional liability. Berkley Mid-Atlantic Group provides commercial property casualty coverages to a wide variety of businesses in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. Focusing on small and middle market accounts, it complements its standard writings with specialized products in areas such as construction. Berkley Net Underwriters focuses on small and medium-sized commercial risks, using a web-based system to allow producers to quote, bind and service workers' compensation insurance products on behalf of Berkley member insurance companies. Berkley North Pacific offers preferred insurance products and services to a broad range of small to medium size commercial entities. It operates through independent agents in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah and Washington. Berkley Offshore Underwriting Managers is a specialist global underwriter of energy and marine risks. Its three divisions provide specialty insurance products in the energy upstream, energy liability and marine sectors. Berkley Oil Gas provides property casualty products and risk services to the United States energy sector. Its customer base includes risks of all sizes that work in the oil patch, including operators, drillers, geophysical contractors, well-servicing contractors, and manufacturers/distributors of oil field products, as well as those in the renewable energy sector. Berkley One provides a customizable suite of personal lines insurance solutions including home, condo/co-op, auto, liability and collectibles. Berkley One targets high net worth individuals and families with sophisticated risk management needs. Berkley Professional Liability specializes in professional liability insurance for publicly-traded and private entities on a worldwide basis. Its liability coverages include directors and officers, errors and omissions, fiduciary, employment practices, and sponsored insurance agents' errors and omissions. Berkley Transactional, a division of Berkley Professional Liability, underwrites a full suite of transactional insurance products, including representations and warranties insurance, tax opinion insurance and contingency liability insurance. Berkley Program Specialists is a program management company offering both admitted and non-admitted insurance support on a nationwide basis for commercial casualty and property program administrators with specialized insurance expertise. Its book is built around blocks of homogeneous business, or programs, allowing for efficient processes, effective oversight of existing programs and sound implementation of new programs. Berkley Public Entity specializes in providing excess coverage and services to individual governmental and scholastic entities and intergovernmental risk sharing groups. Products include general liability, automobile liability, law enforcement liability, public officials and educator's legal liability, employment practices liability, incidental medical, property and crime. Berkley Risk provides at-risk and alternative risk insurance program management services for a broad range of groups and individuals including public entity pools, professional associations, captives and self-insured clients. As a third party administrator, it manages workers compensation, liability and property claims nationwide. Berkley Select specializes in underwriting professional liability insurance for law firms and accounting firms, as well as other professional firms and their practices. It also offers executive liability products, including directors and officers liability, employment practices and fiduciary liability, to small to middle market privately held and not for profit customers. Berkley Select provides these insurance products on both an admitted and surplus lines basis. 9 Berkley Small Business Solutions offers commercial insurance products for small businesses through a modern technology platform that leverages data and analytics. Its initial product offering focuses on preferred risks in the non-fleet transportation market. Berkley Southeast offers a wide array of commercial lines products in six southeastern states: Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, specializing in small to mid-sized accounts. Berkley Surety provides a full spectrum of surety bonds for construction, environmental and commercial surety accounts in the U.S. and Canada, through an independent agency and broker platform across 20 field locations. Berkley Technology Underwriters provides a broad range of first and third-party insurance programs for technology exposures and technology industries on both a local and global basis. Carolina Casualty is a national provider of primary commercial insurance products and services to the transportation industry. It underwrites on an admitted basis in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Continental Western Group is a Midwest regional property and casualty insurance operation based in Des Moines, Iowa, providing underwriting and risk management services to a broad array of regional businesses in thirteen Midwest states. In addition to its generalist portfolio, Continental Western offers specialty underwriting solutions for diversified agriculture, construction, light manufacturing, transportation, volunteer fire departments, rural utilities and public entities. Gemini Transportation is a national provider of excess liability insurance for various domestic surface transportation businesses, including the railroad industry as well as the trucking, busing and other industries that use rubber-wheeled vehicles for over-the-road use. Intrepid Direct provides business insurance coverages through a direct distribution model focused on the franchise market, with specialties in the restaurant, garage and fitness industries. Key Risk specializes in writing workers' compensation insurance for diverse industries including healthcare, human services, transportation, temporary staffing, professional employer organizations and contractors requiring coverage under the United States Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (USL H). Its products are distributed by a select group of independent retail agents and wholesale brokers located throughout the United States. Nautilus Insurance Group insures excess and surplus lines risks for small to medium-sized commercial risks with low to moderate susceptibility to loss. It writes commercial excess and surplus lines business nationwide and admitted lines commercial business in a limited number of states. A substantial portion of Nautilus' business is written through its close, long-standing network of general agents, who are chosen on a highly selective basis. Preferred Employers Insurance focuses exclusively on workers' compensation products and services for businesses based in California. It serves thousands of customers covering a broad spectrum of industries throughout the state. Union Standard offers preferred commercial property and casualty insurance products and services to a wide range of small to medium size commercial entities with a focus on the construction, farm/ranch, retail and service industries. It operates through independent agents in Arizona, Arkansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. Vela Insurance Services specializes in commercial casualty insurance on an excess and surplus lines basis. Its primary focus is on general liability insurance for construction, manufacturing and general casualty clients as well as products liability and miscellaneous professional liability coverages distributed through wholesale insurance brokers. Verus Specialty Insurance offers general liability, professional liability and property coverages for small to mid-sized commercial risks in the excess and surplus lines insurance market through a select group of appointed wholesale brokers. W R B Europe is comprised of specialist operating units offering a focused range of insurance products to markets in Continental Europe. W / R / B Underwriting provides a broad range of leading insurance products to the Lloyd's marketplace, with a concentration in specialist classes of business including property, professional indemnity and crisis management. 10 The following t