Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Reserved 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 58 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 58 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 59 Item 11. Executive Compensation 59 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 59 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 59 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 59 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 60 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 62 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Williams-Sonoma, Inc., (the "Company , "we", or "us") incorporated in 1973, is an omni-channel specialty retailer of high-quality products for the home. In 1956, our founder, Chuck Williams, turned a passion for cooking and eating with friends into a small business with a big idea. He opened a store in Sonoma, California to sell the French cookware that intrigued him while visiting Europe but that could not be found in America. Chuck s business, which set a standard for customer service, took off and helped fuel a revolution in American cooking and entertaining that continues today. In the decades that followed, the quality of our products, our ability to identify new opportunities in the market and our people-first approach to business have facilitated our expansion beyond the kitchen into nearly every area of the home. Growth across our portfolio has been fueled by three areas of strategic investment: brand experimentation and innovation, for a best-in-class approach to omni-channel retail experiences; operational excellence across the enterprise, from quality product and sourcing, to efficient manufacturing and supply chain; and culture and corporate social responsibility, from commitments to foster women in leadership and embrace diversity, to a healthy impact on our community and environment. Williams-Sonoma, Inc. is the world s largest digital-first, design-led and sustainable home retailer. Our products represent distinct merchandise strategies Williams Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, Pottery Barn Teen, West Elm, Williams Sonoma Home, Rejuvenation, and Mark and Graham are marketed through e-commerce websites, direct-mail catalogs and retail stores. These brands are also part of The Key Rewards, our free-to-join loyalty program that offers members exclusive benefits across the Williams-Sonoma family of brands. We operate in the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom, offer international shipping to customers worldwide, and have unaffiliated franchisees that operate stores in the Middle East, the Philippines, Mexico, South Korea and India, as well as e-commerce websites in certain locations. We are also proud to be a leader in our industry with our Environmental, Social and Governance ( ESG ) efforts. Williams Sonoma From the beginning, our namesake brand, Williams Sonoma, has been bringing people together around food. A leading specialty retailer of high-quality products for the kitchen and home, the brand seeks to provide world-class service and an engaging customer experience. Williams Sonoma products include everything for cooking, dining and entertaining, including: cookware, tools, electrics, cutlery, tabletop and bar, outdoor, furniture and a vast library of cookbooks. The brand also includes Williams Sonoma Home, a premium concept that offers classic home furnishings and decorative accessories, extending the Williams Sonoma lifestyle beyond the kitchen into every room of the home. Pottery Barn Established in 1949 and acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 1986, Pottery Barn is a premier omni-channel home furnishings retailer. America s most meaningful, beautiful design source, Pottery Barn brings together good products, people and values seeking inspiration, quality, sustainability and service in everything we do. Thoughtfully designed and crafted to last, Pottery Barn s furniture, bedding, lighting, rugs, table essentials, decorative accessories and more can be loved for a lifetime. Pottery Barn Kids Kids are, and have always been, the inspiration behind what we do at Pottery Barn Kids. Since 1999, it s been our mission to bring the utmost in quality, sustainability, safety and style into every family s home. Most importantly, all our designs are rigorously tested to meet the highest child safety standards and expertly crafted from the best materials to last beyond their childhood years. West Elm Born in Brooklyn in 2002, West Elm is dedicated to transforming people s lives and spaces through creativity, style and purpose. West Elm creates unique, modern and affordable home decor and curates a global selection of local, ethically-sourced and Fair Trade Certified products, available online and in our stores worldwide. Pottery Barn Teen Launched in 2003, Pottery Barn Teen is the first home concept to focus exclusively on the teen market. Our purpose is to make safe and sustainable designs that inspire teens to create the world they want to live in. We re designing everything from organic bedding to multi-purpose furniture that adapts and lasts. Our mission is to create for the future. Rejuvenation Rejuvenation, founded in 1977 with a passion for timeless design and quality craftsmanship, was acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 2011. With design, manufacturing and distribution facilities in Portland, Oregon, Rejuvenation offers a wide assortment of made-to-order lighting, hardware, furniture and home d cor inspired by history, designed for today and made to last for years to come. 3 Table of Contents Mark and Graham Launched in 2012, Mark and Graham is designed to be a premier online destination for personalized gift buying. With hundreds of monograms and font types to choose from, a Mark and Graham purchase is uniquely personal. The brand s product lines include women s and men s accessories, travel, entertaining, bar, home d cor and seasonal items. Outward In 2017, we acquired Outward, Inc., a 3-D imaging and augmented reality platform for the home furnishings and d cor industry. Headquartered in San Jose, California, Outward s technology enables scalable applications in product visualization, digital room design and augmented and virtual reality. OPERATIONS As of January 30, 2022, we had the following merchandise strategies: Williams Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, Pottery Barn Teen, West Elm, Williams Sonoma Home, Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham, which sell our products through our e-commerce websites, direct-mail catalogs and retail stores. We offer shipping from many of our brands to countries worldwide, while our catalogs reach customers throughout the U.S. The e-commerce business complements the retail business by building brand awareness and acting as an effective advertising vehicle. We believe that our e-commerce websites and our direct-mail catalogs act as a cost-efficient means of testing market acceptance of new products and new brands. Leveraging these insights and our omni-channel positioning, our marketing efforts, including digital advertising and the circulation of catalogs, are targeted toward driving sales to each of our channels. Consistent with our published privacy policies, we send our catalogs to addresses from our proprietary customer list, as well as to addresses from lists of other mail order direct marketers, magazines and companies with which we establish a business relationship. In accordance with prevailing industry practice and our privacy policies, we may also rent our list to select mailers. Our customer mailings are continually updated to include new prospects and to eliminate non-responders. In addition, the retail business complements the e-commerce business by building brand awareness and attracting new customers to our brands. Our retail stores serve as billboards for our brands, which we believe inspires our customers to also shop online and through our catalogs. We operate 544 stores, which include 502 stores in 41 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico, 20 stores in Canada, 19 stores in Australia and 3 stores in the United Kingdom. We also have multi-year franchise agreements with third parties in the Middle East, the Philippines, Mexico, South Korea and India that currently operate 139 franchised locations as well as e-commerce websites in certain locations. SUPPLIERS We purchase most of our merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers and importers, the largest of which accounted for approximately 3% of our purchases during fiscal 2021. Approximately 65% of our merchandise purchases in fiscal 2021 were sourced from foreign vendors, predominantly in Asia and Europe. Substantially all of these purchases were negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. In addition, we manufacture merchandise, primarily upholstered furniture and lighting, at our facilities located in North Carolina, California, Oregon and Mississippi. The global supply chain experienced numerous challenges and disruptions during fiscal 2021, including material and labor shortages, port congestion and capacity constraints, which has had, and is continuing to have, wide-ranging effects across multiple industries, including ours. Refer to