Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B. Other Information 69 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Williams-Sonoma, Inc., incorporated in 1973, is a omni-channel specialty retailer of high quality products for the home. In 1956, our founder, Chuck Williams, turned a passion for cooking and eating with friends into a small business with a big idea. He opened a store in Sonoma, California, to sell the French cookware that intrigued him while visiting Europe but that could not be found in America. Chuck s business, which set a standard for customer service, took off and helped fuel a revolution in American cooking and entertaining that continues today. In the decades that followed, the quality of our products, our ability to identify new opportunities in the market and our people-first approach to business have facilitated our expansion beyond the kitchen into nearly every area of the home. Growth across the Williams-Sonoma, Inc. portfolio has been fueled by three areas of strategic investment: brand experimentation and innovation, for a best-in-class approach to omni-channel retail experiences; operational excellence across the enterprise, from quality product and sourcing, to efficient manufacturing and supply chain; and culture and corporate social responsibility, from commitments to foster women in leadership and embrace diversity, to a healthy impact on our community and environment. Today, Williams-Sonoma, Inc. is one of the United States largest e-commerce retailers with some of the best known and most beloved brands in home furnishings. We operate in the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom and offer international shipping to customers worldwide. Our unaffiliated franchisees operate stores in the Middle East, the Philippines, Mexico and South Korea, as well as e-commerce websites in certain locations. Williams Sonoma From the beginning, our namesake brand, Williams Sonoma, has been bringing people together around food. A leading specialty retailer of high-quality products for the kitchen and home, the brand seeks to provide world-class service and an engaging customer experience. Williams Sonoma products include everything for cooking, dining and entertaining, including: cookware, tools, electrics, cutlery, tabletop and bar, outdoor, furniture and a vast library of cookbooks. The brand also includes Williams Sonoma Home, a premium concept that offers classic home furnishings and decorative accessories, extending the Williams Sonoma lifestyle beyond the kitchen into every room of the home. Pottery Barn Established in 1949 and acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 1986, Pottery Barn is a premier omni-channel home furnishings retailer. The brand was founded on the idea that home furnishings should be exceptional in comfort, quality, style and value. Pottery Barn s stores, website, and catalogs are specially designed to make shopping an enjoyable experience, with inspirational lifestyle displays dedicated to every space in the home. Pottery Barn products include furniture, bedding, bathroom accessories, rugs, curtains, lighting, tabletop, outdoor and decorative accessories. Pottery Barn Kids Launched in 1999, Pottery Barn Kids serves as an inspirational destination for creating childhood memories by decorating nurseries, bedrooms and play spaces. Pottery Barn Kids offers exclusive, innovative and high-quality products designed specifically for creating magical spaces where children can play, laugh, learn and grow. West Elm Born in Brooklyn in 2002, West Elm is dedicated to transforming people s lives and spaces through creativity, style and purpose. West Elm creates unique, modern and affordable home decor and curate a global selection of local, ethically-sourced and Fair Trade Certified products, available online and in our stores worldwide. 3 Table of Contents Pottery Barn Teen Launched in 2003, Pottery Barn Teen is the first home concept to focus exclusively on the teen market. The brand offers a complete line of furniture, bedding, lighting, decorative accents and more for teen bedrooms, dorm rooms, study spaces and lounges. Pottery Barn Teen s innovative products are specifically designed to help teens create a comfortable and stylish room that reflects their own individual aesthetic. Rejuvenation Rejuvenation, founded in 1977 with a passion for timeless design and quality craftsmanship, was acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 2011. With design, manufacturing and distribution facilities in Portland, Oregon, Rejuvenation offers a wide assortment of made-to-order lighting, hardware, furniture and home d cor inspired by history, designed for today and made to last for years to come. Mark and Graham Launched in 2012, Mark and Graham is designed to be a premier online destination for personalized gift buying. With over 100 monograms and font types to choose from, a Mark and Graham purchase is uniquely personal. The brand s product lines include women s and men s accessories, small leather goods, jewelry, key item apparel, paper, entertaining and bar, home d cor and seasonal items. Outward In 2017, we acquired Outward, Inc., a 3-D imaging and augmented reality platform for the home furnishings and d cor industry. Headquartered in San Jose, California, Outward s technology enables scalable applications in product visualization, digital room design and augmented and virtual reality. OPERATIONS As of February 2, 2020, we had the following merchandise strategies: Williams Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, West Elm, Pottery Barn Teen, Williams Sonoma Home, Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham, which sell our products through our e-commerce websites, direct-mail catalogs and retail stores. We offer shipping from many of our brands to countries worldwide, while our catalogs reach customers throughout the U.S. The e-commerce business complements the retail business by building brand awareness and acting as an effective advertising vehicle. We believe that our e-commerce websites and our direct-mail catalogs act as a cost-efficient means of testing market acceptance of new products and new brands. Leveraging these insights and our omni-channel positioning, our marketing efforts, including digital advertising and the circulation of catalogs, are targeted toward driving sales to each of our channels. Consistent with our published privacy policies, we send our catalogs to addresses from our proprietary customer list, as well as to addresses from lists of other mail order direct marketers, magazines and companies with which we establish a business relationship. In accordance with prevailing industry practice and our privacy policies, we may also rent our list to select mailers. Our customer mailings are continually updated to include new prospects and to eliminate non-responders. In addition, the retail business complements the e-commerce business by building brand awareness and attracting new customers to our brands. Our retail stores serve as billboards for our brands, which we believe inspires our customers to also shop online and through our catalogs. We operate 614 stores, which include 572 stores in 43 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico, 20 stores in Canada, 19 stores in Australia and 3 stores in the United Kingdom. We also have multi-year franchise agreements with third parties in the Middle East, the Philippines, Mexico and South Korea that currently operate 129 franchised stores as well as e-commerce websites in certain locations. SUPPLIERS We purchase most of our merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers and importers, the largest of which accounted for approximately 2% of our purchases during fiscal 2019. Approximately 65% of our merchandise purchases in fiscal 2019 were sourced from foreign vendors, predominantly in Asia and Europe. Substantially all of these purchases were negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. In addition, we manufacture merchandise, primarily upholstered furniture and lighting, at our facilities located in North Carolina, California, Oregon and Mississippi. 4 Table of Contents COMPETITION AND SEASONALITY The specialty e-commerce and retail businesses are highly competitive. Our e-commerce websites, direct-mail catalogs and retail stores compete with other retailers, including e-commerce retailers, large department stores, discount retailers, other specialty retailers offering home-centered assortments and other direct-mail catalogs. The substantial sales growth in the direct-to-customer industry within the last decade, particularly in e-commerce, has encouraged the entry of many new competitors, including discount retailers selling similar products at reduced prices, new business models and an increase in competition from established companies. We compete on the basis of our brand authority, the quality of our merchandise, service to our customers, our proprietary customer list, our e-commerce websites and our marketing capabilities, as well as the location and appearance of our stores. We believe that we compare favorably with many of our current competitors with respect to some or all of these factors. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal variations in demand. Historically, a significant portion of our net revenues and net earnings have been realized during the period from October through January, and levels of net revenues and net earnings have typically been lower during the period from February through September. We believe this is the general pattern associated with the retail industry. In preparation for and during our holiday selling season, we hire a substantial number of additional temporary employees, primarily in our retail stores, customer care centers and distribution facilities, and incur significant fixed catalog production and mailing costs. EMPLOYEES As of February 2, 2020, we had approximately 27,000 employees, of whom approximately 11,600 were full-time. In preparation for and during our fiscal 2019 holiday selling season, we hired approximately 8,500 temporary employees, primarily in our retail stores, customer care centers and distribution facilities. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY As of February 2, 2020, we own and/or have applied to register 164 unique trademarks and service marks. We own and/or have applied to register our key brand names as trademarks in the U.S. as well as 121 additional jurisdictions. Generally, exclusive rights to the trademarks and service marks are held by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. and are used by our subsidiaries and franchisees under a license. These marks include our core brand names as well as brand names for selected products and services. The core brand names in particular, including Williams Sonoma, Pottery Barn, pottery barn kids, Pottery Barn Teen, west elm, Williams Sonoma Home, Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham are of material importance to us. Trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations can generally be renewed indefinitely so long as the marks are in use. We also own numerous copyrights and trade dress rights for our products, product packaging, catalogs, books, house publications, website designs and store designs, among other things, which are used by our subsidiaries and franchisees under a license. As of February 2, 2020, we own and/or have applied to register 277 patents in connection with certain product designs, inventions and proprietary technology. Patents are generally valid for 14 to 20 years as long as their registrations are properly maintained. In addition, we have registered and maintain numerous Internet domain names, including williams-sonoma.com, potterybarn.com, potterybarnkids.com, potterybarnteen.com, westelm.com, wshome.com, williams-sonomainc.com, rejuvenation.com and markandgraham.com. Collectively, the trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade dress rights and domain names that we hold are of material importance to us. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Williams-Sonoma, Inc. and other companies that file materials electronically with the SEC. Our annual reports, Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q, Forms 8-K and proxy and information statements are also available, free of charge, on our website at www.williams-sonomainc.com. 5 Table of Contents Investors and others should note that we announce material financial and operational information to our investors on our Investor Relations website (http://ir.williams-sonomainc.com), press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. Information on our website is not, and will not be deemed, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.