Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 28 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. Reserved 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 70 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 70 Item 9B. Other Information 70 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 70 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 71 Item 11. Executive Compensation 71 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 71 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 71 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 71 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 72 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 74 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Williams-Sonoma, Inc., (the "Company , "we", or "us") incorporated in 1973, is an omni-channel specialty retailer of high-quality products for the home. In 1956, our founder, Chuck Williams, turned a passion for cooking and eating with friends into a small business with a big idea. He opened a store in Sonoma, California to sell the French cookware that intrigued him while visiting Europe but that could not be found in America. Chuck s business, which set a standard for customer service, took off and helped fuel a revolution in American cooking and entertaining that continues today. In the decades that followed, the quality of our products, our ability to identify new opportunities in the market and our people-first approach to business have facilitated our expansion beyond the kitchen into nearly every area of the home. We are focused on three key priorities returning to growth, elevating our world-class customer service and driving earnings. Our growth will be driven by our business strategies in each of our core businesses, our business-to-business program, our emerging brands and our global business. We will continue to improve our world-class customer service by driving supply chain improvements from reduced out-of-market and multiple shipments, fewer customer accommodations, lower returns and damages, and reduced replacements. Additionally, we see opportunity to drive margin by focusing on full-price selling and cost negotiations. As it relates to other cost efficiencies, we expect to maintain our employment cost savings that we achieved this year, following our comprehensive review of our organization structure. We are the world's largest digital-first, design-led and sustainable home retailer. Our products in our portfolio of nine brands Williams Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, Pottery Barn Teen, West Elm, Williams Sonoma Home, Rejuvenation, Mark and Graham, and GreenRow are marketed through e-commerce websites, direct-mail catalogs and our retail stores. These brands are also part of The Key Rewards, our loyalty and credit card program that offers members exclusive benefits across the Williams-Sonoma family of brands. We operate in the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom, offer international shipping to customers worldwide, and have unaffiliated franchisees that operate stores in the Middle East, the Philippines, Mexico, South Korea and India, as well as e-commerce websites in certain locations. We are also proud to be a leader in our industry with our values-based culture and commitment to achieving our sustainability goals. Williams Sonoma From the beginning, our namesake brand, Williams Sonoma, has been bringing people together around food. A leading specialty retailer of high-quality products for the kitchen and home, the brand seeks to provide world-class service and an engaging customer experience. Williams Sonoma products include everything for cooking, dining and entertaining, including: cookware, tools, electrics, cutlery, tabletop and bar, outdoor, furniture and a vast library of cookbooks. The brand also includes Williams Sonoma Home, a premium concept that offers classic home furnishings and decorative accessories, extending the Williams Sonoma lifestyle beyond the kitchen into every room of the home. Pottery Barn Established in 1949 and acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 1986, Pottery Barn is a premier omni-channel home furnishings retailer. America s most meaningful, beautiful design source, Pottery Barn brings together good products, people and values seeking inspiration, quality, sustainability and service in everything we do. Thoughtfully designed and crafted to last, Pottery Barn s furniture, bedding, lighting, rugs, table essentials, decorative accessories and more can be loved for a lifetime. Pottery Barn Kids Kids are, and have always been, the inspiration behind what we do at Pottery Barn Kids. Since 1999, it s been our mission to bring the utmost in quality, sustainability, safety and style into every family s home. Most importantly, all our designs are rigorously tested to meet the highest child safety standards and expertly crafted from the best materials to last beyond their childhood years. 3 Table of Contents West Elm Born in Brooklyn in 2002, West Elm is dedicated to transforming people s spaces through creativity, style and purpose. West Elm creates unique, modern and affordable home d cor and curates a selection of goods that are crafted by makers from the across the world, with a focus on ethically-sourced and Fair Trade Certified products. The West Elm collection is available online and in our stores worldwide. Pottery Barn Teen Launched in 2003, Pottery Barn Teen is the first home concept to focus exclusively on the teen market. Our purpose is to make safe and sustainable designs that inspire teens to create the world they want to live in. We re designing everything from organic bedding to multi-purpose furniture that adapts and lasts. Our mission is to create for the future. Rejuvenation Rejuvenation, founded in 1977 with a passion for timeless design and quality craftsmanship, was acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 2011. With design, manufacturing and distribution facilities in Portland, Oregon, Rejuvenation offers a wide assortment of made-to-order lighting, hardware, furniture and home d cor inspired by history, designed for today and made to last for years to come. Mark and Graham Established in 2012, Mark and Graham is a leading monogrammed lifestyle brand that offers thoughtfully designed personalized products and custom gifts. The digitally-native brand is known for high quality collections, ranging from home gifts to luggage to handbags, designed in-house that can be personalized with more than 100 monograms. GreenRow GreenRow, established in 2023, is an internally designed and developed brand specializing in the use of sustainable materials and manufacturing practices to create colorful, vintage-inspired heirloom quality products. Every product in the digitally-native brand's assortment supports at least one of our social or environmental initiatives and prioritizes utilizing innovative, sustainable manufacturing practices with low-impact materials wherever possible including responsibly sourced linen, cotton, wood and recycled materials. Outward In 2017, we acquired Outward, Inc., a 3-D imaging and augmented reality platform for the home furnishings and d cor industry. Headquartered in San Jose, California, Outward s technology enables scalable applications in product visualization, digital room design and augmented and virtual reality. OPERATIONS As of January 28, 2024, we had the following merchandise strategies: Williams Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, Pottery Barn Teen, West Elm, Williams Sonoma Home, Rejuvenation, Mark and Graham, and GreenRow, which sell our products through our e-commerce websites, retail stores and direct-mail catalogs. We offer shipping from many of our brands to countries worldwide, while our catalogs reach customers throughout the U.S. The e-commerce and retail businesses complement each other by meeting the customers where they are; building brand awareness and acting as effective advertising vehicles. Our ability to leverage insights from both these channels, our omni-channel positioning and our marketing efforts, focused on digital advertising complemented by targeted catalogs, drive sales to each of our channels. Consistent with our published privacy policies, we leverage our proprietary customer file which is a unified view of customers across brands and channels, for digital, email, and catalog marketing purposes, augmented by our propensity to buy models developed by our in-house analytics team. Our retail stores serve as billboards for our brands, which we believe inspires new and existing customers to also shop online. We operate 518 stores, which include 480 stores in 40 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico, 19 stores in Canada, 17 stores in Australia and 2 stores in the United Kingdom. We also have multi-year franchise agreements with third parties in the Middle East, the Philippines, Mexico, South Korea and India that currently operate 138 franchised locations as well as e-commerce websites in certain locations. 4 Table of Contents SUPPLIERS We purchase most of our merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers and importers, the largest of which accounted for approximately 3% of our purchases during fiscal 2023. Approximately 81% of our merchandise purchases in fiscal 2023 were sourced from foreign suppliers, predominantly in Asia and Europe, with 25% of our merchandise purchases sourced from China. Substantially all of these purchases were negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. In addition, we manufacture merchandise, primarily upholstered furniture and lighting, at our facilities located in North Carolina, Oregon and Mississippi. The current macroeconomic environment is uncertain and we continued to incur increased costs across our global supply chain in the first half of fiscal 2023. Additionally, we are subject to risks that may disrupt our supply chain operations or regionalization efforts, such as increasing labor costs and union organizing activity. Despite these challenges, we believe our key differentiators, growth strategies and the efficiencies of our operating model to reduce costs and manage inventory levels leave us well-positioned to mitigate these costs in both the short- and long- term. Refer to