ITEM 1. BUSINESS 4 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 22 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 2 3 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 24 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 25 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 25 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 25 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 27 ITEM 6. RESERVED 28 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 29 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 42 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 44 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 88 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 88 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 89 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 89 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 89 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 89 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 90 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 91 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 91 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 91 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 96 SIGNATURES 97 PART I Unless otherwise indicated, or the context otherwise requires, references in this report to the Company, we, us, our and West refer to West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are our property, either directly or indirectly through our subsidiaries, unless noted otherwise. Daikyo Crystal Zenith ( Crystal Zenith ) is a registered trademark of Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. ( Daikyo ). Throughout this report, references to Notes refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ), unless otherwise indicated. Information in this Form 10-K is current as of February 20, 2024, unless otherwise specified. 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are a leading global manufacturer in the design and production of technologically advanced, high-quality, integrated containment and delivery systems for injectable drugs and healthcare products. Our products include a variety of primary proprietary packaging, containment solutions, reconstitution and transfer systems, and drug delivery systems, as well as contract manufacturing, analytical lab services and integrated solutions. Our customers include leading biologic, generic, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device companies in the world. Our top priority is delivering quality products that meet the exact product specifications and quality standards customers require and expect. This focus on quality includes a commitment to excellence in manufacturing, scientific and technical expertise and management, which enables us to partner with our customers in order to deliver safe, effective drug products to patients quickly and efficiently. Business Segments Our business operations are organized into two global business segments, Proprietary Products and Contract-Manufactured Products. Proprietary Products Segment Our Proprietary Products reportable segment offers proprietary packaging, containment solutions and drug delivery systems, along with analytical lab services and other integrated services and solutions, primarily to biologic, generic and pharmaceutical drug customers. Our packaging products include stoppers and seals for injectable packaging systems, which are designed to help ensure drug compatibility and stability with active drug products, while also supporting operational efficiency for customers. These packaging products also includes syringe and cartridge components, including custom solutions for the specific needs of injectable drug applications, as well as administration systems that can enhance the safe delivery of drugs through advanced reconstitution, mixing and transfer technologies. We also provide films, coatings, washing, vision inspection and sterilization processes and services to enhance the quality of our packaging products and mitigate the risk of contamination and compatibility issues. This segment s product portfolio also includes drug containment solutions, including Crystal Zenith, a cyclic olefin polymer, in the form of vials, syringes and cartridges. These products can provide a high-quality solution to glass incompatibility issues and can stand up to cold storage environments, while reducing the risk of breakage that exists with glass. In addition, we offer a variety of self-injection devices, designed to address the need to provide at-home delivery of injectable therapies. These devices are patient-centric technologies that are easy-to-use and can be combined with connected health technologies that have the potential to increase adherence. In addition to our Proprietary Products product portfolio, we provide our customers with a range of integrated solutions, including analytical lab services, pre-approval primary packaging support and engineering development, regulatory expertise, and after-sales technical support. Offering the combination of primary proprietary packaging components, containment solutions, and drug delivery devices, as well as a broad range of integrated services, helps to position us as a leader in the integrated containment and delivery of injectable medicines. This reportable segment has manufacturing facilities in North and South America, Europe, and Asia, with affiliated companies in Mexico and Japan. Please refer to Item 2, Properties , for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites. 4 Contract-Manufactured Products Segment Our Contract-Manufactured Products reportable segment serves as a fully integrated business, focused on the design, manufacture, and automated assembly of complex devices, primarily for pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device customers. These products include a variety of custom contract-manufacturing and assembly solutions, which use technologies such as multi-component molding, in-mold labeling, ultrasonic welding, clean room molding and device assembly. We manufacture customer-owned components and devices used in surgical, diagnostic, ophthalmic, injectable, and other drug delivery systems, as well as consumer products. We have vast expertise in product design and development, including in-house mold design, process design and validation and high-speed automated assemblies. This reportable segment has manufacturing operations in North America and Europe. Please refer to Item 2, Properties , for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites. International We have significant operations outside of the United States ( U.S. ), which are managed through the same business segments as our U.S. operations Proprietary Products and Contract-Manufactured Products. Sales outside of the U.S. accounted for 58.0% of our net sales in 2023. Although the general business processes are similar to the domestic business, international operations are exposed to additional risks. These risks include currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. Dollar ( USD ), multiple tax jurisdictions and, particularly in South America, Eastern Europe, Israel, China and the Middle East, uncertain or changing regulatory regimes, or political and social issues, which could destabilize local markets and affect the demand for our products. See further discussion of our international operations, the risks associated with our international operations, and our attempt to minimize some of these risks in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors ; Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources; Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk ; Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under the captions Financial Instruments and Foreign Currency Translation; and Note 11, Derivative Financial Instruments . Raw Materials We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers, aluminum and plastic. Elastomers include both synthetic and natural materials. We currently have access to adequate supplies of these raw materials to meet our production needs through agreements with suppliers. We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet customer requirements. In addition, some of our supply agreements require us to purchase inventory in bulk orders, which increases inventory levels but decreases the risk of supply interruption. We employ a supply chain management strategy in our business segments, which involves purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. Due to regulatory control over our production processes, sole source availability, and the cost and time involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many critical raw materials. We generally purchase certain raw materials in the open market and therefore the results of our operations may be affected by price fluctuations. This strategy increases the risk that our supply chain may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production or distribution problem. These risks are managed, when and where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites, rigorous quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of maintaining supply in case of an interruption in production or distribution. Heightened inflation may result in unfavorable conditions, inclusive of an increase in raw material cost. To date, we have been able to manage these conditions without significant disruption to our business. 5 While we work closely with our suppliers, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful, and there may be events that cause supply interruption, reduction or termination that adversely impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain products. See further discussion of the risks related to the supply chain and raw materials in