ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 7 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 15 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 15 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 16 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 16 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 16 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 18 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 20 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 21 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 35 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 38 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 85 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 85 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 86 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 86 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 86 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 86 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 87 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 88 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 88 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 89 SIGNATURES 90 EXHIBIT INDEX F- 1 2 PART I Unless otherwise indicated, or the context otherwise requires, references in this report to the Company , we , us , our and West refer to West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are our property, either directly or indirectly through our subsidiaries, unless noted otherwise. Daikyo Crystal Zenith ( Crystal Zenith ) is a registered trademark of Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. ( Daikyo ). Throughout this report, references to Notes refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ), unless otherwise indicated. Information in this Form 10-K is current as of February 21, 2020, unless otherwise specified. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are a leading global manufacturer in the design and production of technologically advanced, high-quality, integrated containment and delivery systems for injectable drugs and healthcare products. Our products include a variety of primary packaging, containment solutions, reconstitution and transfer systems, and drug delivery systems, as well as contract manufacturing, analytical lab services and integrated solutions. Our customers include the leading biologic, generic, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and additional medical device companies in the world. Our top priority is delivering quality products that meet the exact product specifications and quality standards customers require and expect. This focus on quality includes a commitment to excellence in manufacturing, scientific and technical expertise and management, and enables us to partner with our customers in order to deliver safe, effective drug products to patients quickly and efficiently. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on July 27, 1923. Business Segments Our business operations are organized into two reportable segments, Proprietary Products and Contract-Manufactured Products. Proprietary Products Segment Our Proprietary Products reportable segment offers proprietary packaging, containment and drug delivery products, along with analytical lab services and integrated solutions, primarily to biologic, generic and pharmaceutical drug customers. Our packaging products include stoppers and seals for injectable packaging systems, which are designed to help ensure drug compatibility and stability with active drug products, while also supporting operational efficiency for customers. This product portfolio also includes syringe and cartridge components, including custom solutions for the specific needs of injectable drug applications, as well as administration systems that can enhance the safe delivery of drugs through advanced reconstitution, mixing and transfer technologies. We also provide films, coatings, washing and sterilization processes and services to enhance the quality of packaging components and mitigate the risk of contamination and compatibility issues. This segment s product portfolio also includes drug containment solutions, including Crystal Zenith, a cyclic olefin polymer, in the form of vials, syringes and cartridges. These products can provide a high-quality solution to glass incompatibility issues and can stand up to cold storage environments, while reducing the risk of breakage that exists with glass. In addition, we offer a variety of self-injection devices, designed to address the need to provide at-home delivery of injectable therapies. These devices are patient-centric technologies that are easy-to-use and can be combined with connected health technologies that have the potential to increase adherence. 3 In addition to our Proprietary Products product portfolio, we provide our customers with a range of integrated solutions, including analytical lab services, pre-approval primary packaging support and engineering development, regulatory expertise, and after-sales technical support. Offering the combination of primary packaging components, containment solutions, and drug delivery devices, as well as a broad range of integrated services, helps to position us as a leader in the integrated containment and delivery of injectable medicines. This reportable segment has manufacturing facilities in North and South America, Europe, and Asia Pacific, with affiliated companies in Mexico and Japan. Please refer to Item 2, Properties , for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites. Contract-Manufactured Products Segment Our Contract-Manufactured Products reportable segment serves as a fully integrated business, focused on the design, manufacture, and automated assembly of complex devices, primarily for pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device customers. These products include a variety of custom contract-manufacturing and assembly solutions, which use such technologies as multi-component molding, in-mold labeling, ultrasonic welding, clean room molding and device assembly. We manufacture customer-owned components and devices used in surgical, diagnostic, ophthalmic, injectable, and other drug delivery systems, as well as consumer products. We have vast expertise in product design and development, including in-house mold design, process design and validation and high-speed automated assemblies. This reportable segment has manufacturing operations in North America and Europe. Please refer to Item 2, Properties , for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites. International We have significant operations outside of the United States ( U.S. ), which are managed through the same business segments as our U.S. operations Proprietary Products and Contract-Manufactured Products. Sales outside of the U.S. accounted for 55.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2019. Please refer to Item 2, Properties , for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites. Although the general business processes are similar to the domestic business, international operations are exposed to additional risks. These risks include currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. Dollar ( USD ), multiple tax jurisdictions and, particularly in South America, Israel and the Middle East, uncertain or changing regulatory regimes, or political and social issues, that could destabilize local markets and affect the demand for our products. See further discussion of our international operations, the risks associated with our international operations, and our attempt to minimize some of these risks in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors; Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources; Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk; Note 1 under the captions Financial Instruments and Foreign Currency Translation; and Note 11, Derivative Financial Instruments . Raw Materials We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers, aluminum and plastic. Elastomers include both natural and synthetic materials. We currently have access to adequate supplies of these raw materials to meet our production needs through agreements with suppliers. We employ a supply chain management strategy in our business segments, which involves purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. Due to regulatory control over our production processes, sole source availability, and the cost and time involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many critical raw materials. We generally purchase certain raw materials in the open market. This strategy increases the risk that our supply chain may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production or 4 distribution problem. These risks are managed, when and where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites, rigorous quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of maintaining supply in case of an interruption in production or distribution. Intellectual Property Intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and know-how, is important to our business. We own or license intellectual property rights, including issued patents and pending patent applications in the U.S. and in other countries, that relate to various aspects of our products. In 2019, more than 150 patents were issued to West across the globe. Some key value-added and proprietary products and processes are licensed from Daikyo. Our intellectual property rights have been useful in establishing our market position and in the growth of our business, and are expected to continue to be of value in the future. Seasonality Our business is not inherently seasonal. Working Capital We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet customer requirements. In addition, some of our supply agreements require us to purchase inventory in bulk orders, which increases inventory levels but decreases the risk of supply interruption. For a more detailed discussion of working capital, please refer to the discussion in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resource s. Marketing Our Proprietary Products customers primarily include many of the major biologic, generic, and pharmaceutical drug companies in the world, which incorporate our components and other offerings into their injectable products for distribution to the point of care and ultimate end-user - the patient. Our Contract-Manufactured Products customers include many of the world s largest pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device companies. Contract-Manufactured Products components generally are incorporated into our customers manufacturing lines for further processing or assembly. Our products and services are sold and distributed primarily through our own sales force and distribution network, with limited use of contract sales agents and regional distributors. Our ten largest customers accounted for 44.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, but none of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales. Please refer to Note 3, Revenue , and Note 19, Segment Information , for additional information on our consolidated net sales. Order Backlog Order backlog includes firm orders placed by customers for manufacture over a period of time according to their schedule or upon confirmation by the customer. We also have contractual arrangements with a number of our customers. Products covered by these contracts are included in our backlog only as orders are received. Order backlog may be positively or negatively impacted by several factors, including customer ordering patterns and the necessary lead-time to deliver customer orders. Order backlog is one of many measures we use to understand future demand, and should not be considered in isolation to predict future sales growth. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the order backlog for Proprietary Products was $587.9 million and $407.3 million, respectively. The increase in backlog primarily reflects increases in demand for our products due to several successful customer launches in 2019 and expansion of current customer programs due to the success of their drug 5 products. The majority of the order backlog for Proprietary Products at December 31, 2019 is expected to be filled during 2020. The majority of Contract-Manufactured Products manufacturing activity is governed by contractual volume expectations, subject to periodic revisions based on customer requirements. Competition With our range of proprietary technologies, we compete with several companies across our Proprietary Products product lines. Due to the special nature of our pharmaceutical packaging components and our long-standing participation in the market, competition for these components is based primarily on product design and performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across their operations. In addition, there are a number of competitors supplying medical devices and medical device components, including a number of pharmaceutical manufacturers who are also potential customers of our medical devices. We compete in this market on the basis of our reputation for quality and reliability in engineering and project management, as well as our knowledge of, and experience in, compliance with regulatory requirements. We have specialized knowledge of container closure components, which is integral to developing delivery systems. With our range of proprietary technologies, we compete with new and established companies in the area of drug delivery devices, including suppliers of prefillable syringes, auto-injectors, safety needles, and other proprietary systems. We seek to differentiate ourselves from our competition by serving as an integrated drug containment and delivery systems global supplier that can provide pre-approval primary packaging support and engineering development, analytical lab services and integrated solutions, regulatory expertise, and after-sale technical support. Customers also appreciate the global scope of our manufacturing capability and our ability to produce many products at multiple sites. Our Contract-Manufactured Products business operates in very competitive markets for its products. The competition varies from smaller regional companies to large global assembly manufacturers. Given the cost pressures they face, many of our customers look to reduce costs by sourcing from low-cost locations. We seek to differentiate ourselves by leveraging our global capabilities and by employing new technologies such as high-speed automated assembly, insert-molding, multi-shot precision molding, and expertise with multiple-piece closure systems. Research and Development Activities We maintain our own research-scale production facilities and laboratories for developing new products, and offer contract engineering design and development services to assist customers with new product development. Our quality control, regulatory and laboratory testing capabilities are used to ensure compliance with applicable manufacturing and regulatory standards for primary and secondary pharmaceutical packaging components and delivery systems. Commercial development of our new products and services for medical and pharmaceutical applications commonly requires several years. New products that we develop may require separate approval as medical devices, and products that are intended to be used in the packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical products are subject to both customer acceptance of our products and regulatory approval of the customer s products following our development period. We continue to pursue innovative strategic platforms in prefillable syringes, injectable containers, advanced injection, and safety and administration systems. 6 We also continue to seek new innovative opportunities for acquisition, licensing, partnering or development of products, services and technologies that serve the injectable drug containment and delivery market. Environmental Regulations We are subject to various national, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There were no required material capital expenditures for environmental controls in our facilities in 2019 and there are currently no needed or planned material expenditures for 2020. Employees As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 8,200 people in our operations throughout the world. Available Information We maintain a website at www.westpharma.com . Our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) are available on our website under the Investors - SEC Filings caption as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). These filings are also available to the public over the Internet at the SEC s website at www.sec.gov . Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from parts of other documents filed with the SEC and from our Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders ( 2020 Proxy Statement ), which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of our 2019 fiscal year. Our 2020 Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 31, 2020, under the caption Investors - Annual Reports Proxy . Information about our corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct, as well as information about our Directors, Board Committees, Committee Charters, and instructions on how to contact the Board, is available on our website under the Investors - Corporate Governance heading. We intend to make any required disclosures regarding any amendments of our Code of Business Conduct or waivers granted to any of our directors or executive officers under the caption Code of Business Conduct on our website. Information relating to the West Pharmaceutical Services Dividend Reinvestment Plan is also available on our website under the Investors - Transfer Agent/Dividend Reinvestment caption. Information on our website does not constitute part of this document. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., 530 Herman O. West Drive, Exton, PA 19341.