Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 16 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 40 Item 1C Cybersecurity 40 Item 2 Properties 41 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 41 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 41 PART II. Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6 [RESERVED] 45 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 46 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 67 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 70 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 123 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 123 Item 9B Other Information 125 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 126 PART III. Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 127 Item 11 Executive Compensation 127 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 127 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 127 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 127 PART IV. Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 128 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 134 Signatures 135 Certain De finitions The following definitions apply throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K unless the context requires otherwise: We , Us , Company , WTW , Willis Towers Watson , Our , or Willis Towers Watson plc Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, a company organized under the laws of Ireland, and its subsidiaries shares The ordinary shares of Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, nominal value $0.000304635 per share Legacy Willis or Willis Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company and its subsidiaries, predecessor to WTW, prior to the Merger Legacy Towers Watson or Towers Watson Towers Watson Co. and its subsidiaries Merger Merger of Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company and Towers Watson Co. pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated June 29, 2015, as amended on November 19, 2015, and completed on January 4, 2016 Miller Miller Insurance Services LLP and its subsidiaries TRANZACT CD R TZ Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, doing business as TRANZACT U.S. United States U.K. United Kingdom Brexit The United Kingdom s exit from the European Union, which occurred on January 31, 2020. E.U. European Union or European Union 27 (the number of member countries following the United Kingdom s exit) U.S. GAAP United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission EBITDA Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization 1 Disclaimer Regarding For ward-looking Statements We have included in this document forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created by those laws. These forward-looking statements include information about possible or assumed future results of our operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future, including such things as: our outlook; the potential impact of natural or man-made disasters like health pandemics and other world health crises; future capital expenditures; ongoing working capital efforts; future share repurchases; financial results (including our revenue, costs or margins) and the impact of changes to tax laws on our financial results; existing and evolving business strategies and acquisitions and dispositions, including our completed sale of Willis Re to Arthur J. Gallagher Co. ( Gallagher ) and transitional arrangements related thereto; demand for our services and competitive strengths; strategic goals; the benefits of new initiatives; growth of our business and operations; the sustained health of our product, service, transaction, client, and talent assessment and management pipelines; our ability to successfully manage ongoing leadership, organizational and technology changes, including investments in improving systems and processes; our ability to implement and realize anticipated benefits of any cost-savings initiatives including the multi-year operational Transformation program; our recognition of future impairment charges; and plans and references to future successes, including our future financial and operating results, short-term and long-term financial goals, plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, including with respect to free cash flow generation, adjusted net revenue, adjusted operating margin and adjusted earnings per share, are forward-looking statements. Also, when we use words such as may , will , would , anticipate , believe , estimate , expect , intend , plan , continues , seek , target , goal , focus , probably , or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the Company s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking disclosure is speculative by its nature. A number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results reflected in these forward-looking statements are identified under Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are based on assumptions that may not come true and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying our forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of these assumptions, and therefore also the forward-looking statements based on these assumptions, could themselves prove to be inaccurate. Given the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our inclusion of this information is not a representation or guarantee by us that our objectives and plans will be achieved. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and we will not update these forward-looking statements unless the securities laws require us to do so. With regard to these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may not occur, and we caution you against unduly relying on these forward-looking statements. 2 PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company WTW is a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company that provides data-driven, insight-led solutions in the areas of people, risk and capital. Utilizing the global view and local expertise of our 48,000 colleagues serving more than 140 countries and markets, we help organizations sharpen strategies, enhance resilience, motivate workforces and maximize performance. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent and expand the power of capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. Working closely with our clients, we uncover opportunities for sustainable success. Our clients operate on a global and local scale in a multitude of businesses and industries throughout the world and generally range in size from large, major multinational corporations to middle-market domestic and international companies. Our clients include many of the world s leading corporations, including approximately 95% of the FTSE 100, 89% of the Fortune 1000, and 91% of the Fortune Global 500 companies. We also advise the majority of the world s leading insurance companies. We work with major corporations, emerging growth companies, governmental agencies and not-for-profit institutions in a wide variety of industries, with many of our client relationships spanning decades. None of the Company s customers individually represented more than 10% of its consolidated revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. We place insurance with more than 2,500 insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for a significant concentration of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2023, 2022 or 2021. Available Information The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers (including WTW) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC s website is www.sec.gov. The Company makes available, free of charge through our website, www.wtwco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our proxy statement, current reports on Form 8-K and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and Section 16 officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company s Memorandum and Articles of Association, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit and Risk Committee Charter, Operational Transformation Committee Charter, Human Capital and Compensation Committee Charter, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter are available on our website, www.wtwco.com, in the Investor Relations section, or upon request. Requests for copies of these documents should be directed in writing to the Company Secretary c/o Office of General Counsel, Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10281. General Information WTW offers its clients a broad range of services and solutions to help them to identify and control their risks, and to enhance business performance by improving their ability to attract, retain and engage a talented workforce. Our risk control services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analysis) to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting), as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and climate risk quantification). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We help our clients enhance their business performance by delivering consulting services, technology and solutions that help them anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging opportunities in human capital management, as well as offer investment advice to help them develop disciplined and efficient strategies to meet their investment goals. As an insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping them to determine the best means of managing risk and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network. We operate a private Medicare marketplace in the U.S. through which, along with our active employee marketplace, we help our clients move to a more sustainable economic model by capping and controlling the costs associated with healthcare benefits. We also provide direct-to-consumer sales of Medicare coverage. 3 We are not an insurance company, and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account. We help sharpen strategies, enhance organizational resilience, motivate workforces and maximize performance to uncover opportunities for sustainable success. We derive the majority of our revenue from either commissions or fees for brokerage or consulting services. We do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels as they are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in these premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations. Our fees for consulting services are spread across a variety of complementary businesses that generally remain steady during times of uncertainty. We have some businesses, such as our health and benefits and administration businesses, which can be counter cyclical during the early period of a significant economic change. Business Strategy We believe that a unified and integrated approach to advisory, broking and solutions can be a path to growth for organizations around the world. We harness our collective power as One WTW to make smart connections to serve and support our clients. We operate in attractive markets both growing and mature with a diversified platform across industries, segments and businesses globally. Our vision is to be the best advisory, broking and solutions company for the benefit of all our stakeholders creating a competitive advantage and delivering sustainable, profitable growth. We believe we can achieve this through executing on our three strategic priorities grow, simplify and transform: Grow at or above market in priority areas : Focus on core opportunities with the highest growth and return; innovate and accelerate our offerings through a dynamic, yet disciplined, approach; bring targeted solutions to clients reflecting more connected offerings; and increase scale to fill gaps in capabilities through inorganic expansion. Simplify the business to increase agility and effectiveness : Implement the Company s streamlined structure of two business segments (Health, Wealth Career and Risk Broking) and three geographies (Europe, International and North America); develop a globally consistent client management model and enhance operations to improve sales and retention outcomes; manage our portfolio of businesses intentionally to drive optimal value; and increase speed of execution through agile decision-making processes. Transform operations to drive savings while enhancing our client and colleague experiences : Maximize global platforms to be as common as possible and as distinct as necessary; right-shore operations to capitalize on our scale; rationalize real estate and build new ways of working; and modernize technology to enhance the digital experience. Through these strategies we aim to grow revenue, improve margins and increase cash flow, EBITDA and earnings. We care as much about how we work as we do about the impact that we make. This means commitment to a shared purpose and values, a framework that guides how we run our business and serve clients. Our values of client focus, teamwork, integrity, respect and excellence underlie all that we do, and how we behave and interact with each other, our clients and our partners. For more information about risks to our strategic plans, see Part I,