Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2 Properties 30 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II. Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 Selected Consolidated Financial Data 35 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 137 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 137 Item 9B Other Information 140 PART III. Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 141 Item 11 Executive Compensation 141 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 141 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 141 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 141 PART IV. Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 142 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 146 Signatures 147 Certain Definitions The following definitions apply throughout this annual report unless the context requires otherwise: We , Us , Company , Willis Towers Watson , Our , Willis Towers Watson plc or WTW Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, a company organized under the laws of Ireland, and its subsidiaries shares The ordinary shares of Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, nominal value $0.000304635 per share Legacy Willis or Willis Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company and its subsidiaries, predecessor to Willis Towers Watson, prior to the Merger Legacy Towers Watson or Towers Watson Towers Watson Co. and its subsidiaries Merger Merger of Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company and Towers Watson Co. pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated June 29, 2015, as amended on November 19, 2015, and completed on January 4, 2016 Gras Savoye GS Cie Groupe SAS Miller Miller Insurance Services LLP and its subsidiaries TRANZACT CD R TZ Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, doing business as TRANZACT U.S. United States U.K. United Kingdom Brexit The United Kingdom s exit from the European Union, which occurred on January 31, 2020. E.U. European Union or European Union 27 (the number of member countries following the United Kingdom s exit) U.S. GAAP United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board ASU Accounting Standards Update ASC Accounting Standards Codification SEC Securities and Exchange Commission 1 Disclaimer Regarding Forward-looking Statements We have included in this document forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created by those laws. These forward-looking statements include information about possible or assumed future results of our operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future, including such things as our outlook, future capital expenditures, ongoing working capital efforts, future share repurchases, growth in revenue, the impact of changes to tax laws on our financial results, existing and evolving business strategies and planned acquisitions (including the acquisition of TRANZACT and our proposed acquisition of Unity Group) and dispositions, demand for our services and competitive strengths, goals, the benefits of new initiatives, growth of our business and operations, our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational and technology changes, including investments in improving systems and processes, our ability to meet our financial guidance, and plans and references to future successes, including our future financial and operating results, objectives, expectations and intentions are forward-looking statements. Also, when we use words such as may, will, would, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, probably, or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the Company s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking disclosure is speculative by its nature. A number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results reflected in these forward-looking statements are identified under Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are based on assumptions that may not come true and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying our forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of these assumptions, and therefore also the forward-looking statements based on these assumptions, could themselves prove to be inaccurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our inclusion of this information is not a representation or guarantee by us that our objectives and plans will be achieved. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and we will not update these forward-looking statements unless the securities laws require us to do so. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may not occur, and we caution you against unduly relying on these forward-looking statements. 2 PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company Willis Towers Watson is a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company that helps clients around the world turn risk into a path for growth. Willis Towers Watson has more than 45,000 employees and services clients in more than 140 countries. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent and expand the power of capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. We believe our unique perspective allows us to see the critical intersections between talent, assets and ideas - the dynamic formula that drives business performance. We trace our history to 1828, and are a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company that helps clients around the world turn risk into a path for growth. We provide a comprehensive offering of services and solutions to clients across four business segments: Human Capital and Benefits Corporate Risk and Broking Investment, Risk and Reinsurance and Benefits Delivery and Administration. Our clients operate on a global and local scale in a multitude of businesses and industries throughout the world and generally range in size from large, major multinational corporations to middle-market domestic and international companies. Our clients include many of the world s leading corporations, including approximately 94% of the FTSE 100, 91% of the Fortune 1000, and 93% of the Fortune Global 500 companies. We also advise the majority of the world s leading insurance companies. We work with major corporations, emerging growth companies, governmental agencies and not-for-profit institutions in a wide variety of industries, with many of our client relationships spanning decades. No one client accounted for a significant concentration of revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. We place insurance with more than 2,500 insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for a significant concentration of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2019, 2018 or 2017. Available Information The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers (including Willis Towers Watson) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC s website is www.sec.gov. The Company makes available, free of charge through our website, www.willistowerswatson.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our proxy statement, current reports on Form 8-K and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Risk Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, and Corporate Governance Nominating Committee Charter are available on our website, www.willistowerswatson.com, in the Investor Relations section, or upon request. Requests for copies of these documents should be directed in writing to the Company Secretary c/o Office of General Counsel, Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10281. General Information Willis Towers Watson offers its clients a broad range of services to help them to identify and control their risks, and to enhance business performance by improving their ability to attract, retain and engage a talented workforce. Our risk control services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analysis), to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting), as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and reinsurance optimization studies). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We help our clients enhance their business performance by delivering consulting services, technology and solutions that help them anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging opportunities in human capital management, as well as offer investment advice to help them develop disciplined and efficient strategies to meet their investment goals. As an insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping them to determine the best means of managing risk and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network. We operate a private Medicare exchange in the U.S. Through this exchange and those for active employees, we help our clients move to a more sustainable economic model by capping and controlling the costs associated with healthcare benefits. 3 We are not an insurance company, and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account. We derive the majority of our revenue from either commissions or fees for brokerage or consulting services. We do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels as they are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in these premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations. Our fees for consulting services are spread across a variety of complementary businesses that generally remain steady during times of uncertainty. We have some businesses, such as our health and benefits and administration businesses, which can be counter cyclical during the early period of a significant economic change. We believe we are one of only a few global advisory, broking and solutions companies in the world possessing the global operating presence, broad product expertise and extensive distribution network necessary to effectively meet the global needs of many of our clients. Business Strategy Willis Towers Watson is in the business of people, risk and capital. We believe that a unified approach to these areas can be a path to growth for our clients. Our integrated teams bring together our understanding of risk strategies and market analytics. This helps clients around the world to achieve their objectives. We operate in attractive markets both growing and mature with a diversified platform across geographies, industries, segments and lines of business. We aim to be the premier advisory, broking and solutions company, creating a competitive advantage and delivering sustainable growth. We believe we can achieve this by: Driving profitable organic growth in our current core businesses and geographies each has a role to play in Willis Towers Watson s success Delivering a winning client experience we are committed to always bringing the best of Willis Towers Watson to our clients with a consistent standard across all of our businesses and geographies and Investing both organically and inorganically with a focus on the most attractive markets for growth or where we can achieve a sustainable competitive advantage, including adjacencies, innovation and inorganic opportunities. We care as much about how we work as we do about the impact that we make. This means commitment to shared values, a framework that guides how we run our business and serve clients. Through these strategies we aim to accelerate revenue, cash flow, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ), and earnings growth, and generate compelling returns for investors, by delivering tangible growth in revenue. Principal Services We manage our business across four integrated reportable operating segments: Human Capital and Benefits Corporate Risk and Broking Investment, Risk and Reinsurance and Benefits Delivery and Administration. Below are the percentages of revenue generated by each segment for each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. Year ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Human Capital and Benefits 37 % 38 % 39 % Corporate Risk and Broking 33 % 34 % 34 % Investment, Risk and Reinsurance 18 % 19 % 18 % Benefits Delivery and Administration 12 % 9 % 9 % 4 The number of employees by segment as of the year ended December 31, 2019 is approximated below: December 31, 2019 Human Capital and Benefits 15,000 Corporate Risk and Broking 13,500 Investment, Risk and Reinsurance 4,100 Benefits Delivery and Administration 6,100 Corporate and Other 7,900 Total Employees 46,600 Human Capital and Benefits The Willis Towers Watson Human Capital Benefits ( HCB ) segment provides an array of advice, broking, solutions and software for employee benefit plans, the human resources ( HR ) organizations and management teams of our clients. HCB is the largest segment of the Company. Organized into four primary offerings - Retirement Health Benefits Talent Rewards and Technology and Administration Solutions, the segment is focused on addressing our clients people and risk needs to help them take on the challenges of operating in a global marketplace. HCB is strengthened with teams of international consultants that provide support in each of these areas to the global headquarters of multinational clients and their foreign subsidiaries. Retirement The Retirement business provides actuarial support, plan design, and administrative services for traditional pension and retirement savings plans. Our colleagues help our clients assess the costs and risks of retirement plans on cash flow, earnings and the balance sheet, the effects of changing workforce demographics on their retirement plans, and retiree benefit adequacy and security. We offer clients a full range of integrated retirement consulting services to meet the needs of all types of employers, including those that continue to offer defined benefit plans and those that are reexamining their retirement benefit strategies. We bring a particular in-depth data analysis and perspective to their decision process, because we have tracked the retirement designs of the largest public companies around the world over many years. For clients that want to outsource some or all of their pension plan management, we offer integrated solutions that combine investment consulting, pension administration, core actuarial services, and communication and change management assistance. Our retirement consulting relationships are generally long-term in nature, and client retention rates for this business are high. A significant portion of the revenue in this business is from recurring work, with multi-year contracts that are driven by the heavily regulated nature of employee benefit plans and our clients annual needs for these services. Revenue for the Retirement business is somewhat seasonal, as much of our work pertains to calendar-year plan administration and reporting and compliance related to the completion of pension plan valuations thus, the first quarter of the fiscal year is typically Retirement s strongest quarter. Major revenue growth drivers in this business include changes in regulations, capital market conditions, increased global demand and increased market share. Health and Benefits The Health Benefits ( H B ) business provides plan management consulting, broking and administration across the full spectrum of health and group benefit programs, including medical, dental, disability, life and other coverage. Our H B reach extends from small/mid-market clients to large market clients, across the full geographic footprint of the Company, and to most industries. We can address our clients insured needs in more than 140 countries. Our consultants help clients make strategic decisions on topics such as optimizing program spend evaluating emerging coverage options (including publicly-subsidized health insurance exchanges and private exchanges in the U.S.) and dealing with above-inflation-rate increases in healthcare costs. In addition to our consulting services, we manage a number of collective purchasing initiatives, such as pharmacy and stop-loss, that allow employers to realize greater value from third-party service providers than they can achieve on their own. With Global Benefits Management, our suite of global services supporting medical, dental and risk (life, accident and disability) programs, we have a tailored offering for multinationals. This offering includes a flexible set of ready-made solutions, proven technology, an efficient operational structure and an integrated approach to service delivery that translates to a globally consistent, high-quality experience for our clients. 5 Talent Rewards Our Talent Rewards ( T R ) business provides advice, data, software and products to address clients total rewards and talent issues. T R has operations across the globe, including centralized software development and analytics teams that support the efficient delivery of services to clients. Within our Rewards line of business, we address both executive compensation and broad-based rewards. We advise our clients management and boards of directors on all aspects of executive pay programs, including base pay, annual bonuses, long-term incentives, perquisites and other benefits. Our focus is on aligning pay plans with an organization s business strategy and driving desired performance. Our solutions incorporate market benchmarking data and software to support compensation administration. Our Talent line of business offers services focused on designing and implementing talent management programs and processes which help companies attract and deploy talent, engage them over time, manage their performance, develop their skills, provide them with relevant career paths, communicate with them and manage organizational change initiatives. Our solutions include employee insight and listening tools, talent assessment tools and services, and HR software to help companies administer and manage their talent management programs and analyze talent trends. Revenue for the T R business is partly seasonal in nature, with a meaningful amount of heightened activity in the second half of the calendar year during the annual compensation, benefits and survey cycles. While T R enjoys long-term relationships with many clients, work in several practices is often project-based and can be sensitive to economic changes. The business benefits from regulatory changes affecting our clients that require strategic advice, program changes and communication such as CEO pay ratio disclosure in the U.S. and gender-pay-gap reporting in the U.K. Additional areas of growth for T R include evolving views on effective individual performance measurement and management, focus on workforce productivity improvements and labor cost reductions, globalization and digitalization of the workforce, merger and acquisition ( M A ) activity, technology-enabled approaches for measuring and understanding workforce engagement, and the opportunity to leverage HR software to improve the design, management and implementation of HR processes and programs. Technology and Administration Solutions Our Technology and Administration Solutions ( TAS ) business provides benefits outsourcing services to hundreds of clients across multiple industries. Our TAS team focuses on clients outside of the U.S. where our services are supported by high quality administration teams using robust technology platforms. We have high client retention rates, and we are the leading administrator among the 200 largest pension plans in the U.K., as well as a leader in Germany. For both our defined benefit and defined contribution administration services, we use highly-automated processes and web technology to enable benefit plan members to access and manage their records, perform self-service functions and improve their understanding of their benefits. Our technology also provides trustees and HR teams with timely management information to monitor activity and service levels and reduce administration costs. Corporate Risk and Broking The Willis Towers Watson Corporate Risk Broking ( CRB ) segment provides a broad range of risk advice, insurance brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide ranging from small businesses to multinational corporations. The segment delivers integrated global solutions tailored to client needs and underpinned by data and analytics. CRB has placed more than $20 billion of premium into the insurance markets on an annual basis. CRB operates with three global offerings which aim to leverage capabilities across geographies. In these operations, we have extensive specialized experience handling diverse lines of coverage, including complex risk management programs. A key objective is to assist clients in reducing their overall cost of risk. Property and Casualty Property and Casualty provides property and liability insurance brokerage services across a wide range of industries including construction, real estate, healthcare and natural resources. Our construction practice provides risk management advice and brokerage services for a wide range of international construction activities. Clients of the construction practice include contractors, project owners, project managers, consultants and financiers. Our natural resources practice encompasses the oil and gas, mining, power and utilities sectors and provides services including property damage and liability advisory and broking services for both the onshore and offshore assets of our global clients. In addition, we also arrange insurance products and services for our affinity client partners to offer to their customers, employees or members alongside, or in addition to, their principal business offerings. Financial Lines Financial Lines specializes in brokerage services for financial, political and credit risks. Our clients include financial institutions, professional services firms and affinity groups from around the globe that require coverage for areas ranging from business risks, such as trade credit, directors and officers and medical malpractice, to external threats, such as cyber attacks, terrorism and creditor payment protection. 6 Transport Transport provides specialist expertise to the transportation , aerospace, marine and inspace industri es. Our aerospace business provides insurance brokerage and risk management services to aerospace clients worldwide, including the world s leading airlines, aircraft manufacturers, air cargo handlers and other airport and general aviation companies. Our marine business provides insurance brokerage services related to hull and machinery , cargo, protection and indemnity and general marine liabilities. Our marine clients include ship owners, ship builders, logistics operations, port authorities, traders and shippers. The specialist inspace team is also prominent in providing insurance and risk management services to the space industry. Facultative capabilities exist within each of the above offerings to serve as a broker or intermediary for insurance companies looking to arrange reinsurance solutions across various classes of risk. This allows our team of experts to deliver differentiated outcomes to their direct insureds, which in many situations are also clients of the wider Willis Towers Watson business. The facultative team also works closely with our treaty reinsurance business to structure reinsurance solutions that deliver capital and strategic benefits to insurance company clients. Investment, Risk and Reinsurance The Willis Towers Watson Investment, Risk and Reinsurance ( IRR ) segment uses a sophisticated approach to risk, which helps clients free up capital and manage investment complexity. The segment works closely with investors, reinsurers and insurers to manage the equation between risk and return. Blending advanced analytics with deep institutional knowledge, IRR identifies new opportunities to maximize performance. This segment provides investment consulting and discretionary management services and insurance-specific services and solutions through reserves opinions, software, ratemaking, risk underwriting and reinsurance broking. With approximately 77% of the revenue for this segment split between North America and the U.K., this segment includes the following businesses and offerings: Willis Re Willis Re provides reinsurance industry clients with an understanding of how risk affects capital and financial performance and advises on the best ways to manage related outcomes. We operate this business on a global basis and provide a complete range of transactional capabilities, including in conjunction with our Willis Re Securities business (formerly Willis Towers Watson Securities), a wide variety of capital markets-based products to both insurance and reinsurance companies. Our services are underpinned by modeling, financial analysis and risk management advice. Insurance Consulting and Technology Insurance Consulting and Technology is a global business that provides advice and technology solutions to the insurance industry. We leverage our industry experience, strategic perspective and analytical skills to help clients measure and manage risk and capital, improve business performance and create a sustainable competitive advantage. Our services include software and technology, risk and capital management, products and product pricing, financial and regulatory reporting, financial and capital modeling, M A, outsourcing and business management. Investments Investments provides advice and discretionary management solutions to improve investment outcomes for asset owners using a broad and sophisticated framework for managing risk. We provide coordinated investment advice and solutions to some of the world s largest pension funds and institutional investors based on our expertise in risk assessment, asset-liability modeling, strategic asset allocation policy setting, manager selection and investment execution. Wholesale Insurance Broking Wholesale Insurance Broking provides specialist broking services to retail and wholesale brokers, coverholders and direct clients in specialty lines worldwide, through Willis Towers Watson and London-based specialist broker Miller. Innovisk Innovisk (formerly Underwriting and Capital Management), with operations in the U.K. and North America, brings together our set of managing general agent underwriting activities for the purposes of accelerating their future development using data and technology. Within Innovisk, we act on behalf of our insurance carrier partners in product development, marketing and distribution, risk underwriting and selection, claims management and other general administrative responsibilities. Willis Re Securities Willis Re Securities (formerly Willis Towers Watson Securities), with offices in New York, London, and Sydney, provides capital markets services to companies involved in the insurance and reinsurance industries, including acting as underwriter for primary issuances, operating a secondary insurance-linked securities trading desk and engaging in strategic advisory work. Max Matthiessen Max Matthiessen is a leading advisor and broker for insurance, benefits, human resources and savings in the Nordic region. The business specializes in providing human capital and benefits administration together with providing market leading savings and insurance solutions. 7 Benefits Delivery and Administration The Willis Towers Watson Benefits Delivery and Administration ( BDA ) segment provides primary medical and ancillary benefit exchange and outsourcing services to active employees and re