Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 3 2 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Reserved 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 113 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B. Other Information 113 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 113 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 Item 11. Executive Compensation 114 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 114 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 121 Signatures 122 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Wynn Resorts, Limited ("Wynn Resorts," "Wynn," or together with its subsidiaries, "we" or the "Company") is a preeminent designer, developer, and operator of integrated resorts featuring luxury hotel rooms, high-end retail space, an array of dining and entertainment options, meeting and convention facilities, and gaming, all supported by an unparalleled focus on our guests, our people, and our community. We believe that our extensive design and operational experience across numerous gaming jurisdictions provides us with a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. Through our approximately 72% ownership of Wynn Macau, Limited ("WML"), we operate two integrated resorts in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China ("Macau"), Wynn Palace and Wynn Macau (collectively, our "Macau Operations"). In Las Vegas, Nevada, we operate and, with the exception of certain retail space, own 100% of Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas, which we also refer to as our Las Vegas Operations. In Everett, Massachusetts, we operate Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort. In addition, we hold an approximately 97% interest in Wynn Interactive Ltd. ("Wynn Interactive"), which operates WynnBET, our digital sports betting and casino gaming business. Additionally, the Company has a 40% equity interest in Island 3 AMI FZ-LLC, an unconsolidated affiliate, which is currently constructing an integrated resort property ("Wynn Al Marjan Island") in Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all other reports and any amendments of such reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") are available, without charge, at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov . In addition, through our corporate website at www.wynnresorts.com , Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which makes available all such reports and amendments and where they can be viewed without charge. The information found on or linked through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, nor does it form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Our Strategy We conceptualize, design, build, and operate our resorts to create unforgettable customer experiences across a diverse set of gaming and non-gaming amenities that attract a wide range of customer segments and generate strong financial results. Central to our strategy is the construction of, and regular reinvestment in, world-class integrated resorts. These activities are led by our in-house design, development, and construction subsidiary and its senior management team, which has significant experience across all major design and construction disciplines. In addition, we believe superior customer service is the best marketing strategy to attract customers and drive repeat visitation to our resorts. Human resources and staff training are essential to ensuring our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. We have been successful in attracting a wide range of premium guests both domestically and internationally. Part of this strategy includes leveraging our marketing team across various branch offices located internationally to connect with and build relationships with our customers. We continually evaluate our offerings and service levels, and as a result, have made and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to our resorts. We plan to continue to seek out new opportunities to develop and operate world-class integrated resorts and related businesses around the world. Overall, we believe Wynn Resorts has a demonstrated track record of developing and operating integrated resorts that stimulate local and regional economic activity, by attracting a wide range of customers (including high-net-worth international tourists), driving international tourism, raising average hotel room rates in the region, extending the average length of stay per visitor, complementing existing convention and meeting business with five-star accommodations and appropriately scaled meeting amenities, elevating service levels with the execution of five-star customer service, and stimulating city-wide investment and employment. 3 Table of Contents Our Values Wynn Resorts thrives in the luxury hospitality industry because of our employees, who exhibit our values at every level within the Company. Our values are embodied by the following concepts: Service-Driven . We foster a culture of respect, gratitude and meticulous attention to detail that makes service to guests our life s work. Excellence . Our singular focus on being the best celebrates the inherent connection between employee and guest, company and community. Artistry . We provide a collection of guest experiences that prize artistry and championship craftsmanship, resulting in Wynn Resorts being the highest ranked hotel company in the world. Progressive . Our commitment to innovation enables us to continue evolving what it means to create and operate world-class resort destinations. Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility We are committed to our people, our communities, and our planet. Executing on our commitment to corporate social responsibility includes: Creating a five-star workplace. Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, and investing in our people. Furthering social impact initiatives in our communities. Minimizing the consumption and maximizing the benefit on our environment by sourcing renewable energy and utilizing it responsibly. Elevating our corporate governance practices to ensure they appropriately support the long-term interests of our stakeholders. In North America, we have taken a leading role in the hospitality industry's transition to clean and sustainable sources of energy. Our investments in low-carbon energy, including on-site solar arrays and notably, a 160-acre solar facility in northern Nevada, have earned us a place in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Green Power Partnership. We voluntarily use green power to reduce carbon emissions and drive toward our corporate sustainability goals. We encourage our employees to avail themselves of numerous leadership and development opportunities and use our resources to assist in the education and development of the next generation of employees and leaders. We are also fully committed to supporting our communities in the Las Vegas and Boston areas, through our corporate giving program and through the Wynn Employee Foundation, which fosters charitable giving and volunteerism among Wynn employees and community partners. In Macau and across the Greater Bay Area, which is the region encompassing Macau, Hong Kong, and southern Guangdong Province, we strive to drive reinvestment in our community, encourage volunteerism, and promote responsible gaming through our Wynn Care program. Since launching this program, we have centralized our community-focused initiatives under one umbrella and meaningfully increased our involvement in various volunteer activities and community events in Macau, the Greater Bay Area, and beyond. We are also fully committed to supporting the sustainable development of Macau and endeavor to provide our guests with a premium experience while remaining environmentally conscious by monitoring and reducing inefficient energy and resource consumption and embracing technologies that help us to responsibly use our resources. In addition, we provide our employees in Macau with numerous professional development and training opportunities to elevate core and leadership skills. Executing on Our Strategy Reflecting our strategic focus, our values, and our commitment to delivering world-class, five-star service within luxury integrated resorts, the Company has received the following recognition: Collectively, Wynn Resorts earned 22 Forbes Travel Guide Five-Star awards in 2024, more than any other independent hotel company in the world. 4 Table of Contents Wynn Resorts was once again honored to be included on FORTUNE Magazine's 2024 World's Most Admired Companies list in the hotel, casino, and resort category and ranked first overall in the category of Quality of Products/ Services among all international hotel companies. Wynn Las Vegas has received Four Green Globes, the highest certification for energy-efficient and sustainable buildings from the Green Building Initiative. Encore Boston Harbor has been certified LEED Platinum, the U.S. Green Building Council's highest level of certification. Our Resorts We present the operating results of our four resorts in the following segments: Wynn Palace, Wynn Macau, Las Vegas Operations, and Encore Boston Harbor. We generally experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, including from such factors as the timing of major conventions and holidays; however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. Wynn Palace We opened Wynn Palace in August 2016, on Macau's Cotai Strip, conveniently located minutes from both Macau International Airport and the Macau Taipa Ferry Terminal and directly adjacent to a stop serviced by Macau's light rail system. The property features approximately 468,000 square feet of casino space with 304 table games and 554 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons and sky casinos. Wynn Palace also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 1,706 guest rooms, suites, and villas, offering a health club, spa, salon, and pool. In addition, Wynn Palace offers 14 food and beverage outlets, approximately 107,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 37,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. The property's signature public attractions and entertainment offerings include a performance lake, an immersive entertainment center, Western and Asian art displays, and a gondola ride offering convenient street-level access. We are in the design stages of developing the next phase of Wynn Palace. We currently expect that the next phase at Wynn Palace will incorporate an array of amenities such as theater and event space, food and beverage features, and other non-gaming offerings. Wynn Macau We opened Wynn Macau in September 2006, and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Macau, in April 2010. Located in the heart of downtown Macau, the property features approximately 294,000 square feet of casino space with 259 table games and 530 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons, sky casinos, and a poker room. Wynn Macau also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 1,010 guest rooms and suites, offering two health clubs, two spas, a salon and a pool. In addition, Wynn Macau offers 14 food and beverage outlets, approximately 64,300 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 31,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Wynn Macau's signature attractions include a performance lake and a rotunda show featuring a Chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold "tree of prosperity" and "dragon of fortune" features. Las Vegas Operations We opened Wynn Las Vegas in April 2005 and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Las Vegas, in December 2008. Wynn Las Vegas is located at the intersection of the Las Vegas Strip and Sands Avenue, and occupies approximately 215 acres of land fronting the Las Vegas Strip. The property features approximately 194,000 square feet of casino space with 232 table games and 1,621 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons, a sky casino, a poker room, and a race and sports book. Wynn Las Vegas also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,748 guest rooms, suites, and villas, which offers swimming pools, private cabanas, two full service spas and salons, and a wedding chapel. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas offers 34 food and beverage outlets, approximately 177,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, approximately 513,000 square feet of meeting and convention space, and a golf course. Our nightlife and entertainment offerings at Wynn Las Vegas include two nightclubs and a beach club, and two theaters presenting an exclusive theatrical production and various headliner entertainment act. 5 Table of Contents Encore Boston Harbor On June 23, 2019, we opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort in Everett, Massachusetts, adjacent to Boston along the Mystic River. The property features approximately 210,000 square feet of casino space with 183 table games, 24 poker tables and approximately 2,633 slot machines, private and high-limit gaming areas, and a sports book. Encore Boston Harbor also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 671 guest rooms and suites, which offers a spa and salon. In addition, Encore Boston Harbor offers 14 food and beverage outlets and a nightclub, approximately 8,186 square feet of retail space, and approximately 71,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Public attractions include a waterfront park, floral displays, and water shuttle service to downtown Boston. Future Development Projects In January 2022, we, along with Al Marjan Island and RAK Hospitality, announced plans for the development and management of Wynn Al Marjan Island, a destination integrated resort property in the Emirate of Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates. Wynn Al Marjan Island, which is currently under construction, is anticipated to be completed and open to the public in 2027, featuring an over 1,500-room hotel, luxury villas, a high-end shopping mall, a state-of-the-art meeting and convention facility, an exclusive spa, more than 10 restaurants and lounges, a wide array of entertainment choices, a gaming area (subject to regulatory approval), and other amenities. The planned integrated resort will leverage Wynn Resorts' expertise in developing and operating luxury hospitality destinations, and is expected to create substantial value to the local economy by accelerating tourism, creating jobs, and contributing to the growth of related sectors. The Company is currently constructing a phased development adjacent to Encore Boston Harbor, which will include a theater, entertainment venues, gaming facilities, food and beverage facilities, and a parking garage. We anticipate this development opening to the public in 2026. Wynn Interactive In August 2023, the Company announced its decision to close WynnBET, Wynn Interactive s digital sports betting and casino gaming business, in jurisdictions other than New York, Massachusetts, and Michigan, and in January 2024 the Company announced its decision to close WynnBET in Massachusetts. In February 2024, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the transfer and assignment of Wynn s market access rights and related obligations in Michigan to Caesars Entertainment, Inc., and separately, signed an equity purchase agreement for the sale of WSI US, LLC, Wynn Interactive s domestic operating subsidiary, which includes the Company s gaming license in New York, to Penn Entertainment, Inc.; in each case, subject to certain customary closing conditions. Market and Competition The casino resort industry is highly competitive. We compete with other high-quality resorts on the basis of the range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. We seek to differentiate our integrated resorts by delivering superior design and customer service. Macau Macau, located in the Greater Bay Area, is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of Hong Kong. The journey between Macau and Hong Kong takes approximately 15 minutes by helicopter, 30 minutes by road via the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge, and one hour by jetfoil ferry. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 60 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, between which the Cotai area is located. In addition to Wynn Resorts (Macau) S.A. ("Wynn Macau SA"), SJM Resorts, S.A. ("SJM"), Galaxy Casino, S.A. ("Galaxy"), Venetian Macau, S.A. ("Venetian Macau"), Melco Resorts (Macau) Limited ("Melco"), and MGM Grand Paradise Limited ("MGM Macau") are permitted to operate casinos in Macau, with a total of 30 casinos currently in operation. 6 Table of Contents Both the Macau gaming market and visitation to Macau grew significantly from liberalization in 2002 up until the outbreak of COVID-19, but fell meaningfully from early 2020 to December 2022 due to certain border control and other travel related restrictions as a result of the pandemic. Over the course of December 2022 and January 2023, Macau authorities eliminated these COVID-19 related protective measures. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, visitation to Macau in 2023 increased 394.9% and decreased 28.4% as compared to 2022 and 2019, respectively. We believe that the Macau region hosts one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming and tourism customers. According to Macau Statistical Information, annual gaming revenues were $36.5 billion in 2019, before falling to $7.6 billion in 2020, $10.8 billion in 2021, and $5.3 billion in 2022, due to various quarantine measures and travel and entry restrictions and conditions since the outbreak of COVID-19, and increased to $22.7 billion in 2023, due to Macau authorities eliminating COVID-19 related protective measures over the course of December 2022 and January 2023. We continue to believe that Macau's stated goal of becoming a world-class tourism destination will continue to drive additional visitation to the market and create future opportunities for us to invest and grow. Our Macau Operations face competition primarily from the 28 other casinos located throughout Macau in addition to casinos located throughout the world, including Singapore, South Korea, the Philippines, Vietnam, Cambodia, Malaysia, Australia, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Additionally, certain other Asian countries and regions have legalized or in the future may legalize gaming, such as Japan, Taiwan, and Thailand, which could increase competition for our Macau Operations. Las Vegas Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States. The Las Vegas gaming market is highly competitive and is largely dependent on tourist arrivals and meeting- and convention-related visitation. Las Vegas Strip gaming revenues increased significantly during the year ended December 31, 2023 due to increases in gaming volumes and visitation to the Las Vegas Strip. According to statistics published by the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas Strip total gaming win was $8.9 billion in 2023, a 7.4% increase from $8.3 billion in 2022. According to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, overall Las Vegas visitor volume was 40.8 million in 2023, a 5.2% increase from 38.8 million in 2022. Occupancy on the Las Vegas Strip increased 5.6% (on an absolute basis) to 86.2%, from 81.6% in 2022. Our Las Vegas Operations are located on the Las Vegas Strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in Las Vegas. There are currently several large-scale integrated resort projects either recently completed or under development in the vicinity of our Las Vegas Operations, which may present increased competition in the future. Our Las Vegas Operations also compete, to some extent, with other casino resorts throughout the United States and elsewhere in the world. Massachusetts Massachusetts and its neighboring states of Connecticut and Rhode Island are host to a large, established casino market that generated approximately $3.0 billion of gross gaming revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. The greater Boston metropolitan area is the largest population center in New England, with a population of approximately 5 million residents. Gaming in the New England region is characterized by a high degree of competition, based largely on location, product quality, service levels, and effectiveness in marketing to and establishing relationships with repeat visitors located in the area. Encore Boston Harbor competes with both commercial and Native American casinos located in the northeastern United States, including two Native American casinos in Connecticut, two casinos in Rhode Island, and MGM Springfield in Massachusetts. Differences in regulatory landscapes across state borders may impact our ability to compete with other casinos in the region. For example, some casino operators in the region may pay lower gaming taxes, or may be permitted to offer gaming amenities we are currently unable to offer at Encore Boston Harbor. We also face competition, to a lesser degree, from operations in the region which offer other forms of legalized gaming and related recreation and leisure facilities, such as state lotteries, horse racing, online gaming, and sports betting. 7 Table of Contents Regulation and Licensing Macau On December 16, 2022, Wynn Macau SA, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, entered into a definitive gaming concession contract (the "Gaming Concession Contract") with the Macau government, pursuant to which Wynn Macau SA was granted a 10-year gaming concession commencing on January 1, 2023 and expiring on December 31, 2032, to operate games of chance at Wynn Palace and Wynn Macau. As a casino concessionaire, Wynn Macau SA is subject to the regulatory control of the Macau government. The Macau government has adopted Laws and Administrative Regulations governing the operation of casinos in Macau. Only concessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. Each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the Macau government which, together with the Law and Administrative Regulations, form the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. Under the Laws and Administrative Regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire's equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. The same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. Concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the Macau government. Concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. Transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the Macau government and are ineffective without government approval. Each concessionaire is required to engage a managing director who must be a permanent resident of Macau and the holder of at least 15% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. The appointment of the managing director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. All contracts placing the management of a concessionaire's casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. Concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 5% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. Concessionaires are obligated to withhold applicable taxes, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to gaming promoters. The withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. The Gaming Concession Contract between Wynn Macau SA and the Macau government requires Wynn Macau SA to operate two casinos: "Casino Wynn Macau" and "Casino Wynn Palace." Under the Gaming Concession Contract, Wynn Macau SA provided a first demand bank guarantee of MOP1.00 billion (approximately $124.2 million) in favor of the Macau government to support Wynn Macau SA s legal and contractual obligations, from January 1, 2023 until one hundred and eighty days after the term of the Gaming Concession Contract expires or the rescission of the concession. Pursuant to the Gaming Concession Contract and applicable Macau laws, Macau government may rescind the gaming concession if Wynn Macau SA fails to fulfill its obligations under the Macau law or the Gaming Concession Contract, including in the circumstances of (i) endangerment to the national security of mainland China or Macau, (ii) failure on the part of Wynn Macau SA to perform its obligations under the Gaming Concession Contract, (iii) public interest, and (iv) Wynn Macau SA ceasing to be eligible for the gaming concession under the Macau gaming law. If the Macau government rescinds the Gaming Concession Contract due to Wynn Macau SA s non-fulfilment, or perceived non-fulfillment, of its obligations, Wynn Macau SA will be required to transfer to the Macau government, free from any encumbrance or lien and without compensation, all of its casinos, gaming assets and equipment and ownership rights to its casino areas in Macau. Beginning in the eighth year of Wynn Macau SA s concession, the Macau government may exercise its right to redeem the concession by providing Wynn Macau SA with at least one-year prior written notice. In such event, Wynn Macau SA would be entitled to fair and equitable compensation pursuant to the Macau gaming law. The amount of such compensation relating to the projects agreed with the Macau government would be determined based on the earnings of these projects, before interest, depreciation and amortization for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date the redemption is declared, multiplied by the number of years remaining on the term of the Gaming Concession Contract. The government of Macau may assume temporary custody and control over the 8 Table of Contents operation of a concession in certain circumstances. During any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. Wynn Macau SA is required to obtain prior approval from the relevant Macau authorities or officials for various corporate changes and actions, including expansion of its business scope, issuance of shares, transfer of or creation of any encumbrances over its shares, issuance of debt securities, change of its managing director or the authority delegated thereto, change of its articles of association, certain transfers of property rights and creditor s rights, entering into a consumer loan contract or similar contract with a value equal to or exceeding MOP100.0 million (approximately US$12.4 million), and granting of a loan to any of its directors, shareholders or key employees. Wynn Macau SA is required to notify the Macau government of certain other changes, including any loan, mortgage, claim for obligation, guarantee or the assumption of any debt for financing its business with a value that equals to or exceeds MOP16.0 million (approximately US$2.0 million). In particular, Wynn Macau SA is required to notify the Chief Executive of Macau at least five working days in advance prior to making financial decisions (i) related to the transfer of funds within Wynn Macau SA which exceeds 50% of its share capital, (ii) related to employee salaries, remuneration or benefits which exceed 10% of its share capital, and (iii) not related to above items (i) and (ii), whose value exceeding 10% of its share capital. Pursuant to the Gaming Concession Contract, Wynn Macau SA is required to submit to the Macau government an annual execution proposal of the specific projects mentioned in the Investment Plan annexed to the Gaming Concession Contract which it intends to execute in the following year by September 30, of each calendar year, detailing each project it intends to invest, the investment amount and the execution schedule for the relevant year for the purpose of government approval. Within 60 days after submission of each annual execution proposal, the Macau government will decide on its approval, and may request adjustments to specific projects, the investment amount and the execution schedule. If any of our annual execution proposals or parts th