Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 37 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 111 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 111 Item 9B. Other Information 111 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 112 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 112 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 112 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 113 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 Signatures 117 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Wynn Resorts, Limited ("Wynn Resorts," or together with its subsidiaries, "we" or the "Company") is a preeminent designer, developer, and operator of integrated resorts featuring luxury hotel rooms, high-end retail space, an array of dining and entertainment options, meeting and convention facilities, and gaming, all supported by an unparalleled focus on our guests, our people, and our community. We believe that our extensive design and operational experience across numerous gaming jurisdictions provides us with a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. Through our approximately 72% ownership of Wynn Macau, Limited ("WML"), we operate two integrated resorts in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China ("Macau"), Wynn Palace and Wynn Macau (collectively, our "Macau Operations"). In Las Vegas, Nevada, we operate and, with the exception of certain retail space, own 100% of Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas, which we also refer to as our Las Vegas Operations. On June 23, 2019, we opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort in Everett, Massachusetts. Wynn Resorts was incorporated in Nevada in 2002. Wynn Resorts files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments of such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Any document Wynn Resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov . Information related to the operation of the SEC's public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, through our corporate website at www.wynnresorts.com , Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. The information found on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Our Strategy We conceptualize, design, build, and operate our resorts to create unforgettable customer experiences across a diverse set of gaming and non-gaming amenities that attract a wide range of customer segments and generate strong financial results. Central to our strategy is the construction of, and regular reinvestment in, world-class integrated resorts. These activities are led by our in-house design, development, and construction subsidiary and its senior management team, which has significant experience across all major design and construction disciplines. In addition, we believe superior customer service is the best marketing strategy to attract customers and drive repeat visitation to our resorts. Human resources and staff training are essential to ensuring our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. We have been successful in attracting a wide range of premium guests both domestically and internationally. We leverage our international marketing team across branch offices located in Hong Kong SAR, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, and Canada to connect with and build relationships with our international customers. We continually evaluate our offerings and service levels, and as a result, have made and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to our resorts. We plan to continue to seek out new opportunities to develop and operate world-class integrated resorts and related businesses around the world. Overall, we believe Wynn Resorts has a demonstrated track record of developing and operating integrated resorts that stimulate local and regional economic activity, by attracting a wide range of customers (including high-net-worth international tourists), driving international tourism, raising average hotel room rates in the region, extending the average length of stay per visitor, complementing existing convention and meeting business with five-star accommodations and appropriately scaled meeting amenities, elevating service levels with the execution of five-star customer service, and stimulating city-wide investment and employment. 3 Table of Contents Our Values Wynn Resorts thrives in the luxury hospitality industry because of our employees, who exhibit our values at every level within the Company. Our values are embodied by the following concepts: Service-Driven . We foster a culture of respect, gratitude and meticulous attention to detail that makes service to guests our life s work. Excellence . Our singular focus on being the best celebrates the inherent connection between employee and guest, company and community. Artistry . We provide a collection of guest experiences that prize artistry and championship craftsmanship, resulting in Wynn Resorts being the highest ranked hotel company in the world. Progressive . Our commitment to innovation enables us to continue evolving what it means to create and operate world-class resort destinations. Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability We are committed to our people, our communities, and our planet. Executing on our commitment to corporate social responsibility and sustainability includes: Creating a five-star workplace. Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, and investing in our people. Furthering social impact initiatives in our communities. Minimizing the harm and maximizing the benefit that we have on our community and environment by utilizing and sourcing energy and materials responsibly. Elevating our corporate governance practices to ensure they appropriately support the long-term interests of our stakeholders. In North America, we have taken a leading role in the hospitality industry's transition to clean and sustainable sources of energy. Our investments in alternative energy, including on-site solar arrays and notably, a 160-acre solar facility in Northern Nevada, have earned us an invitation to join the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Green Power Partnership and a top ranking among Fortune 500 companies that voluntarily use green power to reduce air pollution and other environmental impacts associated with electricity use. We encourage our employees to avail themselves of numerous leadership and development opportunities and use our resources to assist in the education and development of the next generation of employees and leaders. We are also fully committed to supporting our communities in the Las Vegas and Boston areas, through our corporate giving program and through the Wynn Employee Foundation, which fosters charitable giving and volunteerism among Wynn employees and community partners. In Macau and across the Greater Bay Area, which is the region encompassing Macau, Hong Kong, and southern Guangdong Province, we strive to drive reinvestment in our community, encourage volunteerism, and promote responsible gaming through our Wynn Care program. Since launching this program, we have centralized our community-focused initiatives under one umbrella and meaningfully increased our involvement in various volunteer activities and community events in Macau, the Greater Bay Area, and beyond. We are also fully committed to the sustainable development of Macau and endeavor to provide our guests with a premium experience while remaining environmentally conscious by monitoring and reducing inefficient consumption and embracing technologies that help us to responsibly use our resources. In addition, we provide our employees in Macau with numerous professional development and training opportunities to elevate core and leadership skills. 4 Table of Contents Executing on Our Strategy Reflecting our strategic focus, our values, and our commitment to delivering world-class, five-star service within luxury integrated resorts, the Company has received the following recognition: Wynn Las Vegas and Encore have each earned Five-Star status on the 2020 Forbes Travel Guide ("FTG") Star Rating list and are now the largest and second largest FTG Five-Star resorts in the world respectively. Wynn Palace, originally earning FTG Five-Star status in 2018, is the third largest. Collectively, Wynn Resorts earned more FTG Five-Star awards than any other independent hotel company in the world in 2020. Wynn Palace garnered seven individual FTG Five-Star awards in 2020. Wynn Macau continues to be the only resort in the world with eight individual FTG Five-Star awards in 2020. Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace are the most decorated integrated resort brands in Asia with fifteen FTG Five-Star awards combined. Wynn Las Vegas and Encore added two new 2020 FTG Five-Star awards and now collectively hold seven, the most of any resorts in North America. Wynn Resorts was once again honored to be included on FORTUNE Magazine's 2020 World's Most Admired Companies list in the hotel, casino, and resort category and ranked first overall in the category of Quality of Products/ Services among all international hotel companies. Wynn Las Vegas was certified as the only casino resort in Las Vegas as a 'Great Workplace' by the analysts at Great Place to Work in 2019. Wynn Las Vegas has received Four Green Globes, the highest certification for energy-efficient and sustainable buildings from the Green Building Initiative. Encore Boston Harbor has been certified LEED Platinum, the U.S. Green Building Council's highest level of certification. Our Resorts We present the operating results of our four resorts in the following segments: Wynn Palace, Wynn Macau, Las Vegas Operations, and Encore Boston Harbor. We may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, including from such factors as the timing of major conventions and holidays; however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. Wynn Palace We opened Wynn Palace in August 2016, on Macau's Cotai Strip, conveniently located minutes from both Macau International Airport and the Macau Taipa Ferry Terminal and directly adjacent to a stop serviced by Macau's light rail system, which recently commenced operations in Cotai. The property features approximately 424,000 square feet of casino space with 323 table games and 1,011 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons and sky casinos. Wynn Palace also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 1,706 guest rooms, suites, and villas, offering a health club, spa, salon, and pool. In addition, Wynn Palace offers 14 food and beverage outlets, approximately 106,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 37,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. The property's signature public attractions and entertainment offerings include a performance lake, a gondola ride offering convenient street-level access, and an exceptional display of Western and Asian art. We are in the preliminary planning and design stages of developing the Crystal Pavilion at Wynn Palace. We expect that the Crystal Pavilion will become a unique world-class cultural destination, incorporating art, theater and interactive installations, expansive food and beverage offerings, additional hotel rooms, and several signature entertainment features. We expect construction of the initial phase of the Crystal Pavilion will begin in late 2021. 5 Table of Contents Wynn Macau We opened Wynn Macau in September 2006, and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Macau, in April 2010. Located in the heart of downtown Macau, the property features approximately 252,000 square feet of casino space with 322 table games and 838 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons, sky casinos, and a poker room. Wynn Macau also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 1,010 guest rooms and suites, offering two health clubs, two spas, a salon and a pool. In addition, Wynn Macau offers 12 food and beverage outlets, approximately 59,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 31,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Wynn Macau's signature attractions include a rotunda show featuring a Chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold "tree of prosperity" and "dragon of fortune" features. In November 2019, we opened the first phase of our Lakeside Casino expansion at Wynn Macau which features 44 mass market table games and a refurbished high-limit slot area. We expect to open the second phase, which will include two new restaurants and approximately 7,000 square feet of additional retail space, in the first half of 2020. Las Vegas Operations We opened Wynn Las Vegas in April 2005 and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Las Vegas, in December 2008. Wynn Las Vegas is located at the intersection of the Las Vegas Strip and Sands Avenue, and occupies approximately 215 acres of land fronting the Las Vegas Strip. The property features approximately 194,000 square feet of casino space with 232 table games and 1,756 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons, a sky casino, a poker room, and a race and sports book. Wynn Las Vegas also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,748 guest rooms, suites, and villas, which offers swimming pools, private cabanas, two full service spas and salons, and a wedding chapel. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas offers 33 food and beverage outlets, approximately 160,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 507,000 square feet of meeting and convention space (including the 217,000 square foot Meeting and Convention Expansion that opened in February 2020, as discussed below). Our nightlife and entertainment offerings at Wynn Las Vegas include two nightclubs and a beach club, and a specially designed theater presenting "Le R ve The Dream," a water-based theatrical production, and a theater presenting entertainment productions and various headliner entertainment acts. In October 2019, we reopened the newly reconfigured Wynn Las Vegas golf course, which had been closed since 2017. In February 2020, we opened our meeting and convention expansion at Wynn Las Vegas (the "Meeting and Convention Expansion"). The space features approximately 217,000 square feet of incremental state-of-the-art meeting and convention space (430,000 square feet of gross space), which has nearly doubled our group footprint in Las Vegas. We estimate the total project budget, including the redesigned golf course that reopened in October 2019, to be approximately $425 million. As of December 31, 2019, we have incurred $351.3 million in total project costs. Encore Boston Harbor On June 23, 2019, the Company opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort in Everett, Massachusetts, adjacent to Boston along the Mystic River. The property features approximately 210,000 square feet of casino space with 161 table games and 2,833 slot machines, private and high-limit gaming areas, and a poker room. Encore Boston Harbor also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 671 guest rooms and suites, which offers a spa and salon. In addition, Encore Boston Harbor offers 16 food and beverage outlets and a nightclub, approximately 8,000 square feet of retail space, and approximately 71,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Public attractions include a waterfront park, floral displays, and water shuttle service to downtown Boston. 6 Table of Contents Market and Competition The casino resort industry is highly competitive. We compete with other high-quality resorts located near our properties on the basis of the range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. We seek to differentiate our integrated resorts by delivering superior design and customer service. Macau Macau, located in the Greater Bay Area, is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of Hong Kong. The journey between Macau and Hong Kong takes approximately 15 minutes by helicopter, 30 minutes by road since the opening of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge in October 2018 and one hour by jetfoil ferry. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 50 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, between which the Cotai area is located. In 2002, the government of Macau ended a 40-year monopoly on the conduct of gaming operations by conducting a competitive process that resulted in the issuance of gaming concessions to three concessionaires (including Wynn Resorts (Macau) S.A., ("Wynn Macau SA")) who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of Macau, to each grant one subconcession, resulting in a total of six gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. In addition to Wynn Macau SA, each of Sociedade de Jogos de Macau ("SJM") and Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited ("Galaxy") are primary concessionaires with Sands China Ltd. ("Sands"), Melco International Development Limited ("Melco") and MGM China Holdings Limited ("MGM China") operating under subconcessions. There is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire or subconcessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. Currently, there are 41 casinos operating in Macau. We believe that the Macau region hosts one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming and tourism customers. Since the introduction of new casinos starting in 2004, the Macau market has experienced a significant increase in annual gaming revenue and has become the largest gaming market in the world. According to Macau Statistical Information, annual gaming revenues have grown from $2.9 billion in 2002 to $36.5 billion in 2019. In addition, we believe that Macau's stated goal of becoming a world-class tourism destination will drive additional visitation to the market and create future opportunities for us to invest and grow. Macau's gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. Gaming customers traveling to Macau typically come from nearby destinations in Asia. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, over 90% of the visitors to Macau in 2019 came from mainland China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Travel to Macau by citizens of mainland China requires a visa. According to 2019 government statistics, Macau tourist arrivals increased 10.1%, to 39.4 million, from 35.8 million in 2018. Annual gaming revenues decreased to $36.5 billion in 2019, from $37.5 billion in 2018. The Macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity since the opening of Wynn Macau in 2006. As of December 31, 2019, there were 38,300 hotel rooms, 6,739 table games and 17,009 slot machines in Macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms, 2,762 table games and 6,546 slot machines as of December 31, 2006. During 2016, we contributed to the new capacity in the market with the opening of Wynn Palace in the Cotai area. Several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires also opened additional facilities from 2016 through 2018 in the Cotai area and will open additional facilities over the next few years, which will further increase other gaming and non-gaming offerings in the Macau market. Our Macau Operations face competition primarily from the 39 other casinos located throughout Macau in addition to casinos located throughout the world, including Singapore, South Korea, the Philippines, Vietnam, Cambodia, Malaysia, Australia, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Additionally, certain other Asian countries and regions have legalized or in the future may legalize gaming, such as Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, which could increase competition for our Macau Operations. Las Vegas Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States. Although Las Vegas Strip gaming revenues remained relatively flat at $6.6 billion for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, visitation and hotel room demand remained strong. Overall Las Vegas visitor volume was 42.5 million in 2019. Passenger traffic at McCarran International Airport increased 3.8% in 2019, following year-over-year increases of 5.8%, 4.5%, and 4.7% from 2016 to 2018, respectively. During 2019, the average daily room rate and revenue per available room on the Las Vegas Strip increased 3.2% and 4.3%, 7 Table of Contents respectively. Occupancy on the Las Vegas Strip increased 0.9% to 90.4%, from 89.5% in 2018. Convention attendees increased 2.3% in 2019, following year-over-year increases of 13.4%, 7.1%, and 3.0% from 2016 to 2018, respectively. Wynn Las Vegas is located on the Las Vegas Strip and competes with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in Las Vegas. Wynn Las Vegas also competes, to some extent, with other casino resorts throughout the United States and elsewhere in the world. Massachusetts Massachusetts and its neighboring states of Connecticut and Rhode Island are host to a large, established casino market that generated over $2.5 billion of gross gaming revenue in 2019. The greater Boston metropolitan area is the largest population center in the region of New England, with a population of approximately 5 million residents. Encore Boston Harbor competes with both commercial and Native American casinos located in the northeastern United States, including two Native American casinos in Connecticut, two casinos in Rhode Island, and MGM Springfield in Massachusetts. Gaming in the New England region is characterized by a high degree of competition, based largely on location, product quality, service levels, and effectiveness in marketing to and establishing relationships with repeat visitors located in the area. Differences in regulatory landscapes across state borders may impact our ability to compete with other casinos in the region. For example, some casino operators in the region may pay lower gaming taxes, or may be permitted to offer gaming amenities we are currently unable to offer at Encore Boston Harbor. We also face competition, to a lesser degree, from operations in the region which offer other forms of legalized gaming and related recreation and leisure facilities, such as state lotteries, horse racing, online gaming, and sports betting. Regulation and Licensing Macau As a casino concessionaire, Wynn Macau SA is subject to the regulatory control of the government of Macau. The government has adopted Laws and Administrative Regulations governing the operation of casinos in Macau. Only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. Subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the Macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. Each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the Macau government which, together with the Law and Administrative Regulations, form the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. Under the Law and Administrative Regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire's equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. The same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. Concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the Macau government. Concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. Transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the Macau government and are ineffective without government approval. Each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of Macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. The appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. All contracts placing the management of a concessionaire's casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. Concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. Concessionaires are obligated to withhold applicable taxes, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to gaming promoters. The withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. The concession agreement between Wynn Macau SA and the Macau government required Wynn Macau SA to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in Macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of December 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion Macau patacas (approximately $500.0 million) in Macau-related projects by June 2009. These obligations were satisfied upon the opening of Wynn Macau in 2006. 8 Table of Contents Wynn Macau SA was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700.0 million Macau pataca (approximately $87.0 million) bank guarantee from Banco National Ultramarino, S.A. ("BNU") that was effective until March 31, 2007. The amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million Macau patacas (approximately $37.3 million) for the period from April 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. This guarantee, which is for the benefit of the Macau government, assures Wynn Macau SA's performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. Wynn Macau SA is obligated, upon demand by BNU, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the Macau government. BNU is currently paid an annual fee by Wynn Macau SA for the guarantee of approximately 2.3 million patacas (approximately $0.3 million). Effective June 24, 2017, the government of Macau may redeem the concession and in such event, Wynn Macau SA will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the remaining years before expiration of the concession. The government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if Wynn Macau SA fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau SA: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, Wynn Macau SA will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of Wynn Macau SA will be transferred to the government without compensation. In addition, the government of Macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case Wynn Macau SA would be entitled to reasonable compensation. The government of Macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. During any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. The government of Macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. The Macau government has publicly commented that it is studying the process by which gaming concessions and subconcessions may be extended, renewed or issued. The c