Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Reserved 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 109 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 109 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 110 Item 11. Executive Compensation 110 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 110 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 110 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 110 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 111 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 115 Signatures 116 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company Wynn Resorts, Limited ("Wynn Resorts," or together with its subsidiaries, "we" or the "Company") is a preeminent designer, developer, and operator of integrated resorts featuring luxury hotel rooms, high-end retail space, an array of dining and entertainment options, meeting and convention facilities, and gaming, all supported by an unparalleled focus on our guests, our people, and our community. We believe that our extensive design and operational experience across numerous gaming jurisdictions provides us with a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. Through our approximately 72% ownership of Wynn Macau, Limited ("WML"), we operate two integrated resorts in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China ("Macau"), Wynn Palace and Wynn Macau (collectively, our "Macau Operations"). In Las Vegas, Nevada, we operate and, with the exception of certain retail space, own 100% of Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas, which we also refer to as our Las Vegas Operations. On June 23, 2019, we opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort in Everett, Massachusetts. In addition, we hold an approximately 74% interest in Wynn Interactive Ltd. ("Wynn Interactive"), which operates our digital sports betting and casino gaming business. Wynn Resorts files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments of such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Any document Wynn Resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov . Information related to the operation of the SEC's public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, through our corporate website at www.wynnresorts.com , Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. The information found on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Recent Developments COVID-19 Update Macau Operations Visitation to Macau has fallen significantly since the outbreak of COVID-19, driven by the strong deterrent effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on travel and social activities, quarantine measures put in place in Macau and elsewhere, travel and entry restrictions and conditions in Macau, the People's Republic of China ("PRC"), Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of PRC ("Hong Kong") and Taiwan involving COVID-19 testing, among other things, and the suspension or reduced accessibility of transportation to and from Macau. Beginning in June 2020, certain restrictions and conditions have eased to allow for visitation to Macau as some regions continue to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Quarantine-free travel, subject to COVID-19 safeguards such as testing and the usual visa requirements, has been reintroduced between Macau and most areas and cities within the PRC, and in September 2020, PRC authorities fully resumed the IVS exit visa program, which permits individual PRC citizens from nearly 50 PRC cities to travel to Macau for tourism purposes. Given the evolving conditions created by and in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, measures that have been lifted may be reintroduced if there are adverse developments in the COVID-19 situation in Macau and other regions with access to Macau, and the Company is currently unable to determine when protective measures and the suspension of certain offerings in effect at our Macau Operations will be lifted. Given the uncertainty around the extent and timing of the potential future spread or mitigation of COVID-19 and around the imposition or relaxation of protective measures, management cannot reasonably estimate the impact to the Company's future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. Las Vegas Operations and Encore Boston Harbor In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Company s Las Vegas Operations and Encore Boston Harbor each implemented COVID-19 specific protective measures, such as limiting the number of seats per table game, slot machine spacing, temperature checks, mask protection, and suspension of certain entertainment and nightlife offerings. Over the course of 2021, the Company's Las Vegas Operations and Encore Boston Harbor each incrementally resumed full operations, including reopening gaming areas to 100% of capacity and restoring seven-day-per-week hotel operations, as permitted by governmental authorities and in response to increased customer demand. Given the evolving conditions created by and in response to the 3 Table of Contents COVID-19 pandemic, measures that have been lifted may be reintroduced if there are adverse developments in the COVID-19 situation, and management cannot reasonably estimate the impact of such developments to the Company's future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. Liquidity As of December 31, 2021, the Company had total cash and cash equivalents, excluding restricted cash, of $2.52 billion, and had access to $835.6 million of available borrowing capacity from the WRF Revolver and $212.5 million of available borrowing capacity from the WM Cayman II Revolver (as defined and discussed further in Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," Note 7, "Long-Term Debt"). The Company has suspended its dividend program. Given the Company's liquidity position at December 31, 2021 and the steps the Company has taken as further described in Note 7, "Long-Term Debt," the Company believes it is able to support continuing operations and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic challenges. Macau Gaming Concession The term of the Company's concession agreement with the Macau government ends on June 26, 2022. If the term of this concession agreement is not extended or renewed or is not replaced by a new gaming concession, all of the Company's gaming operations and related equipment in Macau will be automatically transferred to the Macau government without compensation on that date and the Company will cease to generate gaming revenues from its Macau Operations. In addition, under the indentures governing the Company's $4.7 billion aggregate principal amount of WML Senior Notes and the facility agreement governing the WM Cayman II Revolver, upon the occurrence of any event after which the Company does not own or manage casino or gaming areas or operate casino games of fortune and chance in Macau in substantially the same manner as of the issue date of the respective senior notes or the date of the facility agreement, for a period of 10 consecutive days or more in the case of the WML Senior Notes or a period of 30 consecutive days or more in the case of the WM Cayman II Revolver, and such event has a material adverse effect on the financial condition, business, properties or results of operations of WML and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, holders of the WML Senior Notes can require the Company to repurchase all or any part of the WML Senior Notes at par, plus any accrued and unpaid interest (the "Special Put Option"), and any amounts owed under the WM Cayman II Revolver may become immediately due and payable (the "Property Mandatory Prepayment Event"). In January 2022, the Macau government published a draft of its proposed revisions to the gaming law. The Company is monitoring developments with respect to the Macau government's concession renewal or extension process, and at this time believes that its concession will be renewed or extended beyond June 26, 2022. The failure to extend or renew the Company's concession or obtain a new concession and the resulting ability of the WML Senior Note holders to exercise the Special Put Option and triggering of the Property Mandatory Prepayment Event would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Encore Boston Harbor Real Estate Sale and Leaseback On February 15, 2022, we announced our entry into a sale-leaseback arrangement with respect to certain real estate assets related to Encore Boston Harbor. Upon closing of the related transactions, currently expected to take place in the fourth quarter of 2022 subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, we expect to receive cash consideration of approximately $1.7 billion in exchange for the sale of such real estate assets to an unrelated third party, and to concurrently enter into a lease agreement whereby the Company will lease such real estate assets for the purpose of continuing to operate the Encore Boston Harbor integrated resort. The lease agreement provides for an initial annual minimum rent of $100.0 million for an initial term of 30 years, subject to certain annual rent escalations and renewal provisions. Our Strategy We conceptualize, design, build, and operate our resorts to create unforgettable customer experiences across a diverse set of gaming and non-gaming amenities that attract a wide range of customer segments and generate strong financial results. Central to our strategy is the construction of, and regular reinvestment in, world-class integrated resorts. These activities are led by our in-house design, development, and construction subsidiary and its senior management team, which has significant experience across all major design and construction disciplines. In addition, we believe superior customer service is the best marketing strategy to attract customers and drive repeat visitation to our resorts. Human resources and staff training are essential to ensuring our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. We have been successful in attracting a wide range of premium guests both domestically and internationally. We leverage our marketing team across 4 Table of Contents branch offices located in Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, and Canada to connect with and build relationships with our customers. We continually evaluate our offerings and service levels, and as a result, have made and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to our resorts. We plan to continue to seek out new opportunities to develop and operate world-class integrated resorts and related businesses around the world. Overall, we believe Wynn Resorts has a demonstrated track record of developing and operating integrated resorts that stimulate local and regional economic activity, by attracting a wide range of customers (including high-net-worth international tourists), driving international tourism, raising average hotel room rates in the region, extending the average length of stay per visitor, complementing existing convention and meeting business with five-star accommodations and appropriately scaled meeting amenities, elevating service levels with the execution of five-star customer service, and stimulating city-wide investment and employment. Our Values Wynn Resorts thrives in the luxury hospitality industry because of our employees, who exhibit our values at every level within the Company. Our values are embodied by the following concepts: Service-Driven . We foster a culture of respect, gratitude and meticulous attention to detail that makes service to guests our life s work. Excellence . Our singular focus on being the best celebrates the inherent connection between employee and guest, company and community. Artistry . We provide a collection of guest experiences that prize artistry and championship craftsmanship, resulting in Wynn Resorts being the highest ranked hotel company in the world. Progressive . Our commitment to innovation enables us to continue evolving what it means to create and operate world-class resort destinations. Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility We are committed to our people, our communities, and our planet. Executing on our commitment to corporate social responsibility includes: Creating a five-star workplace. Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, and investing in our people. Furthering social impact initiatives in our communities. Minimizing the harm and maximizing the benefit that we have on our community and environment by utilizing and sourcing energy and materials responsibly. Elevating our corporate governance practices to ensure they appropriately support the long-term interests of our stakeholders. In North America, we have taken a leading role in the hospitality industry's transition to clean and sustainable sources of energy. Our investments in alternative energy, including on-site solar arrays and notably, a 160-acre solar facility in Northern Nevada, have earned us an invitation to join the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Green Power Partnership and a top ranking among Fortune 500 companies that voluntarily use green power to reduce air pollution and other environmental impacts associated with electricity use. We encourage our employees to avail themselves of numerous leadership and development opportunities and use our resources to assist in the education and development of the next generation of employees and leaders. We are also fully committed to supporting our communities in the Las Vegas and Boston areas, through our corporate giving program and through the Wynn Employee Foundation, which fosters charitable giving and volunteerism among Wynn employees and community partners. In Macau and across the Greater Bay Area, which is the region encompassing Macau, Hong Kong, and southern Guangdong Province, we strive to drive reinvestment in our community, encourage volunteerism, and promote responsible gaming through our Wynn Care program. Since launching this program, we have centralized our community-focused initiatives under one umbrella and meaningfully increased our involvement in various volunteer activities and community events in 5 Table of Contents Macau, the Greater Bay Area, and beyond. We are also fully committed to supporting the sustainable development of Macau and endeavor to provide our guests with a premium experience while remaining environmentally conscious by monitoring and reducing inefficient energy and resource consumption and embracing technologies that help us to responsibly use our resources. In addition, we provide our employees in Macau with numerous professional development and training opportunities to elevate core and leadership skills. Executing on Our Strategy Reflecting our strategic focus, our values, and our commitment to delivering world-class, five-star service within luxury integrated resorts, the Company has received the following recognition: Wynn Las Vegas and Encore have each earned Five-Star status on the 2021 Forbes Travel Guide ("FTG") Star Rating list and are the largest and second largest FTG Five-Star resorts in the world, respectively. Wynn Palace, originally earning FTG Five-Star status in 2018, is the third largest. Collectively, Wynn Resorts earned more FTG Five-Star awards than any other independent hotel company in the world in 2021. Wynn Palace garnered seven individual FTG Five-Star awards in 2021. Wynn Macau continues to be the only resort in the world with eight individual FTG Five-Star awards in 2021. Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace are the most decorated integrated resort brands in Asia with fifteen FTG Five-Star awards combined. Wynn Las Vegas and Encore collectively received seven FTG Five-Star awards in 2021, the most of any resorts in North America. Wynn Resorts was once again honored to be included on FORTUNE Magazine's 2021 World's Most Admired Companies list in the hotel, casino, and resort category and ranked first overall in the category of Quality of Products/ Services among all international hotel companies. Wynn Las Vegas has received Four Green Globes, the highest certification for energy-efficient and sustainable buildings from the Green Building Initiative. Encore Boston Harbor has been certified LEED Platinum, the U.S. Green Building Council's highest level of certification. Our Resorts We present the operating results of our four resorts in the following segments: Wynn Palace, Wynn Macau, Las Vegas Operations, and Encore Boston Harbor. We generally experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, including from such factors as the timing of major conventions and holidays; however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. As previously discussed, the COVID-19 pandemic has had and will likely continue to have a material impact on our resorts. Wynn Palace We opened Wynn Palace in August 2016, on Macau's Cotai Strip, conveniently located minutes from both Macau International Airport and the Macau Taipa Ferry Terminal and directly adjacent to a stop serviced by Macau's light rail system. The property features approximately 424,000 square feet of casino space with up to 323 table games and 1,035 slot machines available, of which 676 are currently in use, as well as private gaming salons and sky casinos. Wynn Palace also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 1,706 guest rooms, suites, and villas, offering a health club, spa, salon, and pool. In addition, Wynn Palace offers 14 food and beverage outlets, approximately 107,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 37,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. The property's signature public attractions and entertainment offerings include a performance lake, a gondola ride offering convenient street-level access, and an exceptional display of Western and Asian art. We have continued with the design stages of developing the second phase of expansion of Wynn Palace. We currently expect that the next phase of our development at Wynn Palace will become a unique world-class cultural destination, incorporating an array of non-gaming amenities such as event space, interactive entertainment installations, food and beverage offerings, and additional hotel rooms. 6 Table of Contents Wynn Macau We opened Wynn Macau in September 2006, and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Macau, in April 2010. Located in the heart of downtown Macau, the property features approximately 252,000 square feet of casino space with up to 331 table games and 818 slot machines available, of which 583 are currently in use, as well as private gaming salons, sky casinos, and a poker room. Wynn Macau also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 1,010 guest rooms and suites, offering two health clubs, two spas, a salon and a pool. In addition, Wynn Macau offers 14 food and beverage outlets, approximately 59,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 31,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Wynn Macau's signature attractions include a performance lake and a rotunda show featuring a Chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold "tree of prosperity" and "dragon of fortune" features. In November 2019, we opened the first phase of our Lakeside Casino expansion at Wynn Macau which features 44 mass market table games and a refurbished high-limit slot area. We substantially completed the second phase, which will include two new restaurants and approximately 7,000 square feet of additional retail space, in December 2019, and expect to open portions of the second phase in the near future, depending on market conditions and other factors. Las Vegas Operations We opened Wynn Las Vegas in April 2005 and Encore, an expansion of Wynn Las Vegas, in December 2008. Wynn Las Vegas is located at the intersection of the Las Vegas Strip and Sands Avenue, and occupies approximately 215 acres of land fronting the Las Vegas Strip. The property features approximately 194,000 square feet of casino space with 223 table games and 1,751 slot machines, as well as private gaming salons, a sky casino, a poker room, and a race and sports book. Wynn Las Vegas also features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,748 guest rooms, suites, and villas, which offers swimming pools, private cabanas, two full service spas and salons, and a wedding chapel. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas offers 32 food and beverage outlets, approximately 155,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail space, and approximately 513,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Our nightlife and entertainment offerings at Wynn Las Vegas include three nightclubs and a beach club, and two theaters presenting entertainment productions and various headliner entertainment acts. In October 2019, we reopened the newly reconfigured Wynn Las Vegas golf course, which had been closed since 2017. Encore Boston Harbor On June 23, 2019, we opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated resort in Everett, Massachusetts, adjacent to Boston along the Mystic River. The property features approximately 211,000 square feet of casino space with 184 table games and approximately 2,766 slot machines, private and high-limit gaming areas, and a poker room. Encore Boston Harbor also features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 671 guest rooms and suites, which offers a spa and salon. In addition, Encore Boston Harbor offers 15 food and beverage outlets and a nightclub, approximately 10,000 square feet of retail space, and approximately 71,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Public attractions include a waterfront park, floral displays, and water shuttle service to downtown Boston. Future Development Projects In January 2022, we, along with Al Marjan Island and RAK Hospitality, announced plans for the development and management of a destination integrated resort property on Island 3, Al Marjan Island in the Emirate of Ras al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates. The project is anticipated to be completed and open to the public in 2026, featuring an over 1,000-room hotel, a high-end shopping mall, a state-of-the-art meeting and convention facility, an exclusive spa, more than 10 restaurants and lounges, a wide array of entertainment choices, a gaming area (subject to regulatory approval), and other amenities. The planned integrated resort will leverage Wynn Resorts' expertise in developing and operating luxury hospitality destinations, and is expected to create substantial value to the local economy by accelerating tourism, creating jobs, and contributing to the growth of related sectors. Wynn Interactive Wynn Resorts holds an approximately 74% interest in, and consolidates, Wynn Interactive. Wynn Interactive's subsidiary operates the digital sports betting app, WynnBET, which is currently operational in New Jersey, Colorado, Michigan, Virginia, 7 Table of Contents Indiana, Arizona, Tennessee, New York, and Louisiana. The results of Wynn Interactive's operations are presented within the Wynn Interactive reportable segment. Market and Competition The casino resort industry is highly competitive. We compete with other high-quality resorts located near our properties on the basis of the range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. We seek to differentiate our integrated resorts by delivering superior design and customer service. Macau Macau, located in the Greater Bay Area, is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of Hong Kong. Notwithstanding certain COVID-19 pandemic-related travel restrictions that remain in place, the journey between Macau and Hong Kong takes approximately 15 minutes by helicopter, 30 minutes by road via the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge, and one hour by jetfoil ferry. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 50 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, between which the Cotai area is located. In addition to Wynn Resorts (Macau) S.A. ("Wynn Macau SA"), SJM Holdings Limited ("SJM"), Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited ("Galaxy"), Sands China Ltd. ("Sands"), Melco International Development Limited ("Melco"), and MGM China Holdings Limited ("MGM China") are permitted to operate casinos in Macau, with a total of 42 casinos currently in operation. Macau's gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists, typically traveling from nearby destinations in Asia. Visitation to Macau grew significantly in recent years, but has fallen meaningfully since the outbreak of COVID-19, primarily due to certain border control and other travel related restrictions put in place as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, tourist arrivals in Macau decreased 80.4% in 2021 compared to 2019. Beginning in June 2020, certain restrictions and conditions have eased to allow for visitation to Macau as some regions continue to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Visitation to Macau increased by 30.7% from 5.9 million in 2020 to 7.7 million in 2021. Travel to Macau by citizens of the PRC requires a visa. We believe that the Macau region hosts one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming and tourism customers. According to Macau Statistical Information, annual gaming revenues were $36.5 billion in 2019, before falling to $7.6 billion in 2020 and $10.8 billion in 2021, respectively, due to various quarantine measures and travel and entry restrictions and conditions since the outbreak of COVID-19. We continue to believe that, despite the current challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, Macau's stated goal of becoming a world-class tourism destination will continue to drive additional visitation to the market and create future opportunities for us to invest and grow. Our Macau Operations face competition primarily from the 40 other casinos located throughout Macau in addition to casinos located throughout the world, including Singapore, South Korea, the Philippines, Vietnam, Cambodia, Malaysia, Australia, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Additionally, certain other Asian countries and regions have legalized or in the future may legalize gaming, such as Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, which could increase competition for our Macau Operations. Las Vegas Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States. The Las Vegas gaming market is highly competitive and is largely dependent on tourist arrivals and meeting and convention-related visitation. Las Vegas Strip gaming revenues increased significantly during the year ended December 31, 2021 due to increases in gaming volumes and visitation to the Las Vegas Strip during the recovery from government-mandated shutdowns during 2020 and other business interruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to statistics published by the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas Strip total gaming win was $7.1 billion in 2021, a 91.9% increase from $3.7 billion in 2020. Overall Las Vegas visitor volume was 32.2 million in 2021, a 69.5% increase from 19.0 million in 2020, but still 24.2% lower than visitor volume of 42.5 million experienced in 2019, prior to the outbreak of COVID-19. Occupancy on the Las Vegas Strip increased 25.9% to 68.0%, from 42.1% in 2020, compared with 90.4% in 2019. Convention attendees increased 27.7% in 2021, after a 74.0% decrease in 2020 during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, following year-over-year increases of 7.1%, 3.0%, and 2.3% from 2017 to 2019, respectively. 8 Table of Contents Our Las Vegas Operations are located on the Las Vegas Strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in Las Vegas. There are currently several large-scale integrated resort projects either recently completed or under development in the vicinity of our Las Vegas Operations, which may present increased competition in the future. Our Las Vegas Operations also compete, to some extent, with other casino resorts throughout the United States and elsewhere in the world. Massachusetts Massachusetts and its neighboring states of Connecticut and Rhode Island are host to a large, established casino market that generated over $2.8 billion of gross gaming revenue in 2021, and over $2.5 billion of gross gaming revenue in 2019 before the outbreak of COVID-19. The greater Boston metropolitan area is the largest population center in New England, with a population of approximately 5 million residents. Gaming in the New England region is characterized by a high degree of competition, based largely on location, product quality, service levels, and effectiveness in marketing to and establishing relationships with repeat visitors located in the area. Encore Boston Harbor competes with both commercial and Native