Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 17 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2 Properties 24 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6 [Reserved] 26 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 81 Item 9B Other Information 82 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 82 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 82 Item 11 Executive Compensation 82 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 82 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 82 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 82 PART IV Item 15 Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 88 Signatures 89 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Definitions of Abbreviations Xcel Energy Inc. s Subsidiaries and Affiliates (current and former) Capital Services Capital Services, LLC Eloigne Eloigne Company e prime e prime inc. NSP-Minnesota Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation NSP System The electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin operated on an integrated basis and managed by NSP-Minnesota NSP-Wisconsin Northern States Power Company, a Wisconsin corporation Operating companies NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS PSCo Public Service Company of Colorado SPS Southwestern Public Service Co. Utility subsidiaries NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS WGI WestGas InterState, Inc. WYCO WYCO Development, LLC Xcel Energy Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries Federal and State Regulatory Agencies CPUC Colorado Public Utilities Commission DOC Minnesota Department of Commerce DOE United States Department of Energy DOT United States Department of Transportation EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission IRS Internal Revenue Service MPSC Michigan Public Service Commission MPUC Minnesota Public Utilities Commission NDPSC North Dakota Public Service Commission NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NMPRC New Mexico Public Regulation Commission NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PSCW Public Service Commission of Wisconsin PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas SEC Securities and Exchange Commission TCEQ Texas Commission on Environmental Quality Electric, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment Clauses CIP Conservation improvement program DSM Demand side management ECA Retail electric commodity adjustment FCA Fuel clause adjustment GCA Gas cost adjustment GUIC Gas utility infrastructure cost rider PSIA Pipeline system integrity adjustment RES Renewable energy standard TCR Transmission cost recovery Other AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction ALJ Administrative Law Judge ARO Asset retirement obligation ASC FASB Accounting Standards Codification ATM At-the-market BART Best available retrofit technology C I Commercial and Industrial CAGR Corporate annual growth rate CapX2020 Alliance of electric cooperatives, municipals and investor-owned utilities in the upper Midwest involved in a joint transmission line planning and construction effort CCR Coal combustion residuals CCR Rule Final rule (40 CFR 257.50 - 257.107) published by the EPA regulating the management, storage and disposal of CCRs as a nonhazardous waste CDD Cooling degree-days CEO Chief executive officer CFO Chief financial officer CIG Colorado Interstate Gas Company, LLC COEO Colorado Energy Office CON Certificate of Need COVID-19 Novel coronavirus CUB Citizens Utility Board CWA Clean Water Act CWIP Construction work in progress D.C. Circuit United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit DECON Decommissioning method where radioactive contamination is removed and safely disposed of at a requisite facility or decontaminated to a permitted level DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Program EEI Edison Electric Institute EIP Energy Impact Partners ELG Effluent limitations guidelines EMANI European Mutual Association for Nuclear Insurance EPS Earnings per share ESG Environmental, Social and Governance ETR Effective tax rate EVs Electric Vehicles FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board Fifth Circuit United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit FTR Financial transmission right GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles GE General Electric GHG Greenhouse gas HDD Heating degree-days INPO Institute of Nuclear Power Operations IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPP Independent power producing entity ISO Independent System Operator ITC Investment Tax Credit LP L Lubbock Power Light MEC Mankato Energy Center MGP Manufactured gas plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standard Native load Demand of retail and wholesale customers that a utility has an obligation to serve under statute or contract NAV Net asset value NEIL Nuclear Electric Insurance Ltd. NOL Net operating loss NOPR Notice of proposed rulemaking O M Operating and maintenance OAG Minnesota Office of the Attorney General OATT Open Access Transmission Tariff PFAS Per- and PolyFluoroAlkyl Substances PI Prairie Island nuclear generating plant Post-65 Post-Medicare PPA Purchased power agreement Pre-65 Pre-Medicare PTC Production tax credit REC Renewable energy credit 3 Table of Contents ROE Return on equity ROU Right-of-use RTO Regional Transmission Organization S P Standard Poor s Global Ratings SERP Supplemental executive retirement plan SMMPA Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency SO 2 Sulfur dioxide SPP Southwest Power Pool, Inc. TCJA 2017 federal tax reform enacted as Public Law No: 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act THI Temperature-humidity index TO Transmission owner TSR Total shareholder return VaR Value at Risk VIE Variable interest entity Measurements Bcf Billion cubic feet KV Kilovolts KWh Kilowatt hours MMBtu Million British thermal units MW Megawatts MWh Megawatt hours Where to Find More Information Xcel Energy s website address is www.xcelenergy.com. Xcel Energy makes available, free of charge through its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically at http://www.sec.gov. The information on Xcel Energy s website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this annual report on Form 10-K. Xcel Energy intends to make future announcements regarding Company developments and financial performance through its website, www.xcelenergy.com, as well as through press releases, filings with the SEC, conference calls and webcasts. Forward-Looking Statements Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters discussed herein are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements, including those relating to 2022 EPS guidance, long-term EPS and dividend growth rate objectives, future sales, future expenses, future tax rates, future operating performance, estimated base capital expenditures and financing plans, projected capital additions and forecasted annual revenue requirements with respect to rider filings, expected rate increases to customers, expectations and intentions regarding regulatory proceedings, and expected impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of resettlement calculations and credit losses relating to certain energy transactions, as well as assumptions and other statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, outlook, plan, project, possible, potential, should, will, would and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2021 (including risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy Inc. in reports filed with the SEC, including Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K hereto), could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: uncertainty around the impacts and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including potential workforce impacts resulting from vaccination requirements, quarantine policies or government restrictions, and sales volatility; operational safety, including our nuclear generation facilities and other utility operations; successful long-term operational planning; commodity risks associated with energy markets and production; rising energy prices and fuel costs; qualified employee work force and third-party contractor factors; violations of our Codes of Conduct; ability to recover costs; changes in regulation and subsidiaries ability to recover costs from customers; reductions in our credit ratings and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships; general economic conditions, including inflation rates, monetary fluctuations, supply chain constraints and their impact on capital expenditures and/or the ability of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; availability or cost of capital; our customers and counterparties ability to pay their debts to us; assumptions and costs relating to funding our employee benefit plans and health care benefits; our subsidiaries ability to make dividend payments; tax laws; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; cyber security threats and data security breaches; seasonal weather patterns; changes in environmental laws and regulations; climate change and other weather; natural disaster and resource depletion, including compliance with any accompanying legislative and regulatory changes; costs of potential regulatory penalties; and regulatory changes and/or limitations related to the use of natural gas as an energy source. 4 Table of Contents Overview Xcel Energy (the Company ) is a major U.S. regulated electric and natural gas delivery company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota (incorporated in Minnesota in 1909). Xcel Energy serves customers in eight mid-western and western states, including portions of Colorado, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Texas and Wisconsin. Xcel Energy provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to approximately 3.7 million electric customers and 2.1 million natural gas customers through four utility subsidiaries (i.e., NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS). Along with the utility subsidiaries, the transmission-only subsidiaries, WYCO (a joint venture formed with CIG to develop and lease natural gas pipelines, storage and compression facilities) and WGI (an interstate natural gas pipeline company) comprise the regulated utility operations. Xcel Energy s nonregulated subsidiaries include Eloigne, Capital Services, Venture Holdings and Nicollet Project Holdings. Utility Subsidiaries Service Territory Electric customers 3.7 million Natural gas customers 2.1 million Total assets $57.9 billion Electric generating capacity 20,653 MW Natural gas storage capacity 53.4 Bcf Electric transmission lines (conductor miles) 111,434 miles Electric distribution lines (conductor miles) 210,470 miles Natural gas transmission lines 2,293 miles Natural gas distribution lines 36,510 miles Strategy Xcel Energy strives to be the preferred and trusted provider of the energy our customers need, while offering a competitive total return to shareholders. We deliver on our vision through three strategic priorities: LEAD THE CLEAN ENERGY TRANSITION ENHANCE THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE KEEP BILLS LOW Sustainability is embedded in our strategy. We are retiring coal plants, adding renewables, exploring new technologies and helping to electrify other sectors, while maintaining customer affordability and supporting our employees and communities. We are the first U.S. energy provider to set aggressive goals for reducing GHG emissions across three large sectors of the economy: electricity, natural gas use in buildings and transportation. Our sustainability commitments include: (1) Includes owned and purchased electricity provided to customers. (2) Spans natural gas supply, distribution and customer use; includes net-zero methane emissions on our natural gas system by 2030. We demonstrate environmental, social and governance leadership by engaging with stakeholders and mitigating risk, while staying committed to our customers, employees and communities. 5 Table of Contents Rooted in a culture of compliance and ethical conduct, our decisions and actions are guided by our Code of Conduct and our four values: Connected Committed Safe Trustworthy These values are reinforced by policies that govern safety practices, ethical standards and conduct, environmental performance, diversity and inclusion, political contributions, and other aspects of our business. Our values, culture and Code of Conduct serve as the foundation upon which Xcel Energy s Board of Directors, employees, contractors and suppliers approach their work in delivering on our three strategic priorities. Lead the Clean Energy Transition For more than a decade, Xcel Energy has proactively managed the risk of climate change and worked to meet increasing demand for cleaner energy. Xcel Energy was the first major U.S. utility to establish a carbon-free vision, targeting 100% carbon-free electricity by 2050 and an interim goal of 80% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 (from 2005 levels), including owned and purchased power. A lead author for the IPCC confirmed that our vision aligns with science-based scenarios likely to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius from pre-industrial levels. Goal includes owned and purchased power. The pace of achieving a carbon-free vision is governed by reliability and customer affordability. Our filed resource plans outline a clear, transparent path to achieve an 80% carbon reduction using current technologies, while maintaining customer bill increases at or below the rate of inflation. Moving from 80% carbon reduction to 100% carbon-free electricity will require new dispatchable and scalable technologies that are economically viable, as well as supportive public policy. Resiliency and innovation also remain paramount to a successful transition, as does the economic vitality of our communities. As we prepare for early coal plant retirements, we provide employees advanced notice and offer retraining and relocation opportunities, with no layoffs to date. We also help attract and make investments to offset community economic impacts. Xcel Energy has a long track record of working with our communities on energy, climate and environmental initiatives that impact them and has publicly committed to furthering environmental justice. We consistently set aggressive goals and hold ourselves accountable to our customers, communities and investors, as well as, to our own values. Xcel Energy instituted oversight of environmental performance by the Board of Directors beginning in 2000 and was among the first U.S. utilities to tie carbon reduction to executive compensation over fifteen years ago. Through 2021, we reduced carbon emissions from generation serving customers by an estimated 50% (from 2005 levels) and remain on track to achieve 80% carbon reduction by 2030. Other notable environmental improvements include: Results from owned generation except for water, which includes owned and purchased power. * Coal ash reduction is as of 2020. Xcel Energy has provided a voluntary, third-party verified annual GHG disclosure since 2005, longer than any other U.S. utility. We are a founding member of The Climate Registry and a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. Our disclosures also align with the Global Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals frameworks. Since year-end 2020, we have completed four wind farms, adding ~800 MW (includes the Dakota Range project which went in service in January 2022) of owned wind to our system that provides significant environmental benefits and cost savings for our customers. Xcel Energy s wind capacity is now over 11,000 MW, including nearly 4,500 MW of owned wind. By 2030, we project that approximately 80% of our energy will come from carbon-free resources. Based on resource plans filed in Minnesota and Colorado, Xcel Energy anticipates nearly 10,000 MW of additional renewables over the next decade, and expects to be coal-free by 2034. Colorado resource plan settlement pending CPUC approval 87% carbon reduction by 2030 and full coal exit by 2034. ~3,900 MW of wind and solar additions. ~1,700 MW of flexible resources and storage. ~1,200 MW of distributed solar generation. Minnesota resource plan approved by MPUC 85% carbon reduction and full coal exit by 2030. 4,650 MW of wind and solar additions by 2032; the plan includes an additional 1,100 MW of renewables beyond 2032. Transmission infrastructure to connect new renewables to the grid. Extension of the Monticello nuclear plant through 2040. ~3,800 MW of firm peaking capacity for reliability before 2030, including hydrogen-ready combustion turbines, the combustion turbines will need to go through a CON process. Additional ~2,100 MW of firm capacity and storage post 2030, to be addressed in future proceedings. Texas and New Mexico Proposed full coal exit by 2034 upon early retirement of our Tolk plant. Conversion of our Harrington coal plant to natural gas. 6 Table of Contents We plan to limit coal usage through dispatching units seasonally where possible. Natural gas and other dispatchable resources will be used as needed for reliability and resiliency as more renewables come on the system. Significant transmission expansion will be required to enable future renewables. Our Pathway project (if approved) in Colorado will provide over 560 miles of transmission lines and enable nearly 5,500 MW of new renewables, including access to some of the region s richest wind resources. We also anticipate expansion in the Upper Midwest over the next decade as part of MISO s transmission expansion planning effort, creating investment opportunity. Our clean energy leadership encompasses our natural gas business as well. In 2021, we committed to reduce GHG emissions by 25% by 2030 from 2020 levels and deliver net-zero natural gas service by 2050, including customer use. Plans include: Influencing suppliers - pursue certified low/no net emissions supply. Operating the cleanest possible system incorporate clean fuels. Offering customer options encourage electrification, where beneficial. Xcel Energy s leadership also extends beyond our electric and gas businesses to other parts of the economy. In addition to transitioning our own generation fleet, we are helping to decarbonize other sectors, starting with transportation. We aim to enable 1.5 million EVs across our states by 2030, representing a nearly $2 billion investment, 0.6% to 0.7% incremental annual retail sales growth and avoidance of roughly 5 million tons of CO 2 emissions annually. Enhance the Customer Experience Xcel Energy has a comprehensive suite of renewable and conservation programs that provide customers with clean energy options and help keep their bills low. We are also transforming and expanding our electric grid to accommodate increased load growth, renewable energy and distributed energy resources. In 2021, Xcel Energy installed over 300,000 smart meters and plans to install more than one million in 2022. Xcel Energy also launched 12 EV programs for residential and commercial customers, received approval of our New Mexico plan, and continued to prepare for increased levels of EV adoption across our states. For our local communities, we initiated 20 economic development projects in 2021, which are projected to lead to over $1 billion in capital investments and 5,000 jobs. Additionally, over 60% of our supply chain spend was local. Keep Bills Low Customer affordability is critical to successful strategy execution and we are working to keep bill increases at or below the rate of inflation. Since 2013, we have managed average residential bill growth to below 1% annually, with electric and natural gas bill increases of 0.8% and 0.3%, respectively. Xcel Energy has invested more than $2 billion over the past decade in a comprehensive suite of conservation programs. We have kept O M expenses flat since 2014, while adding significant renewables and without compromising safety or reliability. Xcel Energy continues to prudently invest in appropriate areas consistent with its continuing commitment to minimize costs through ongoing process and technology improvements. Our geographic advantages in wind and solar also enable customer savings, which we call our Steel for Fuel strategy. High capacity factors, coupled with renewable tax credits and avoided fuel costs, enable Xcel Energy to add renewables while saving customers money. To date, we have delivered more than $1.8 billion in customer savings by adding owned wind to our system. In addition to continued savings from economic renewables, disciplined cost control and future coal plant retirements, we anticipate sales growth from electric vehicles will help keep bills low for all customers in the long term, as well as provide customers with annual fuel savings (equivalent cost per gallon for fueling with electricity vs. gasoline) of approximately $1 billion by 2030. Deliver a Competitive Total Return to Investors Successful strategy execution, along with our disciplined approach to growth, operations and management of environmental, social and governance issues, positions us to continue delivering a competitive TSR. We have consistently achieved our financial objectives, meeting or exceeding our initial earnings guidance range for 17 consecutive years and delivering dividend growth for 18 consecutive years. Over the past five years, GAAP earnings have grown by 6% annually and our annual dividend growth was 6.1%. Xcel Energy works to maintain senior secured debt credit ratings in the A range and senior unsecured debt credit ratings in the BBB+ to A range. Current ratings are consistent with this goal. Human Capital Xcel Energy employees are the driving force behind our Company s success. Our strategic, data-driven approach to workforce planning helps ensure we will continue to have the skills and capabilities required to meet the evolving needs of our business, customers and communities. We are also deeply committed to diversity, equity, human rights and safety. Safety Continuously elevating the quality and safety of the workplace is a top priority. We are considered a benchmark company for our Safety Always approach, focused on eliminating life-altering injuries through a trusted, transparent culture and the use of critical controls. All employees have stop work authority and are expected to keep each other, our customers and the public safe. Employees are encouraged to speak up, share experiences and learn from events to help protect themselves, their coworkers and the public. The Board of Directors has oversight for employee and public safety through the Operations, Nuclear, Environmental and Safety committee, both of which are also tied to annual incentive compensation. 7 Table of Contents Benefits Xcel Energy offers a competitive benefits package, including: performance-based compensation, supported by a management system that emphasizes ongoing coaching conversations. Benefits also include floating holidays and recognition, retirement and holistic well-being programs. Management continuously evaluates benefits to maintain a market competitive, performance-based, shareholder-aligned total rewards package that supports our ability to attract, engage and retain a talented and diverse workforce, while reinforcing and rewarding strong performance. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Human Rights We aim to create an inclusive culture where employees are treated equitably, and diversity is not only accepted but celebrated. This starts with our Board of Directors, of which eight members were elected in the past five years. The Board of Directors oversees our workforce strategy, including diversity and inclusion initiatives. In 2021, Xcel Energy added an incentive-based metric focused on diverse interview panels, executive sponsorship and employee feedback on inclusion in the workplace. A total of 70% of annual incentive pay was tied to safety, system reliability and diversity, equity and inclusion metrics. In 2021, nearly all offers made had diverse hiring panels and executive sponsors consistently met with their employee counterparts at least monthly. We have also disclosed our Equal Employment Opportunity Employer Information Report (EEO-1). Our CEO and senior executives lead by example, fostering an open and inclusive work environment through their interactions, communications and personal sponsorship of diverse talent throughout the organization. We partner with educational and community organizations to attract and hire diverse employees who reflect the communities we serve and live our values. Workforce demographics as of December 2021 (unless otherwise noted): Female Ethnically Diverse Board of Directors (a) 23 % 15 % CEO direct reports (a) 36 % 18 % Management 22 % 11 % Employees 24 % 17 % New hires 39 % 26 % Interns (hired throughout 2021) 34 % 27 % (a) Demographics as of Feb. 1, 2022. Veteran hiring is also a focus, with roughly 10% of employees having served in the military. To help foster a culture of inclusivity, leaders and employees receive training on microinequities and unconscious bias. The Company hosts 11 business resource groups to support employee interests and obtain diverse perspectives when solving challenges and achieving goals. Xcel Energy also respects employees freedom of association and their right to collectively organize. As of Dec. 31, 2021, approximately 44% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements Total Full-Time Employees NSP-Minnesota 2,020 3,083 NSP-Wisconsin 382 518 PSCo 1,818 2,314 SPS 736 1,099 XES 4,307 Total 4,956 11,321 Employee turnover for 2021 and future projected retirement eligibility: Employee Turnover Retirement Eligibility Bargaining 7 % Within next 5 years 26 % Non-Bargaining 15 % Within next 10 years 40 % Overall (a) 12 % (a) 31% of turnover was due to retirements. Xcel Energy has publicly confirmed our commitment to the advancement and protection of human rights, consistent with U.S. human rights laws and the general principles in the International Labour Organization Conventions. Code of Conduct training is required for all employees annually and the Board of Directors. The Company does not tolerate Code violations or other unacceptable behaviors. We expect and offer employees multiple avenues to raise concerns or report wrong-doing and do not permit any retaliation. Xcel Energy recently received the following recognitions: Fortune Human Rights Campaign GI Jobs Military Times World s Most Admired Companies Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality Military Friendly Employer Best for Vets 8 Table of Contents Utility Subsidiaries NSP-Minnesota Electric customers 1.5 million NSP-Minnesota conducts business in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota and has electric operations in all three states including the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin electric operations are managed on the NSP System. NSP-Minnesota also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas in Minnesota and North Dakota. Natural gas customers 0.5 million Total assets $22.8 billion Rate Base (estimated) $13.7 billion ROE (net income / average stockholder's equity) 8.45% Electric generating capacity 8,628 MW Gas storage capacity 17.1 Bcf Electric transmission lines (conductor miles) 34,155 miles Electric distribution lines (conductor miles) 81,406 miles Natural gas transmission lines 85 miles Natural gas distribution lines 10,741 miles NSP-Wisconsin Electric customers 0.3 million NSP-Wisconsin conducts business in Wisconsin and Michigan and generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin electric operations are managed on the NSP System. NSP-Wisconsin also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas. Natural gas customers 0.1 million Total assets $3.1 billion Rate Base (estimated) $2.0 billion ROE (net income / average stockholder's equity) 9.92% Electric generating capacity 548 MW Gas sto