Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 16 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C Cybersecurity 23 Item 2 Properties 24 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6 [Reserved] 26 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 81 Item 9B Other Information 81 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 81 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 81 Item 11 Executive Compensation 81 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 82 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 82 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 82 PART IV Item 15 Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 89 Signatures 90 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Definitions of Abbreviations Xcel Energy Inc. s Subsidiaries and Affiliates (current and former) Capital Services Capital Services, LLC Eloigne Eloigne Company e prime e prime inc. Nicollet Project Holdings Nicollet Project Holdings, LLC NSP-Minnesota Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation NSP System The electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin operated on an integrated basis and managed by NSP-Minnesota NSP-Wisconsin Northern States Power Company, a Wisconsin corporation Operating companies NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS PSCo Public Service Company of Colorado SPS Southwestern Public Service Co. Utility subsidiaries NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS WGI WestGas InterState, Inc. WYCO WYCO Development, LLC Xcel Energy Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries Federal and State Regulatory Agencies CPUC Colorado Public Utilities Commission DOC Minnesota Department of Commerce DOE United States Department of Energy DOT United States Department of Transportation EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission IRS Internal Revenue Service MPCA Minnesota Pollution Control Agency MPUC Minnesota Public Utilities Commission NDPSC North Dakota Public Service Commission NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NMPRC New Mexico Public Regulation Commission NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission OAG Minnesota Office of Attorney General PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PSCW Public Service Commission of Wisconsin PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas SDPUC South Dakota Public Utility Commission SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Electric, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment Clauses CIP Conservation improvement program DSM Demand side management ECA Retail electric commodity adjustment FCA Fuel clause adjustment GCA Gas cost adjustment GUIC Gas utility infrastructure cost rider RES Renewable energy standard Other AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AMI Advanced metering infrastructure ALJ Administrative Law Judge ARO Asset retirement obligation ARRR Application for Rehearing, Reargument, or Reconsideration ASC Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification ATM At-the-market BART Best available retrofit technology C I Commercial and Industrial CapX2020 Alliance of electric cooperatives, municipals and investor-owned utilities in the upper Midwest involved in a joint transmission line planning and construction effort CCN Certificates of Convenience and Necessity CCR Coal combustion residuals CCR Rule Final rule (40 CFR 257.50 - 257.107) published by the EPA regulating the management, storage and disposal of CCRs as a nonhazardous waste CDD Cooling degree-days CEO Chief executive officer CFO Chief financial officer CIG Colorado Interstate Gas Company, LLC CON Certificate of Need CSPV Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic CWIP Construction work in progress D.C. Circuit United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit DECON Decommissioning method where radioactive contamination is removed and safely disposed of at a requisite facility or decontaminated to a permitted level DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Program EEI Edison Electric Institute EIP Energy Impact Partners EMANI European Mutual Association for Nuclear Insurance EPS Earnings per share ETR Effective tax rate FTR Financial transmission right GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles GE General Electric GHG Greenhouse gas HDD Heating degree-days INPO Institute of Nuclear Power Operations IPP Independent power producing entity IRP Integrated Resource Plan ISO Independent System Operator ITC Investment Tax Credit JTIQ Joint Target Interconnection Queue LP L Lubbock Power Light MGP Manufactured gas plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. Native load Demand of retail and wholesale customers that a utility has an obligation to serve under statute or contract NAV Net asset value NEIL Nuclear Electric Insurance Ltd. NOL Net operating loss NOx Nitrogen Oxides O M Operating and maintenance OATT Open Access Transmission Tariff ONES Operations, Nuclear, Environmental and Safety PFAS Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances PI Prairie Island nuclear generating plant PIM Performance Incentive Mechanism Post-65 Post-Medicare PPA Power purchase agreement Pre-65 Pre-Medicare PTC Production tax credit RDF Refuse-derived fuel REC Renewable energy credit RFP Request for proposal ROE Return on equity 3 Table of Contents ROU Right-of-use RTO Regional Transmission Organization S P Standard Poor s Global Ratings SERP Supplemental executive retirement plan SPP Southwest Power Pool, Inc. TCJA 2017 federal tax reform enacted as Public Law No: 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act THI Temperature-humidity index TSR Total shareholder return VaR Value at Risk VIE Variable interest entity WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital Measurements Bcf Billion cubic feet KV Kilovolts KWh Kilowatt hours MMBtu Million British thermal units MW Megawatts MWh Megawatt hours Where to Find More Information Xcel Energy s website address is www.xcelenergy.com. Xcel Energy makes available through its website, free of charge, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically at http://www.sec.gov. The information on Xcel Energy s website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this annual report on Form 10-K. Xcel Energy intends to make future announcements regarding Company developments and financial performance through its website, www.xcelenergy.com, as well as through press releases, filings with the SEC, conference calls and webcasts. Forward-Looking Statements Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters discussed herein are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements, including those relating to 2024 EPS guidance, long-term EPS and dividend growth rate objectives, future sales, future expenses, future tax rates, future operating performance, estimated base capital expenditures and financing plans, projected capital additions and forecasted annual revenue requirements with respect to rider filings, expected rate increases to customers, expectations and intentions regarding regulatory proceedings, and expected impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of resettlement calculations and credit losses relating to certain energy transactions, as well as assumptions and other statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, outlook, plan, project, possible, potential, should, will, would and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2023 (including risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy Inc. in reports filed with the SEC, including Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: operational safety, including our nuclear generation facilities and other utility operations; successful long-term operational planning; commodity risks associated with energy markets and production; rising energy prices and fuel costs; qualified employee workforce and third-party contractor factors; violations of our Codes of Conduct; our ability to recover costs and our subsidiaries ability to recover costs from customers; changes in regulation; reductions in our credit ratings and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships; general economic conditions, including recessionary conditions, inflation rates, monetary fluctuations, supply chain constraints and their impact on capital expenditures and/or the ability of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; availability or cost of capital; our customers and counterparties ability to pay their debts to us; assumptions and costs relating to funding our employee benefit plans and health care benefits; our subsidiaries ability to make dividend payments; tax laws; uncertainty regarding epidemics, the duration and magnitude of business restrictions including shutdowns (domestically and globally), the potential impact on the workforce, including shortages of employees or third-party contractors due to quarantine policies, vaccination requirements or government restrictions, impacts on the transportation of goods and the generalized impact on the economy; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; cybersecurity threats and data security breaches; seasonal weather patterns; changes in environmental laws and regulations; climate change and other weather events; natural disaster and resource depletion, including compliance with any accompanying legislative and regulatory changes; costs of potential regulatory penalties and wildfire damages in excess of liability insurance coverage; regulatory changes and/or limitations related to the use of natural gas as an energy source; challenging labor market conditions and our ability to attract and retain a qualified workforce; and our ability to execute on our strategies or achieve expectations related to environmental, social and governance matters including as a result of evolving legal, regulatory and other standards, processes, and assumptions, the pace of scientific and technological developments, increased costs, the availability of requisite financing, and changes in carbon markets. Overview Xcel Energy (the Company ) is a major U.S. regulated electric and natural gas delivery company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota (incorporated in Minnesota in 1909). The Company serves customers in eight states, including portions of Colorado, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Texas and Wisconsin. Xcel Energy provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to approximately 3.8 million electric customers and 2.2 million natural gas customers through four utility subsidiaries (i.e., NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS). Along with the utility subsidiaries, the transmission-only subsidiaries, WYCO (a joint venture formed with CIG to develop and lease natural gas pipelines, storage and compression facilities) and WGI (an interstate natural gas pipeline company) comprise the regulated utility operations. The Company s nonregulated subsidiaries include Eloigne, Capital Services, Venture Holdings and Nicollet Project Holdings. 4 Table of Contents Subsidiary / Affiliate Function NSP-Minnesota Electric Gas NSP-Wisconsin Electric Gas PSCo Electric Gas SPS Electric WGI Interstate gas pipeline WYCO Gas storage and transportation Other Subsidiaries See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Utility Subsidiary Overview Electric customers 3.8 million Natural gas customers 2.2 million Total assets $64 billion Electric generating capacity 20,935 MW Natural gas storage capacity 53.5 Bcf Electric transmission lines (conductor miles) 111,000 miles Electric distribution lines (conductor miles) 216,000 miles Natural gas transmission lines 2,200 miles Natural gas distribution lines 37,000 miles Service Territory Strategy Xcel Energy s vision is to be the preferred and trusted provider of the energy our customers need. We will deliver on this vision while offering a competitive total return to shareholders. Our mission is to provide our customers with safe, clean, reliable energy services they want and value at a competitive price. We execute on our vision and mission through three strategic priorities. LEAD THE CLEAN ENERGY TRANSITION ENHANCE THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE KEEP BILLS LOW Our employees are guided by four corporate values: Connected, Committed, Safe, and Trustworthy. Our values, culture and Code of Conduct serve as the foundation upon which Xcel Energy s employees, Board of Directors, contractors and suppliers approach their work in delivering on our three strategic priorities. 5 Table of Contents Deliver a Competitive Total Return to Investors Successful strategy execution, along with our disciplined approach to growth, operations and management of environmental, social and governance issues, positions us to continue delivering a competitive TSR. We have consistently achieved our financial objectives, meeting or exceeding our initial ongoing earnings guidance range for 19 consecutive years and delivering dividend growth for 21 consecutive years. Over the past five years, ongoing earnings per share have grown annually by 6.3% and our dividend per share by 6.5% annually. Xcel Energy works to maintain senior secured debt credit ratings in the A range and senior unsecured debt credit ratings in the BBB+ to A range. LEAD THE CLEAN ENERGY TRANSITION Xcel Energy manages the risk of climate change and has worked to meet the increasing demand for cleaner energy for over 20 years. Our sustainability commitments are summarized as follows: *Companywide goal; work also underway to meet state clean energy goals in our service area. **Spans natural gas supply, delivery and customer use. ***Includes Xcel Energy fleet; zero-carbon fuel is carbon free electricity or other clean energy. Carbon-free Electricity by 2050 Xcel Energy was the first U.S. utility to establish a carbon-free vision, targeting 100% carbon-free electricity by 2050 with an interim goal to reduce carbon emissions 80% by 2030 (from 2005 levels), including owned and purchased power. A lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) confirmed that our vision aligns with science-based scenarios likely to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius from pre-industrial levels, in alignment with the Paris Climate Accords. The pace of achieving a carbon-free vision is also governed by reliability and customer affordability. Our approved resource plans outline a clear, transparent path for reducing carbon emissions by 80% using current technologies, while maintaining customer bill increases at or below the rate of inflation. Moving from 80% carbon reduction to 100% carbon-free electricity will require new, dispatchable technologies that are economically viable, as well as supportive public policy. See Item 1A for risks and uncertainties related to strategic and sustainability goals and objectives. Xcel Energy s operating footprint includes some of the best wind and solar resources in the country, providing for higher capacity factors and lower operating costs. Our Steel for Fuel strategy reduces costs for our customers by taking advantage of these higher capacity factors along with savings provided by renewable tax credits and avoided fuel costs that mitigate higher cost fossil generation. Through 2023, we reduced carbon emissions from generation serving customers by an estimated 54% (from 2005 levels) and remain on track to achieve 80% carbon reduction and fully exit coal by the end of 2030. At the same time, our Steel for Fuel strategy has saved customers nearly $4 billion since 2017. Xcel Energy s wind capacity is now over 11,000 MW, including nearly 4,500 MW of owned wind. In Colorado, we anticipate adding an additional 1,850 MW of wind, 1,700 MW of solar, 1,850 MW of storage and 650 MW of gas generation to ensure reliability on our system by 2028. In Minnesota, we have approvals for more than 700 MW of new solar at our Sherco facility, making it one of the largest solar facilities in the country. In 2024, we filed our NSP Resource Plan, which proposes adding 3,600 MW of new wind and solar, 600 MW of battery storage and 2,200 MW of dispatchable resources by 2030, pending Commission approval. In SPS, we filed for approval of 400 MW of solar generation, a 200 MW PPA and a broader system IRP, which could include between 5,000 to 10,000 MW of new generation by 2030. Beyond carbon, we have significantly reduced other emissions and environmental impacts, including: *Reductions in water consumption are from owned and purchased electricity that serves our customers. All other reductions are from owned generating plants. **Coal ash and water consumption data are as of 2022. 6 Table of Contents As we prepare for early coal plant retirements, employees are provided advanced notice and offered retraining and relocation opportunities. To date, we have been successful in avoiding layoffs associated with our early coal plant retirements. We also help foster economic development opportunities to offset community impacts associated with coal plant closures. Xcel Energy has a long track record of working with our communities on energy, climate and environmental initiatives that impact them and has publicly committed to furthering environmental justice. Significant investment in our transmission and distribution systems is essential to ensure resiliency and reliability for customers through the clean energy transition. We have nearly $12 billion in our 2024 - 2028 capital plan focused specifically on this, including our $1.7 billion Pathway project in Colorado, and additional investments to further support our recently approved Colorado resource portfolio. As part of MISO s planned transmission expansion over the next decade, Xcel Energy has been awarded $1.2 billion of projects as part of Tranche 1. We anticipate MISO Tranche 2 awards in 2024. Natural Gas Use in Buildings Net-Zero GHG by 2050 Xcel Energy is committed to reducing GHG emissions 25% by 2030 (from 2020 levels) and provide net-zero natural gas service by 2050 from the supply, distribution and end-use of natural gas. In 2023, we filed our Clean Heat Plan in Colorado and Natural Gas Innovation Plan in Minnesota, which provide a framework for this transition. Similar to our electric plan, the lead author for the IPCC confirmed our vision to deliver natural gas service with net-zero emissions by 2050 aligns with science-based scenarios likely to limit global warming by 1.5 C. Our net-zero natural gas frameworks include the following priorities: Work with suppliers to purchase only low emissions gas by 2030. Operate the cleanest possible system to achieve net-zero methane emissions on the system by 2030. Offer customer options for conservation, beneficial electrification, and clean fuels such as hydrogen and renewable natural gas. Apply high-quality carbon offsets through projects that remove emissions while providing additional environmental and social benefit. Electrification of the Transportation Sector We are also helping reduce carbon emissions in other sectors, including transportation. We aim to enable one out of five vehicles in our service areas to be electric by 2030, representing nearly $2 billion of investment, 0.6% - 0.7% of average incremental annual retail sales growth and avoidance of roughly 5 million tons of CO 2 emissions annually. By 2050, our vision is to run all vehicles in our service area with carbon-free electricity or other clean energy. We have approved, transportation electrification programs and plans in Colorado, New Mexico, Minnesota and Wisconsin and updated transportation plans pending commission approval in Minnesota and Colorado. Innovation and Policy In 2023, the Department of Energy announced awards of nearly $1.5 billion to support multiple Xcel Energy affiliated projects. The Heartland Hydrogen Hub, which includes multiple projects from Xcel Energy and others in the Upper Midwest, received an award of up to $925 million by the DOE. This funding will serve as a catalyst for a clean hydrogen ecosystem in the region. The DOE also awarded Xcel Energy up to $70 million to support our two 10-MW, 100-hour battery pilots with Form Energy. Combined with grants committed by Breakthrough Energy Catalyst, we have secured up to $90 million to support these long duration energy storage pilots, a critical asset class to ensure cost effective reliability in a high-renewable grid. Xcel Energy was selected as part of two different awards from the DOE s Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnership program. The DOE awarded Xcel Energy $100 million to support projects to mitigate the threat of wildfires and ensure resiliency of the grid through extreme weather. Xcel Energy was also party to GRIP s $464 million grant to expand transmission as part of the MISO and SPP program to fund high-voltage transmission to improve inter-regional transfer capability, reliability and resolve grid constraints. Xcel Energy actively engages in wildfire mitigation activities across our operating territories. For the past three years, we have operated under a commission-approved wildfire plan in Colorado. We are currently evaluating updates to these plans with a wide range of options for consideration including new technologies, undergrounding, additional vegetation management, composite poles, selective use of covered conductor and preventative power system shutoffs. Sustainability Governance and Oversight In 2000, we instituted oversight of environmental performance by the Board of Directors and were among the first U.S. energy providers to tie carbon reduction to executive compensation more than 15 years ago. Xcel Energy has provided a voluntary, third-party verified annual GHG disclosure since 2005, longer than any other U.S. utility. We are a founding member of The Climate Registry and a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. Our disclosures also align with the Global Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals frameworks. ENHANCE THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Xcel Energy has invested more than $2 billion over the past decade in a portfolio of renewable and conservation programs that provide customers with clean energy options and help keep bills low. New demand remains robust in our territories, including load growth from new data centers, industrial electrification and electric vehicle adoption. As such, we are transforming and expanding our electric grid to accommodate load growth, renewable energy and distributed energy resources. We are in the process of installing smart electric meters, which will deliver customer and operational benefits, providing near-real-time communication, allowing customers to know how much energy they are using and what it will cost. In addition, customers will have new digital tools to make it easier to access their energy information, gain useful insights to understand and manage their energy use and make energy choices that lower their bills. KEEP BILLS LOW Customer affordability is critical to successful strategy execution. From 2014 - 2023, we have kept residential electric bill growth to 1.8% per year and natural gas bill growth to 1.1% per year, both below the rate of inflation. Based on available EIA data, the five year average residential electric and natural gas bills for an Xcel Energy customer were 28% and 14% below the national average, respectively. Going forward, our goal is to enable the clean energy transition while keeping customer bill growth below the rate of inflation through initiatives including conservation programs, O M cost control, our One Xcel Energy Way lean management initiative, advanced operational technologies and our Steel for Fuel program. 7 Table of Contents * Based on 2019 - Q3 2023 EIA Data STRENGTHEN OUR COMMUNITIES We provide a fundamental service, powering communities with safe, reliable, competitively priced and increasingly clean energy. Investing in our communities is important to our collective success. We initiated 18 economic development projects for our local communities in 2023, which are projected to create more than $2.3 billion in capital investments and 1,400 jobs. Nearly 63% of our supply chain spend was local, with approximately $638 million spent with diverse suppliers. Approximately 300 employees served on more than 530 nonprofit organizations or local community boards, providing over 28,000 volunteer hours in 2023. Our annual Day of Service attracted 2,500 people who volunteered over 7,200 combined hours at over 120 nonprofit projects across the company s service footprint. In 2023, the Xcel Energy Foundation contributed $4 million to 409 nonprofit organizations that support its three charitable giving focus areas of STEM Career Pathways, Environmental Sustainability, and Community Vitality. Through our 2023 Power Your Purpose Giving Campaign, Xcel Energy employees, contractors and retirees donated more than $2 million to over 1,300 nonprofit and community organizations exceeding our fundraising goal. Combined with the Xcel Energy Foundation match to local United Way chapters, this campaign raised over $4 million for our communities. VALUE PEOPLE AND OPERATE WITH INTEGRITY Champion Safety Continuously elevating the quality and safety of the workplace is a top priority. We are considered a benchmark company for our Safety Always approach, focused on eliminating life-altering injuries through a trusted, transparent culture and the use of critical controls. All employees have stop work authority and are expected to keep each other, our customers and the public safe. Employees are encouraged to speak up, share experiences and learn from events to help protect themselves, their coworkers and the public. The Board of Directors has oversight for employee and public safety through the Operations, Nuclear, Environmental and Safety committee, both of which are also tied to annual incentive compensation. Cultivate a Diverse, Best-in-Class Workforce We aim to create an inclusive culture where employees are treated equitably, and diversity is not only accepted but celebrated. This starts with our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors oversees our workforce strategy, including diversity and inclusion initiatives. Xcel Energy has an incentive-based metric focused on diverse interview panels, executive sponsorship and employee feedback on inclusion in the workplace. A total of 70% of annual incentive compensation was tied to safety, system reliability and inclusion metrics. Management evaluates compensation and benefits to maintain a market-competitive, performance-based, shareholder-aligned total rewards package that supports our ability to attract, engage and retain a talented and diverse workforce, while reinforcing and rewarding strong performance. We partner with educational and community organizations to attract and hire employees who reflect the communities we serve and live our values. Xcel Energy had 11,311 full-time employees and workforce demographics as of December 2023 were as follows: Female Ethnically Diverse Board of Directors 31 % 15 % CEO direct reports 30 10 Management 26 13 Employees 23 19 New hires 35 29 Interns (hired throughout 2023) 33 14 We offer leaders and employees training on microinequities and unconscious bias to help foster a culture of inclusivity. Xcel Energy hosts 12 business resource groups to support employee interests and obtain diverse perspectives when solving challenges and achieving goals. Xcel Energy also respects employees freedom of association and their right to collectively organize. As of Dec. 31, 2023, approximately 46% of our employees (5,155) were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employee turnover for 2023 and future projected retirement eligibility: Employee Turnover Retirement Eligibility Bargaining 6 % Within next 5 years 19 % Non-Bargaining (a) 22 Within next 10 years 31 Overall (b) 15 (a) 37% of turnover was due to workforce reduction initiatives. (b) 38% of turnover was due to retirements, including the impacts of the workforce reduction initiatives. We are committed to the advancement and protection of human rights, consistent with U.S. human rights laws and the general principles in the International Labour Organizatio