Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 2 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 6 Item 2. Properties 7 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 Information about our Executive Officers 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 32 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 32 Item 9B. Other Information 32 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 32 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 33 Item 11. Executive Compensation 33 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 33 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 34 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 34 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 34 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 34 Financial Section 35 Index to Exhibits 125 Signatures 126 Exhibits 31 and 32 Certifications PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or market products in the United States and most other countries of the world. Our principal business involves exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural gas; manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products, petrochemicals and a wide variety of specialty products; and pursuit of lower-emission business opportunities including carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and biofuels. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research programs in support of these businesses. Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many with names that include ExxonMobil , Exxon , Esso, Mobil or XTO . For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil and XTO , as well as terms like Corporation , Company , our , we, and its , are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question. The energy and petrochemical industries are highly competitive, both within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel, and chemical needs of industrial and individual consumers. Certain industry participants, including ExxonMobil, are expanding investments in lower-emission energy and emission-reduction services and technologies. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes. Operating data and industry segment information for the Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the following: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Business Results and Note 18: Disclosures about Segments and Related Information . Information on oil and gas reserves is contained in the Oil and Gas Reserves part of the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities portion of the Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to the development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our business segments. ExxonMobil held over 8 thousand active patents worldwide at the end of 2021. For technology licensed to third parties, revenues totaled approximately $66 million in 2021. Although technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise, or concession. ExxonMobil operates in a highly complex, competitive, and changing global energy business environment where decisions and risks play out over time horizons that are often decades in length. This long-term orientation underpins the Corporation's philosophy on talent development. Talent development begins with recruiting exceptional candidates and continues with individually planned experiences and training designed to facilitate broad development and a deep understanding of our business across the business cycle. Our career-oriented approach to talent development results in strong retention and an average length of service of 30 years for our career employees. Compensation, benefits, and workplace programs support the Corporation's talent management approach, and are designed to attract and retain employees for a career through compensation that is market competitive, long-term oriented, and highly differentiated by individual performance. Over 60 percent of our global employee workforce is from outside the U.S., and over the past decade 39 percent of our global hires for management, professional and technical positions were female and 35 percent of our U.S. hires for management, professional and technical positions were minorities. With over 160 nationalities represented in the company, we encourage and respect diversity of thought, ideas, and perspective from our workforce. We consider and monitor diversity through all stages of employment, including recruitment, training, and development of our employees. We also work closely with the communities where we operate to identify and invest in initiatives that help support local needs, including local talent and skill development. The number of regular employees was 63 thousand, 72 thousand, and 75 thousand at years ended 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical, and wage employees who work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs. 1 As discussed in