Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 2 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 5 Item 2. Properties 6 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Information about our Executive Officers 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 32 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 32 Item 9B. Other Information 32 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 33 Item 11. Executive Compensation 33 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 33 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 34 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 34 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 34 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 34 Financial Section 35 Index to Exhibits 126 Signatures 127 Exhibits 31 and 32 Certifications PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or market products in the United States and most other countries of the world. Their principal business involves exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural gas and manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products, petrochemicals and a wide variety of specialty products. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research programs in support of these businesses. Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many with names that include ExxonMobil , Exxon , Esso, Mobil or XTO . For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil and XTO , as well as terms like Corporation , Company , our , we and its , are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question. The energy and petrochemical industries are highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both industrial and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes. Operating data and industry segment information for the Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the following: Quarterly Information , Note 18: Disclosures about Segments and Related Information and Operating Information . Information on oil and gas reserves is contained in the Oil and Gas Reserves part of the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities portion of the Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to the development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our business segments. ExxonMobil held over 13 thousand active patents worldwide at the end of 2019. For technology licensed to third parties, revenues totaled approximately $79 million in 2019. Although technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession. The number of regular employees was 74.9 thousand, 71.0 thousand, and 69.6 thousand at years ended 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs. Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground. These include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels, as well as projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas emissions, and expenditures for asset retirement obligations. Using definitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2019 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were $5.2 billion, of which $4.0 billion were included in expenses with the remainder in capital expenditures. The total cost for such activities is expected to increase to approximately $5.9 billion in 2020 and 2021. Capital expenditures are expected to account for approximately 35 percent of the total. Information concerning the source and availability of raw materials used in the Corporation s business, the extent of seasonality in the business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to foreign operations may be found in