Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 59 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 59 Item 2. Properties 60 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 60 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 61 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 62 Item 6. [RESERVED] 64 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 65 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 85 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 87 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 150 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 150 Item 9B. Other Information 151 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 151 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 152 Item 11. Executive Compensation 152 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 152 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 152 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 152 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 153 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 156 Signatures 157 CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, appears, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue, or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial and operating performance, our expectations regarding transaction and loan losses, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses on loans held for investment, or increased delinquencies, and the impact of inaccurate estimates or inadequate reserves, our anticipated growth and growth strategies and our ability to effectively manage that growth, our ability to invest in and develop our products and services to operate with changing technology, the expected benefits of our products to our customers and the impact of our products on our business, our expectations regarding product launches, the expected impact of the integration of Afterpay Limited ("Afterpay"), trends in our markets and the continuation of such trends, our expectations related to our plans to cap our employee base, our plans with respect to patents and other intellectual property, our expectations regarding litigation and regulatory matters and the adequacy of reserves for such matters, our expectations regarding share-based compensation, our expectations regarding the impacts of accounting guidance and the timing of our compliance therewith, our expectations regarding restricted cash, and the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategy, and financial needs. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on information and estimates available to us at the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are not guarantees of future performance. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Business At Block, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Block" or "we"), we are building an ecosystem of ecosystems, each focused on distinct customer audiences. We define an ecosystem as a set of tools and services that work together cohesively, often positively reinforcing one another. This helps create resilient relationships with customers as they use our tools and services to satisfy multiple needs. Our ecosystems are united by our shared purpose of economic empowerment, with each ecosystem serving different people sellers, consumers, artists, fans, and developers. As we scale, we are focused on investing in developing connections between our ecosystems and by creating more connections to increase the resilience of our overall company. On December 1, 2021, we changed our corporate name from Square, Inc. to Block, Inc. Block is the name for the company as a corporate entity. Since our start in 2009 with the Square business, we have added Cash App, TIDAL, and TBD as businesses. Our two reportable segments are Square, formerly referred to as Seller, and Cash App, which reflects our two primary ecosystems and the manner in which the Company's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") reviews and assesses performance. We have historically allocated the financial results from our buy now, pay later ("BNPL") platform equally to the Cash App and Square segments. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we changed our management reporting structure and moved the business activities and management of our BNPL platform fully under Cash App. We believe that this transition will allow us to better focus on consumer based commerce as well as the development of its financial tools within Cash App. Square Ecosystem We started Block with the Square ecosystem in February 2009 to enable businesses ("sellers") to accept card payments, an important capability that was previously inaccessible to many businesses. As our company grew, we recognized that sellers need a variety of solutions to thrive and saw how we could apply our strength in technology and innovation to help sellers. We have since expanded Square into a cohesive commerce ecosystem that provides more than 30 distinct products and services to help our sellers start, run, and grow their businesses. We combine software, hardware, and financial services to create products and services that are cohesive, fast, self-serve, and elegant. These attributes differentiate Square in a fragmented industry that traditionally forces sellers to stitch together products and services from multiple vendors, and often rely on inefficient non-digital processes and tools. Our ability to add new sellers efficiently, help them grow their business, and cross-sell our products and services has historically led to continued and sustained long-term growth. Cash App Ecosystem Cash App provides an ecosystem of financial products and services to help consumers manage their money. Cash App s goal is to redefine the world s relationship with money by making it more relatable, instantly available, and universally accessible. While Cash App started with the single ability to send and receive money, it now provides an ecosystem of financial services focused on helping consumers make their money go further by enabling customers to store, send, receive, spend, invest, borrow or save their money with Cash App. Emerging Ecosystems We are also making modest investments in two relatively nascent and emerging ecosystems related to TIDAL and bitcoin, in order to serve new audiences. TIDAL Ecosystem In 2021, we completed the acquisition of a majority ownership interest in TIDAL, expanding our purpose of economic empowerment to artists. TIDAL is a global platform for musicians and their fans that uses unique content, experiences, and features to bring fans closer to artists and to provide artists with tools to succeed as entrepreneurs. TIDAL offers an extensive catalog of more than 132 million songs and 774,000 high-quality videos. TIDAL has a global presence with listeners in more than 60 countries and relationships with more than 200 labels and distributors. 4 Bitcoin Ecosystem Our bitcoin ecosystem includes TBD, which is an open developer platform focused on making the decentralized financial world accessible for everyone, our bitcoin hardware projects, which include Bitkey, a self-custody bitcoin wallet, a bitcoin mining system, Spiral, an independent team focused on contributing to bitcoin open source work. We believe our bitcoin ecosystem can help address inefficiencies in the current financial system, especially with respect to identity and trust. Our Customers Our Square Sellers Square sellers represent a diverse range of industries (including services, food-related, and retail businesses) and sizes, ranging from sole proprietors to multinational businesses. Square sellers span geographies, including the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, and Spain. We believe the diversity of our sellers underscores the accessibility and flexibility of our offerings. We are also increasingly serving mid-market sellers, which we define as sellers that generate more than $500,000 in annualized Square Gross Payment Volume ( Square GPV ), due to our ability to offer more flexible and complex solutions than traditional alternatives, as well as a growing product suite. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, none of our customers accounted for greater than 5% of Square GPV. We define Square GPV as the total dollar amount of all card payments processed by sellers using Square, net of refunds, and ACH transfers. In the year ended December 31, 2023, more than 4 million sellers used the Square ecosystem to make 4.0 billion individual sales transactions totaling $209.6 billion of Square GPV. These sales transactions originated from 733 million payment cards, across 271 million buyer profiles. The charts below show the percentage mix of our Square GPV by seller industry and seller size for the year ended December 31, 2023: 5 Our Cash App Customers As of December 2023, Cash App had 56 million monthly transacting actives across the United States and the U.K. In 2023, across the iOS App Store and Google Play, Cash App was the number one finance app and the number ten app overall in the United States, based on downloads. Cash App has a diverse mix of customers, and in the United States, Cash App had monthly transacting actives in each of the 50 states and nearly every county as of December 2023. In 2023, Cash App transacting actives brought more than $248 billion in inflows into Cash App. Customers can fund their Cash App accounts with inflows in a variety of ways, including by receiving money from another Cash App customer through the app s core peer-to-peer transfer service, transferring money from a bank account, depositing mobile checks, adding physical cash at participating retailers, and receiving a recurring paycheck by direct deposit. In 2023, each Cash App monthly transacting active brought in an average of $384 of inflows in a given month during the year. A transacting active is a Cash App account that has at least one financial transaction using any product or service within Cash App during the specified period. Examples of transactions include sending or receiving a peer-to-peer payment, transferring money into or out of Cash App, making a purchase using Cash App Card, earning a dividend on a stock investment, and paying back a loan, among others. Certain of these accounts may share an alias identifier with one or more other transacting active accounts. This could represent, among other things, one customer with multiple accounts or multiple customers sharing one alias identifier (for example, families). 6 7 Our Products and Services Square Ecosystem Our Square ecosystem consists of more than 30 distinct software, hardware, and financial services products that provide cohesive Commerce, Customer Relationship Management, Staff Management, and Banking capabilities. Our products are designed to be self-serve and intuitive to make initial setup and new employee training fast and easy, although we also offer full-service setup and support. They are also flexible enough to serve the needs of both small, single location and large, complex multi-location sellers. Our products are integrated to create a seamless experience and enable a holistic view of sales, customers, employees, and finances. We believe the breadth and depth of our products and services provide us unique advantages in best serving the needs of our sellers through a holistic view of their businesses. We supplement these first party capabilities with our open developer platform that enables integrations with third-party applications. We monetize these products through a combination of transaction, subscription, and service fees. Strategic Priorities: Our focus for Square is on four priorities: maintaining our secure, and flexible multi-product platform, providing a local experience to sellers of all sizes, growing with artificial intelligence ( AI ), and further developing our banking offering. Platform: It is critical that we have a strong foundation to build upon to serve external customers through our developer platform and partner ecosystem, and our internal team's first party products. This includes increasing reliability of our platform and also introducing products and features that are most important to our customers. Local: Our go-to-market strategy is focused on verticals with a local approach, specifically restaurants and services-based businesses. Growing upmarket has shown us that even larger sellers want to feel authentic to their buyers. We can enable this type of robust offering through our technology and by improving the onboarding process through sales and account management. Artificial Intelligence (AI): We are focused on enabling growth by leveraging AI to increase productivity and outcomes for our sales and marketing, customer service, and engineering efforts, in addition to building features that help sellers grow their businesses. Banking: Our robust banking offering primarily helps our sellers manage cash flow and grow their business through our lending capabilities. We will continue to drive trust with our sellers, and build products and features that help with sellers accessing funds securely and timely. 8 Commerce Square's commerce products help sellers make sales and track orders, inventory, and fulfillment across in-person and online channels, as well as first-party and third-party channels. Most of our Square software products have a free tier (without a subscription fee), which we monetize only through transaction fees on card payments. Most software products also have premium tiers with additional functionality, which we monetize through subscription fees in addition to transaction fees on payments. Square for Restaurants is a vertical solution tailored for both quick-service and full-service restaurants. It includes table, order, and course management; a kitchen display system; and revenue and cost reporting. Square Appointments is a vertical solution tailored for appointment-based businesses that need a point-of-sale application with integrated booking capabilities. Square Appointments includes a free online booking site so buyers can easily schedule appointments and select their preferred time, service, and staff member. It is also integrated with Square Assistant, an AI-enabled automated messaging tool that responds to buyers efficiently and professionally, saving sellers' time and helping prevent missed appointments. Square for Retail is a vertical solution tailored for sellers in the retail industry. It includes advanced inventory management, cost of goods sold reporting, purchase orders, vendor management, and barcode scanning. Square Point of Sale is a general purpose point-of-sale application for businesses that need an easy-to-use, customizable point-of-sale solution that adapts across business types and stages. Square Online makes it easy to build a website and online store as well as sell on Instagram and Facebook. The online store is mobile responsive, delivering an app-like ordering experience on a buyer s phone. With integrated support for QR code ordering, sellers can also streamline their in-store operations by posting the QR code and having their buyers order from their own phones. Fulfillment options include pickup, delivery managed by our sellers, and integrations with partner delivery platforms. Orders, items, inventory, and customer data stay in sync when selling both online and in-person. Square Online Checkout makes it easy to sell online without a website by allowing sellers to create a checkout link with only a name and price for their good or service. 9 Square Invoices is a customizable digital invoicing solution with integrated and secure online payment acceptance. This eliminates the need to print and mail statements to customers and wait for checks to arrive. Sellers use Square Invoices for upcoming, recurring, or previously delivered goods and services, such as catering orders, contractor services, lessons, and retail orders. Square Invoices also lets sellers send estimates and collect partial payments for goods and services. Square Virtual Terminal allows sellers to use a computer as a card terminal. Sellers can take a payment, set up recurring billing, record sales, and send digital receipts for payments, including those made by check and bank transfer. Risk Manager gives sellers insight into online payment fraud patterns and enables them to set custom rules and alerts to manage risk. Machine-learning algorithms automatically identify fraud patterns and adapt to fit a seller's operations. Order Manager allows sellers to manage online orders that originate from Square Online, their own website on another platform, and third-party websites including online marketplaces such as DoorDash. Order Manager enables tracking open orders, managing prep times and busy times, and marking orders as completed. Payment APIs (application programming interfaces) and SDKs (software development kits) support in-person, online, and mobile payments. Square Reader SDK enables developers to seamlessly integrate Square hardware with a seller s custom point of sale, allowing them to build unique checkout experiences such as self-ordering kiosks powered by Square s managed payments service. With Square's online payments APIs, developers can integrate Square payments into a seller s e-commerce website or online store. Square's In-App Payments SDK enables developers to build consumer mobile apps that use Square to process payments. These products are monetized primarily through transaction fees on payment volumes. Commerce APIs: Square offers more than 30 commerce APIs, through which developers can create and manage orders, subscriptions, product catalogs, inventory, customer profiles, employees, loyalty programs, gift cards, and more to build applications that enrich and integrate with Square's ecosystem of products. In addition, these APIs enable developers to build integrations with their existing business systems such as accounting, customer relationship management ( CRM ), employee management, and enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) software. For card payments, Square acts as the merchant of record for the transaction as well as the payment service provider ( PSP ). As the merchant of record, Square is the party responsible for settling funds with the seller and helps manage transaction risk loss on behalf of the seller. Square s managed payments offering for sellers includes payment dispute management, data security, and PCI compliance for a transparent transaction fee paid by sellers. Square has negotiated terms and entered into contractual arrangements directly with other service providers of transaction processing services, including the acquiring processors and card networks, and indirectly with issuing banks. These contracts include negotiated terms, such as more favorable pricing, that are generally not available to sellers if they were to contract directly with these sub-service providers. Square's position as the merchant of record helps us better serve our sellers. For example, as the merchant of record, we can more efficiently onboard new sellers through our website, leveraging our risk assessment models, and we have insights into transaction-level data that we use to inform our sellers and launch new products. Hardware Square custom-designs hardware that can process all major card payment forms, including magnetic stripe, EMV chip, and NFC (contactless). Sellers are able to accept cards issued by Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, JCB, Interac Flash (in Canada), e-Money (in Japan), and eftpos (in Australia). Square hardware can be integrated with additional accessories such as cash drawers, receipt printers, scales, and barcode scanners to provide sellers with a comprehensive point-of-sale solution. Square's hardware portfolio includes the following: Square Register is an all-in-one offering that combines our hardware, point-of-sale software, and payments technology. The dedicated hardware consists of two screens: a seller display and a customer display with a built-in card reader that accepts tap, dip, and swipe payments. 10 Square Terminal is a portable, all-in-one payments device and receipt printer to replace traditional keypad terminals. It accepts tap, dip, and swipe payments and has a battery that lasts all day, enabling payments anywhere in the store. Square Stand enables an iPad to be used as a payment terminal or full point-of-sale solution. It features an integrated contactless and chip reader. Square Reader for contactless and chip accepts EMV chip cards and NFC payments, enabling acceptance via Apple Pay, Google Pay, and other mobile wallets. Square Reader for magstripe enables swiped transactions of magnetic-stripe cards by connecting with an iOS or Android smartphone or tablet via the headphone jack or Lightning connector. Customers Square s Customer capabilities help sellers grow their business. By linking customer data together with online and in-person commerce data, Square can offer sellers integrated omnichannel capabilities to acquire, engage, and retain customers. Square transaction data and reporting allows sellers to easily assess performance and return on investment. We typically monetize these products via service and software fees. BNPL helps drive net new demand to sellers via discovery in the Afterpay app and has historically increased average conversion rates and average transaction sizes for new and existing customers across online and in-store channels. Square Loyalty helps sellers keep their buyers coming back. Buyers that enroll in a Square Loyalty program are twice as likely to be repeat customers and spend 50% more, on average. Square Marketing helps sellers drive traffic by sending emails or texts to promote in-store events, new products, last-minute deals, or seasonal offers. Sellers can set up recurring automated campaigns to welcome new customers, wish them a happy birthday, send abandoned-cart reminders, or reach out to lapsed customers. Square Gift Cards help sellers bring in new buyers when their customers purchase gift cards for their friends and family. Staff Square's staff management products give sellers digital tools to streamline their operations. These tools seamlessly integrate with other Square products eliminating the latent, time-consuming, and error-prone processes typically used to copy and sync data between disparate systems. We typically monetize these products via software fees. Square Team Management makes it easy to schedule staff and view team performance and sales analytics in real time. It also enables limiting access to Square software features per employee or role. The Square Team App enables team members to clock in and out, view and adjust their schedules, and see timecards, hours worked, and estimated pay from their mobile phone. Square Payroll allows sellers to pay wages and associated employee taxes, and offer employee benefits (e.g. 401(k) accounts). The Square ecosystem drives competitive differentiation for our Payroll product with the ability to use Payroll in conjunction with our point-of-sale products, Team Management, and Cash App. Banking We offer a growing number of banking services that make it easier for sellers to manage cash flow and get faster access to funds. 11 Square Lending provides a platform of lending products to qualified Square sellers . Square Loans (formerly Square Capital) facilitates loans to qualified Square sellers through our subsidiary Square Financial Services, Inc. ( SFS Financial Services ), which is an industrial loan company ( ILC"). Square Loans eliminates the lengthy (and often unsuccessful) loan application process. We are able to approve sellers for these loans by using our unique data set of the seller s Square transactions to help facilitate loan underwriting and collections, which mitigates risks. Generally, loan repayment occurs automatically through a fixed percentage of every card transaction a seller takes. Loans are sized to be less than 20% of a seller's expected annual Square GPV and, by simply running their business, sellers historically have repaid their loans within nine months on average. We currently fund a majority of these loans from arrangements with institutional third-party investors who purchase these loans on a forward-flow basis, which mitigates our balance sheet and liquidity risk. Since its public launch in May 2014, Square Loans has facilitated more than 2.2 million loans and advances, representing more than $16.2 billion in principal amount loaned or advanced. This includes approximately 150,000 loans to small businesses representing more than $1.5 billion of Paycheck Protection Program ( PPP ) loans facilitated in 2020 and 2021, excluding canceled loans. We launched Square Credit Card in 2023 to provide another lending option. Instant Transfer enables sellers to receive funds from their payments instantly or later that same day. Instant Transfer is an important tool for sellers that need faster access to their funds in order to better manage their cash flow or working capital. Square Checking provides sellers with an FDIC-insured account that gives them instant access to their sales and the ability to immediately use those funds via a debit card (Square Debit Card), withdraw funds from an ATM, or transfer funds via ACH. Square Savings is a high-yield business savings account, with no monthly fees or minimums, designed to make cash flow management easier for sellers. With Square Savings, sellers can easily and automatically put aside a portion of their sales in their savings account while also organizing their money within folders, streamlining the process of saving funds for specific goals and priorities, such as quarterly tax obligations. Cash App Ecosystem With Cash App, we are building an ecosystem of financial products and services that helps consumers manage their money by making it more relatable, instantly available, and universally accessible. Cash App is primarily in the United States and has a diverse set of customers across demographics and regions. We use our inflows framework to assess the performance of Cash App across actives, inflows per active, and the monetization rate on inflows. Strategic Priorities Cash App sits at the intersection of three traditionally-distinct use cases: financial services, community based transactions (peer-to-peer payments) and commerce. Our approach for Cash App is to combine these three areas together in a unique manner to define a new product category and reinvent banking for our customers. Our primary focus with Cash App, in alliance with our bank partners, is on earning the primary banking relationship of our existing customer base in the U.S. 12 Customers can use Cash App to inflow funds in a variety of ways, including by receiving money from another Cash App customer through the app s core peer-to-peer transfer service, transferring money from a bank account, depositing mobile checks, adding physical cash at participating retailers, receiving a recurring paycheck by direct deposit, and through other inflow channels. These funds can then be sent to another customer through the app, spent anywhere that accepts Visa cards or Cash App Pay, withdrawn from an ATM using the Cash App Card, invested in stocks or exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ), used to buy bitcoin, or transferred to a bank account (either instantly for a fee or for free in one to three days). Financial Services We serve our customers through a broad suite of financial services, and ea