Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 50 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 50 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 51 Item 6. [RESERVED] 54 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 74 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 77 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 140 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 140 Item 9B. Other Information 141 Item 9C. D isclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 141 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 142 Item 11. Executive Compensation 142 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 142 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 142 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 142 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 143 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 146 Signatures 147 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, appears, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue, or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures on our business, customers, and employees, our expectations regarding transaction and loan losses, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses on loans held for investment, or increased delinquencies, and the impact of inaccurate estimates or inadequate reserves, our potential exposure as a participant in the Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP"), our anticipated growth and growth strategies and our ability to effectively manage that growth, our ability to invest in and develop our products and services to operate with changing technology, the expected benefits of our products to our customers and the impact of our products on our business, and our expectations regarding Gross Payment Volume (GPV) and revenue, including our expectations regarding the Cash App and Square ecosystems, our expectations regarding product launches, the expected impact of our recent acquisitions, the integration of Afterpay with our business, our plans with respect to patents and other intellectual property, our expectations regarding litigation and regulatory matters and the adequacy of reserves for such matters, our expectations regarding share-based compensation, our expectations regarding the impacts of accounting guidance and the timing of our compliance therewith, our expectations regarding restricted cash, and the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We have based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategy, and financial needs. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on information and estimates available to the Company at the time of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are not guarantees of future performance. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 3 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Our Business We started Block with the Square ecosystem in February 2009 to enable businesses ("sellers") to accept card payments, an important capability that was previously inaccessible to many businesses. As our company grew, we recognized that sellers need a variety of solutions to thrive and saw how we could apply our strength in technology and innovation to help sellers. We have since expanded our Square ecosystem to provide more than 30 distinct products and services to sellers that help them manage and grow their business. Similarly, with Cash App, we have built an ecosystem of financial services to help individuals manage their money. Our purpose of economic empowerment drives the development of all our products and services. Effective June 30, 2020, we changed the way we reported our results from one operating and reportable segment to two. Our two reportable segments are Square, formerly referred to as Seller, and Cash App, reflecting our two primary ecosystems and the way management and our chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) review and assess the performance of our business. On December 1, 2021, we changed our name from Square to Block. Block is the name for the company as a corporate entity. The Square name has become synonymous with our Seller business, and this move allowed the Seller business to own the Square brand it was built for. The change to Block acknowledges our growth. Since our start in 2009, we have added Cash App, TIDAL, and TBD as businesses, and the name change creates room for further growth. Block is an overarching ecosystem of many businesses united by their purpose of economic empowerment, and serves many people individuals, artists, fans, developers, and sellers. Square Ecosystem: Square offers a cohesive commerce ecosystem that helps our sellers start, run, and grow their businesses. We combine software, hardware, and financial services to create products and services that are cohesive, fast, self-serve, and elegant. These attributes differentiate Square in a fragmented industry that traditionally forces sellers to stitch together products and services from multiple vendors, and more often than not, rely on inefficient non-digital processes and tools. Our ability to add new sellers efficiently, help them grow their business, and cross-sell products and services has historically led to continued and sustained long-term growth. In the year ended December 31, 2021, we processed $152.8 billion of Square Gross Payment Volume ("GPV"), which was generated by more than 3 billion card payments from 526 million payment cards. At the end of 2021, our Square ecosystem had over 261 million buyer profiles and approximatel y 366 million items were listed on Square by sellers. Cash App Ecosystem: Cash App provides an ecosystem of financial products and services to help individuals manage their money. Cash App s goal is to redefine the world s relationship with money by making it more relatable, instantly available, and universally accessible. While Cash App started with the single ability to send and receive money, it now provides an ecosystem of financial services that allows individuals to store, send, receive, spend, and invest their money. TIDAL: In the second quarter of 2021, we completed the acquisition of a majority ownership interest in TIDAL, a global music and entertainment platform that expands our purpose of economic empowerment to artists. TIDAL offers an extensive catalog of more than 80 million songs and 350,000 high-quality videos. TIDAL focuses on putting both the artist experience and fan experience at the center of decisions, providing artists direct access to their audience and allowing fans deeper connections to their favorite artists through original, exclusive, and curated content and events. TIDAL has a global presence with listeners in more than 60 countries and relationships with more than 200 labels and distributors. TBD: In the third quarter of 2021, we launched TBD with a mission to build an open developer platform to make it easier for individuals and businesses to access bitcoin and other blockchain technologies without having to go through an institution. Spiral: In 2019, we launched Spiral, an independent team solely focused on contributing to bitcoin open source work. Afterpay: On January 31, 2022, we completed the acquisition of Afterpay Limited ("Afterpay"). Afterpay is a global buy now, pay later ("BNPL") platform that facilitates commerce between retail merchants and end-customers by allowing its retail merchant clients to offer their customers the ability to buy goods and services on a BNPL basis. Through the use of Afterpay s BNPL products, end-customers can split their purchases across four installments, generally due in two- 4 week increments, without paying fees (if payments are made on time). Afterpay provides end-customers the ability to get desired items now but pay for them later while simultaneously helping merchants increase sales and order values. Afterpay pays its retail merchant customers the full order value upfront (less a percentage fee) and assumes the risk of non-payment from the end-customer. Apart from capped late payment fees, end-customers do not incur additional fees. Afterpay operates an online shop directory, which allows consumers to search by product category for stores that offer Afterpay as a payment option, and offers an Afterpay in-store card for in-person transactions at a merchant s point of sale. We intend to integrate the Afterpay BNPL platform into the Cash App and Square ecosystems, strengthening the connection between these ecosystems, expanding access to more sellers and customers, and helping drive more commerce between our sellers and customers. Afterpay will be integrated into Square s online and in-person checkout solutions, strengthening Square s omnichannel platform. Customers will be able to manage their installments and repayments directly within Cash App, potentially driving increased engagement, while the commerce discovery from the Afterpay App will be integrated with Cash App to help drive lead generation for merchants and customer engagement. Response to COVID-19 In 2020 and 2021, we made certain focused investments in each of our Square and Cash App ecosystems to help our customers adapt to COVID-19. For our Square sellers, we provided resources with information and advice. We eliminated fees for our software products for the months of March and April 2020, as well as certain other months in 2020 and 2021 for markets outside the U.S., and introduced options for sellers to pause subscriptions temporarily based on their circumstances. We prioritized omnichannel product launches to help sellers transition to serving more of their customers online and through contactless commerce, including curbside pickup and delivery for Square Online and a website for customers to purchase eGift Cards from sellers. We also temporarily offered our sellers free marketing campaigns to update their buyers on recent changes and to promote their businesses. As a participant in the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), we distributed loans to Square sellers. As of December 31, 2021, we had facilitated approximately $1.5 billion of PPP loans, excluding canceled loans, providing more than 150,000 loans to small businesses. As of December 31, 2021, approxim ately $725.9 million in the aggregate of PPP loans had been forgiven by the Small Business Administration, of which, $679.6 million was forgiven in 2021. We approved and funded the last remaining PPP applications on May 21, 2021 upon exhaustion of the funds in the program. For our Cash App customers, we published educational materials to help them understand the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") stimulus programs. We expanded direct deposit access to many of our Cash App customers, allowing customers to direct deposit government funds into their Cash App accounts. Customers could spend their funds using Cash Card and we adapted certain Boost rewards to pandemic-relevant merchants and categories (e.g. grocery stores) to benefit our customers. Our Customers Our Square sellers: Square sellers represent a diverse range of industries (including services, food-related, and retail businesses) and sizes, ranging from sole proprietors to multi-national businesses. Square sellers span geographies, including the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, and Spain. We believe the diversity of our sellers underscores the accessibility and flexibility of our offerings. We are also increasingly serving mid-market sellers, which we define as sellers that generate more than $500,000 in annualized GPV. Our ability to service mid-market sellers is due to our ability to offer more flexible and complex solutions as well as a growing product suite. GPV from mid-market sellers represent ed 37% o f Square GPV in the fourth quarter of 2021, up from 30% in the fourth quarter of 2020 and 28% in the fourth quarter of 2019. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we had no customer who accounted for greater than 5% of our GPV or our total net revenue. The charts below show the percentage mix of our Square GPV by seller industry and seller size, excluding Cash App for the year ended December 31, 2021: 5 6 Our Cash App Customers: As of December 2021, Cash App had more than 44 million monthly transacting actives across the United States and Europe which had at least one financial transaction using any Cash App product or service. In 2021, across the iOS App Store and Google Play, Cash App was the number one finance app and the number four app overall, based on downloads in the United States. Cash App has a diverse mix of customers. In the United States, Cash App had monthly transacting actives in each of the 50 states and nearly every county as of December 2021. Our Products and Services Square Ecosystem: Our Square ecosystem consists of more than 30 distinct software, hardware, and financial services products. We monetize these products through a combination of transaction, subscription, and service fees. Software We offer a growing suite of cloud-based software solutions to help Square sellers more effectively operate and manage their businesses. Our software is designed to be self-serve and intuitive to make initial setup and new employee training fast and easy. Our products are integrated to create a seamless experience and enable a holistic view of sales, customers, employees, and locations. Sellers get frequent software updates and upgrades automatically. Square's software offerings include our Online, Point of Sale, Developer Platform, Customer Relationship Management, and Team Management products. Square's point of sale products help sellers make sales and track sales, inventory, customers purchase histories, and tips. All point of sale products have a free software tier without a subscription fee, which we monetize only through payments transaction fees. Among Square's point of sale products, Square Appointments, Square for Retail, and Square for Restaurants also have premium tiers with additional functionality, which we monetize through subscription fees in addition to transaction fees on payments. Square Point of Sale is a general purpose point-of-sale software solution for businesses that need an easy to use, customizable point of sale solution that adapts to any business type and stage. It is available for both iOS and Android and is pre-installed on Square Register and Square Terminal hardware devices. Square Appointments is for appointment-based businesses that need a point-of-sale software solution with integrated booking capabilities. It can be used on iOS, Android, or via a web browser. Appointments includes a free online booking site so buyers can easily schedule appointments and select their preferred time, service, and staff member. It is also integrated with Square Assistant, an artificial intelligence enabled automated messaging tool that responds to buyers efficiently and professionally, saving sellers' time and helping prevent no-shows. Square for Retail is tailored for sellers in the retail industry and includes advanced inventory management, cost of goods sold reporting, purchase orders, vendor management, and barcode scanning. Square for Restaurants is tailored for both quick service and full-service restaurants. It includes table, order and course management, a kitchen display system, and revenue and cost reporting. Square's online products make it easy to sell online and via social media. When used in conjunction with Square's point of sale products, sellers can offer omnichannel experiences for their customers such as buy online, pickup in store or curbside, and buy online, return in store. All online products have a free tier without a subscription fee, which we monetize only through transaction fees on payments. Square Online and Square Invoices also have premium tiers with additional functionality that is monetized via software fees in addition to transaction fees on payments. Square Online helps sellers across a range of verticals reach customers in more ways. It makes it easy to build a website and online store as well as sell on Instagram and Facebook. The online store is mobile responsive, delivering an app-like ordering experience on a buyer s phone. With integrated support for QR code ordering, sellers can also streamline their in-store operations by posting the QR code and having their buyers order from their own phones. Fulfillment options include pickup, delivery managed by our sellers, and partner delivery platforms. Orders, items, inventory, and customer data stay in sync when selling both online and in-person. 7 Square Online Checkout makes it easy to sell online without a website by allowing sellers to create a checkout link with only a name and price for their good or service. Square Invoices is a customizable digital invoicing solution with integrated and secure online payment acceptance. This eliminates the need to print and mail statements to customers and wait for checks to arrive. Sellers use Square Invoices for upcoming, recurring, or previously-delivered goods and services, such as catering orders, contractor services, lessons, and retail orders. Square Invoices also lets sellers send estimates and collect partial payments for goods and services. Square Virtual Terminal allows sellers to use a computer as a card terminal. Sellers can take a payment, set up recurring billing, record sales, and send digital receipts for payments, including those made by check and bank transfer. Square's business and customer relationship management products give sellers digital tools to streamline their operations. These tools seamlessly integrate with other Square products eliminating the latent, time-consuming, and error prone processes typically used to copy and sync data between disparate systems. We monetize these products via software fees with the exception of Square Contracts, Feedback, and Dashboard which we do not directly monetize. Square Team Management makes it easy to schedule staff, view team performance and sales analytics in real time, and pay employees in minutes when used together with Square Payroll. It also enables limiting access to Square software features per employee or role. The Square Team App enables team members to clock in and out, view and adjust their schedules, see timecards, hours worked, and estimated pay from their mobile phone. Team members paid via Square Payroll can also view their pay stubs in the Square Team App. Square Contracts helps sellers protect themselves by creating custom and template-based digital contracts with e-signature support for uses such as service agreements and liability waivers. These contracts can be used on their own or easily added to Square Invoices or Square Appointments. Square Loyalty, Messages, Marketing, Gift Cards, and Feedback help sellers engage with their buyers in-store and online to grow their business. By linking customer data and feedback with point-of-sale and online commerce data, Square can offer sellers integrated omnichannel loyalty, marketing and feedback. Square's closed-loop system allows sellers to easily assess performance and return on investment. Square Dashboard provides sellers with real-time data and insights about orders, items, inventory, customers, employees, payments, marketing, and loyalty performance. It can be used via the web or the Dashboard iOS app. This reporting enables sellers to stay informed and make timely decisions about their business from anywhere. Finally, Square offers a developer platform including APIs (application programming interfaces) and SDKs (software development kits) that enable external developers to integrate with the Square ecosystem. Payment APIs support in-person, online, and mobile payments. Square Reader SDK enables developers to seamlessly integrate Square hardware with a seller s custom point of sale, allowing them to build unique checkout experiences such as self-ordering kiosks powered by Square s managed payments service. With Square's online payments APIs, developers can integrate Square payments into a seller s e-commerce website or online store. Square's In-App Payments SDK enables developers to build consumer mobile apps that use Square to process payments. These products are primarily monetized through transaction fees on payment volumes. Commerce APIs include more than 30 commerce APIs, through which developers can create and manage orders, subscriptions, product catalogs, inventory, customer profiles, employees, loyalty programs, gift cards and more in order to build applications that enrich and integrate with Square's ecosystem of products. In addition, these APIs enable developers to build integrations with their existing business systems such as accounting, CRM (customer relationship management), employee management, and ERP (enterprise resource planning) software. Hardware Square custom-designs hardware that can process all major card payment forms, including magnetic stripe, EMV chip, and NFC (contactless). Sellers are able to accept cards issued by Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, JCB, 8 Interac Flash (in Canada), e-Money (in Japan), and eftpos (in Australia). Square hardware can be integrated with additional accessories such as cash drawers, receipt printers, scales, and barcode scanners to provide sellers with a comprehensive point-of-sale solution. Square's hardware portfolio includes the following: Magstripe reader enables swiped transactions of magnetic stripe cards by connecting with an iOS or Android smartphone or tablet via the headphone jack or lightning connector. Contactless and chip reader accepts EMV chip cards and NFC payments, enabling acceptance via Apple Pay, Google Pay, and other mobile wallets. Square Stand enables an iPad to be used as a payment terminal or full point of sale solution. It features an integrated magnetic stripe reader, provides power to a connected iPad, and can connect to the contactless and chip reader wirelessly or via USB. Square Register is an all-in-one offering that combines our hardware, point-of-sale software, and payments technology. The dedicated hardware consists of two screens: a seller display and a customer display with a built-in card reader that accepts tap, dip, and swipe payments. Square Terminal is a portable, all-in-one payments device and receipt printer to replace traditional keypad terminals. It accepts tap, dip, and swipe payments and has a battery that lasts all day, enabling payments anywhere in the store. Financial Services Square acts as both the merchant of record for the transaction as well as the payment service provider (PSP). As the merchant of record, Square is the party responsible for settling funds with the seller and helps manage transaction risk loss on behalf of the merchant. Square's position as the merchant of record helps Square better serve its sellers. For example, as the merchant of record, we can more efficiently onboard new sellers through our website, leveraging our risk assessment models, and we have insights into transaction-level data that we use to inform our sellers and launch new products. Square has negotiated terms and entered into contractual arrangements directly with the other service providers of transaction processing services, including the acquiring processors and card networks, and indirectly with the issuing banks. These contracts include negotiated terms, such as more favorable pricing, that are generally not available to sellers if they were to contract directly with these sub-service providers. We offer a growing number of accessible financial services that make it easier for sellers to manage cash flow and get faster access to funds. Financial Services includes our Managed Payments, Business Banking, and Payroll products. Managed Payments includes next-day settlements, payment dispute management, data security, and PCI compliance. Sellers can onboard in minutes and, once onboarded, accept payments in person via swipe, dip, or tap of a card or online via a stored card on file or payment entry form. Sellers pay a transparent transaction fee for our managed payment offering. Risk Manager gives sellers insight into online payment fraud patterns and enables them to set custom rules and alerts to manage risk. Machine learning algorithms automatically identify fraud patterns and adapt to fit a seller's operations. Instant Transfer enables sellers to receive funds from their payments instantly or later that same day. Instant Transfer is an important tool for sellers that need faster access to their funds in order to better manage their cash flow or working capital. Square Savings is a high-yield business savings account, with no monthly fees or minimums, designed to make cash flow management easier for sellers. With Square Savings, sellers can easily and automatically put aside a portion of their sales into their savings account while also organizing their money within folders, streamlining the process of saving funds for specific goals and priorities, such as quarterly tax obligations. 9 Square Checking provides sellers with a FDIC-insured account that gives them instant access to their sales and the ability to immediately use those funds via a debit card (Square Debit Card), withdrawn from an ATM, or transferred via ACH. Square Loans (formerly Square Capital) facilitates loans to qualified Square sellers through our subsidiary Square Financial Services ( SFS ), which is an industrial loan corporation ( ILC"). SFS began its operations in March 2021. Square Loans eliminates the lengthy (and often unsuccessful) loan application process. We are able to approve sellers for these loans while facilitating prudent risk management by using our unique data set of a seller s Square transactions to help facilitate loan underwriting and collections. The terms are straightforward for sellers, and once approved, they get their funds quickly, often the next business day. Generally, for loans to Square sellers, loan repayment occurs automatically through a fixed percentage of every card transaction a seller takes. Loans are sized to be less than 20% of a seller's expected annual GPV and, by simply running their business, sellers historically have repaid their loan in less than nine months on average. We currently fund a majority of these loans from arrangements with institutional third-party investors who purchase these loans on a forward-flow basis. This funding allows us to mitigate our balance sheet and liquidity risk. Since its public launch in May 2014, Square Loans has facilitated more than 1.6 million loans and advances, representing more than $11.3 billion in principal amount loaned. This includes approximately $1.5 billion of Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans, excluding canceled loans, providing more than 150,000 loans to small businesses. Square Payroll allows sellers to pay wages and associated employee taxes, and offer employee benefits (e.g. 401(k) accounts). The Square ecosystem drives competitive differentiation for our Payroll product with the ability to use Payroll in conjunction with our point of sale products, Team Management, and Cash App. Cash App Ecosystem: With Cash App, we are building an ecosystem of financial products and services that helps individuals manage their money by making it more relatable, instantly available, and universally accessible. Cash App has a diverse set of customers across demographics and 