Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 41 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 45 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 120 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 121 Item 9B. Other Information 122 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 123 Item 11. Executive Compensation 123 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 123 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 123 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 123 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 124 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 127 Signatures 128 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, appears, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue, or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and growth strategies and our ability to effectively manage that growth, our ability to invest in and develop our products and services to operate with changing technology, the expected benefits of our products to our customers and the impact of our products on our business; and our anticipated expansion and growth in Gross Payment Volume (GPV) and revenue, including our expectations regarding the Cash App ecosystem, our expectations regarding product launches, the expected impact of our recent acquisitions, our plans with respect to patents and other intellectual property, our expectations regarding litigation and positions we have taken with respect to our tax classification, our expectations regarding share-based compensation, our expectations regarding the impacts of accounting guidance, our expectations regarding restricted cash, and the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We have based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategy, and financial needs. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on information and estimates available to the Company at the time of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are not guarantees of future performance. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 4 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Our Business We started Square in February 2009 to enable businesses (sellers) to accept card payments, an important capability that was previously inaccessible to many businesses. As our company grew, we recognized that sellers need a variety of solutions to thrive and saw how we could apply our strength in technology and innovation to help sellers. We have since expanded to provide more than 30 distinct products and services to sellers that help them manage and grow their business. Similarly, with Cash App, we have built a parallel ecosystem of financial services to help individuals manage their money. Our purpose of economic empowerment drives the development of all our products and services. Seller Ecosystem: Square offers a cohesive commerce ecosystem that helps our sellers start, run, and grow their businesses. We combine software, hardware, and financial services to create products and services that are cohesive, fast, self-serve, and elegant. These attributes differentiate Square in a fragmented industry that traditionally forces sellers to stitch together products and services from multiple vendors, and more often than not, rely on inefficient non-digital processes and tools. Our ability to add new sellers efficiently, help them grow their business, and cross-sell products and services has historically led to continued and sustained growth. In the year ended December 31, 2019, we processed $106.2 billion of Gross Payment Volume (GPV), which was generated by nearly 2.3 billion card payments from 407 million payment cards. At the end of 2019, our Square point of sale ecosystem had over 180 million buyer profiles and approximately 230 million items were listed on Square by sellers. Cash Ecosystem: Cash App provides an ecosystem of financial products and services to help individuals manage their money. While Cash App started with the single ability to send and receive money, it now provides an ecosystem of financial services that allows individuals to store, send, receive, spend, and invest their money. As of December 2019, Cash App had approximately 24 million monthly active customers who had at least one cash inflow or outflow during a given month. Our Sellers Our sellers represent a diverse range of industries (including services, food-related, and retail businesses) and sizes, ranging from individual vendors at farmers markets to multi-location businesses. These sellers also span geographies, including the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, and the United Kingdom. We believe the diversity of our sellers underscores the accessibility and flexibility of our offerings. We are also increasingly serving larger sellers, which we define as sellers that generate more than $125,000 in annualized GPV. Our ability to service larger sellers is due to our ability to offer more complex solutions and a greater suite of services. GPV from larger sellers represented 55% of total GPV in the fourth quarter of 2019, up from 51% in the fourth quarter of 2018 and 47% in the fourth quarter of 2017. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we had no customer who accounted for greater than 10% of our GPV or our total net revenue. 5 The charts below show the percentage mix of our GPV by seller industry and seller size: 6 Our Products and Services Seller Ecosystem: Our seller ecosystem consists of over 30 distinct software, hardware, and financial services products. We monetize these products through a combination of transaction, subscription, and service fees. Software We offer a suite of cloud-based software solutions to help sellers more effectively operate and manage their businesses. Our software is designed to be self-serve and intuitive to make initial setup and new employee training fast and easy. Our products are integrated to create a seamless experience and enable a holistic view of sales, customers, employees, and locations. Sellers get frequent software updates and upgrades automatically. Our point of sale products help sellers ring up their sales, send digital receipts, and collect instant customer feedback to improve their service. Each features integrates payments, tracks sales, inventory, customers purchase histories, and enables employees to clock in and clock out in the app. Square Point of Sale is a general purpose point-of-sale software that can be downloaded to an iOS or Android device and is pre-installed on Square Register and Square Terminal hardware devices. Square Virtual Terminal is a web-based, general purpose point of sale software product. Virtual Terminal helps serve sellers who run their business from a computer, and operates alongside companion tools such as email, customer lists, and scheduling. Square Appointments is enhanced and tailored for sellers in the services industry. It is an integrated solution that includes support for booking, retail sales, invoicing, and payments. The software can be downloaded to an iOS or Android device or used via a web browser. Square Appointments includes a free online booking site so buyers can easily schedule appointments and select their preferred time, service, and staff member. It is also integrated with Square Assistant which is an artificial intelligence enabled automated messaging tool that responds to buyers directly, quickly, and professionally saving sellers time and helping prevent no-shows. Square for Retail is enhanced and tailored for sellers in the retail industry. It includes barcode scanning, advanced inventory management, support for tens of thousands of items, cost of goods sold, purchase orders, and vendor management. It also has enhanced customer profile information in the point of sale to better support customer relationships. Square for Restaurants is enhanced and tailored for full-service restaurants. It enables staff to serve diners while also managing tables, orders, courses, and tickets. Square for Restaurants also provides back of the house functionality, such as revenue and cost reporting, helping managers and owners make informed decisions and run a more efficient business. Square Invoices is a customizable digital invoicing solution with integrated and secure online payment acceptance. This eliminates the need to print and mail statements to customers and wait for checks to arrive. Sellers use Square Invoices for upcoming, recurring, or previously-delivered goods and services, such as catering orders, contractor services, lessons, and retail orders. Square Invoices also lets sellers send estimates and collect partial payments for goods and services. Square Online Store helps sellers sell in more ways. It makes it easy to build a website and online store as well as sell on Instagram and Facebook. Orders, items, inventory, and customer data stay in sync when selling both online and in-person. Square Loyalty, Marketing, and Gift Cards help sellers engage with their buyers to grow their business. By linking customer data with point-of-sale and transaction data, we can offer our sellers an integrated loyalty program and targeted marketing campaigns, with a closed-loop system that allows sellers to easily assess the return on investment of their marketing efforts. 7 Square Dashboard provides sellers with real-time data and insights about sales, items, customers, and employees. It can be used via the web or via the Dashboard iOS app. This reporting enables sellers to stay informed and make timely decisions about their business from anywhere. Finally, we offer a developer platform including APIs (application programming interfaces) and SDKs (software development kits) that enable external developers to integrate with the Square ecosystem. Omnichannel payments (in-person, online, and mobile): Square Reader SDK enables developers to seamlessly integrate Square hardware with a seller s custom point of sale, allowing them to build unique checkout experiences such as self-ordering kiosks powered by Square s managed payments service. With our online payments APIs, developers can integrate Square payments into a seller s e-commerce website or online store. Our In-App Payments SDK, which launched in the first quarter of 2019, enables developers to build consumer mobile apps that use Square to process payments. Commerce APIs : With more than 30 commerce APIs, developers can manage orders, product catalogs, inventory, customer profiles, employees, and more in order to build applications that enrich and integrate with Square's ecosystem of products. In addition, these APIs enable developers to build integrations with critical business systems such as accounting, CRM (customer relationship management) software, employee management, and ERP (enterprise resource planning) software. Hardware We have developed powerful, custom-designed hardware that can process all major card payment forms, including magnetic stripe, EMV chip, and NFC. Sellers are able to accept cards issued by Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover. Additionally, sellers are able to accept local payment forms such as Interac Flash in Canada, JCB in Japan, and eftpos in Australia. Square hardware can be integrated with additional accessories such as cash drawers, receipt printers, and barcode scanners to provide sellers with a comprehensive point-of-sale solution. Our hardware portfolio includes the following: Magstripe reader : This reader enables swiped transactions of magnetic stripe cards by connecting with an iOS or Android smartphone or tablet via the headphone jack or lightning connector. Contactless and chip reader : This reader accepts EMV chip cards and NFC payments, enabling acceptance via Apple Pay, Google Pay, and other mobile wallets. Square Stand : This hardware enables an iPad to be used as a payment terminal or full point of sale solution. It features an integrated magnetic stripe reader, provides power to a connected iPad, and can connect to the contactless and chip reader wirelessly or via USB. Square Register : This all-in-one offering combines our hardware, point-of-sale software, and payments technology. The dedicated hardware consists of two screens: a seller display and a customer display with a built-in card reader that accepts tap, dip, and swipe payments. Square Terminal : This is a portable, all-in-one payments device and receipt printer to replace traditional keypad terminals. It accepts tap, dip, and swipe payments and has a battery that lasts all day, enabling payments anywhere in the store. Financial Services Managed Payments Sellers can onboard in minutes and, once onboarded, accept payments in person via swipe, dip, or tap of a card or online via a stored card on file or payment entry form. Sellers pay a transparent transaction fee for our managed payments offering, which includes next-day settlements, payment dispute management, data security, and PCI compliance. Square acts as both the merchant of record for the transaction as well as the payment service provider (PSP). As the merchant of record, Square is the party responsible for settling funds with the Seller and helps manage transaction risk loss on 8 behalf of the merchant. Our position as the merchant of record helps us better serve our sellers. For example, as the merchant of record, we can more efficiently onboard new sellers through our website, leveraging our risk assessment models, and we have insights into transaction-level data that we use to inform our sellers and launch new products. Square has negotiated terms and entered into contractual arrangements directly with the other service providers of transaction processing services, including the acquiring processors and card networks, and indirectly with the issuing banks. These contracts include negotiated terms, such as more favorable pricing, that are generally not available to Sellers if they were to contract directly with these sub-service providers. Instant Transfer Instant Transfer is part of our suite of financial services tools and enables sellers to receive funds from their payments instantly or later that same day. Instant Transfer is an important tool for many sellers that need faster access to their funds in order to better manage their cash flow or working capital. As of the first quarter of 2020, the fee for an Instant Transfer is 1.5%. Square Card During the first quarter of 2019, we launched Square Card to provide a new way for sellers to spend and manage their funds. Square Card is a free business prepaid debit card that enables sellers to spend their proceeds as soon as they make a sale. When a seller takes a payment, the proceeds immediately go into their Square stored balance and can be spent using their card or withdrawn from an ATM. Square earns interchange fees when sellers make purchases with Square Card. Square Capital Square Capital, through a partnership with an industrial bank, facilitates loans to qualified Square sellers based on current payment and point-of-sale data. Square Capital eliminates the lengthy (and often unsuccessful) loan application process while also filling a market gap for sellers that either wouldn t be eligible for a loan from a traditional lender or need only a very small amount of capital. We are able to approve sellers for these loans while facilitating prudent risk management by using our unique data set of a seller s Square transactions to help facilitate loan underwriting and collections. The terms are straightforward for sellers, and once approved, they get their funds quickly, often the next business day. Sellers can use these funds to make investments in their business, such as purchasing inventory or equipment, hiring additional employees, expanding their stores, opening new locations, or any other business need. Generally, for loans to Square sellers, loan repayment occurs automatically through a fixed percentage of every card transaction a seller takes. Loans are sized to be less than 20% of a seller's expected annual GPV and, by simply running their business, sellers repay their loan in eight to nine months on average. We currently fund a majority of these loans from arrangements with institutional third-party investors who purchase these loans on a forward-flow basis. This funding significantly increases the speed with which we can scale Square Capital services and allows us to mitigate our balance sheet and liquidity risk. As a complement to Square Capital, we also offer Square Installments, a growth tool for sellers where they can offer their customers the option to pay for large purchases over time. Since its public launch in May 2014, Square Capital has facilitated nearly 1 million loans and advances, representing over $6.3 billion. For Square Capital, we continued to see an average loss rate of less than 4% for our core flex loan product in 2019. Payroll Square Payroll empowers sellers to grow and manage their businesses by making it easy to hire, onboard, pay wages and associated taxes for employees, and offer their employees benefits like a 401(k). We believe the broader Square ecosystem drives competitive differentiation for our Payroll product. For example, sellers have the ability to use Payroll in conjunction with complementary products such as Square Point of Sale, Restaurants Point of Sale, and Retail Point of Sale. We believe the integration of these products results in a superior user experience. Square Payroll is available nationwide in the United States. 9 Cash App Ecosystem: With Cash App, we are building an ecosystem of financial products and services that helps individuals manage their money. Cash App has a diverse set of customers across demographics and domestic regions. Cash App primarily serves customers in the United States with its breadth of products, and also offers its peer-to-peer service to customers in the United Kingdom. Storing, Sending, and Receiving Funds Customers can use Cash App to store funds by receiving money from another Cash App customer through the app s core peer-to-peer transfer service or by transferring money from a bank account. We have enhanced the efficiency of peer-to-peer transfers by streamlining the onboarding process for new Cash App customers. Nearly all Cash App accounts with a Cash Card also have a routing number and a unique account number, which allows customers to deposit their funds directly from their paycheck. These funds can then be sent to another customer through the app, spent anywhere that accepts cards using the Cash Card, withdrawn from an ATM using the Cash Card, or transferred to a bank account (either instantly for a fee or for free in 3-5 days). As of December 31, 2019, Cash App had stored balances of $676 million from its customers, representing an increase of 102% year over year. Spending Cash Card is a debit card that is linked directly to a customer s Cash App balance. Customers can order a Cash Card for free and use their Cash Card anywhere that accepts cards to make purchases, drawing down from the funds stored in their Cash App balance. Square earns interchange fees when individuals make purchases with Cash Card. Cash Card also offers customers discounts at certain businesses through the Cash Boost program. Cash Boost is a free and instant rewards program for Cash App customers, which offers a discount at a specific business (e.g. 10% off a purchase on DoorDash) or a discount at certain business types (e.g. $1 off coffee shops). Customers can select the Cash Boost they want to apply to their Cash Card through the Cash App, and the discount is instantly applied to their Cash App balance when customers make eligible transactions. Some Boosts are selected and funded by the Cash App team, while others will be funded by our partners. Costs related to the Cash Boost rewards program that are funded by Square are recognized as reductions to revenue. Investing Customers can also use Cash App to invest their funds in US stocks and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) or buy and sell Bitcoin. Cash App makes investing more accessible by giving customers access to hundreds of listed stocks and ETFs, as well as the ability to buy and sell Bitcoin. Stocks or Bitcoin can be purchased using the funds in a customer s Cash App balance or from a linked debit card and once the order is filled, all investments are viewable through the Investing tab on the Cash App home screen. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we introduced equity investing, including the ability for customers to buy fractional shares of a stock for as little as $1, which expands access to the financial system to more people. For Bitcoin buying and selling, we recognize revenue when customers purchase bitcoin and it is transferred to the customer's account. Sales and Marketing Seller Ecosystem We have a strong brand and continue to increase awareness of Square and our ecosystem among sellers by enhancing our services and fostering rapid adoption through brand affinity, direct marketing, public relations, direct sales, and partnerships. Our Net Promoter Score (NPS) has averaged more than 65 over the past four quarters, which is double the average score for banking providers. Our high NPS means our sellers recommend our services to others, which we believe strengthens our brand and helps drive efficient customer acquisition. Direct marketing, online and offline, has also been an effective customer acquisition channel. These tactics include online search engine optimization and marketing, online display advertising, direct mail campaigns, direct response television 10 advertising, mobile advertising, and affiliate and seller referral programs. Our direct sales and account management teams also contribute to the acquisition and support of larger sellers. In addition to direct channels, we work with third-party developers and partners who offer our solutions to their customers. Partners expand our addressable market to sellers with individualized or industry-specific needs. Through the Square App Marketplace, our partners are able to expand their own addressable market by reaching the millions of sellers using Square. As of December 31, 2019, Square had approximately 500 managed partners connected to its platform. Our direct, ongoing interactions with our sellers help us tailor offerings to them, at scale, and in the context of their usage. We use various scalable communication channels such as email marketing, in-product notifications and messaging, and Square Communities, our online forum for sellers, to increase the awareness and usage of our products and services with little incremental sales and marketing expense. Our customer support team also helps increase awareness and usage of our products as part of helping sellers address inquiries and issues. Cash App Ecosystem Cash App has also developed a strong brand, which can be traced back to our compelling features, self-serve experience, unique design, and engaging marketing. Peer-to-peer (P2P) transactions serve as the primary acquisition channel for Cash App. Peer-to-peer transactions have powerful network effects as every time a customer sends or requests money, Cash App can acquire a new customer or reengage an existing customer. We have enhanced the efficiency of peer-to-peer transfers by streamlining the onboarding process for Cash App, enabling users to sign up in minutes. We offer the peer-to-peer service to our Cash App customers for free, and we consider it to be a marketing tool to encourage the usage of Cash App, which includes Cash Card among other features. We do not generate revenue on the majority of peer-to-peer transactions and for these transactions we characterize peer-to-peer costs and risk loss as a sales and marketing expense. To a lesser extent, Cash App also uses paid marketing, including referrals, partnerships, and social media, to enhance its brand and expand its network. Additionally, we see the launch and advertising of new Cash App features as an important way to attract new customers. Features such as Cash Card and Boost rewards, Bitcoin buying and selling, and equity investing enhance Cash App s utility for customers and provide a new reason for people to try Cash App. Product Development and Technology We design both our Seller and Cash App products and services to be cohesive, fast, self-serve, and elegant, and we organize our product teams accordingly, combining individuals from product management, engineering, data science, analytics, design, and product marketing. Our products and services are platform-agnostic with most supporting iOS, Android, and web. We frequently update our software products and have a rapid software release schedule with improvements deployed regularly. Our services are built on a scalable technology platform, and we place a strong emphasis on data analytics and machine learning to maximize the efficacy, efficiency, and scalability of our services. In our Seller ecosystem, this enables us to capture and analyze billions of transactions per year and automate risk assessment for more than 99.95% of all transactions. Our hardware is designed and developed in-house, and we contract with third-party manufacturers for production. Our Competition Seller Ecosystem The markets in which our seller ecosystem operates are competitive and evolving. Our competitors range from large, well-established vendors to smaller, earlier-stage companies. We seek to differentiate ourselves from competitors primarily on the basis of our commerce ecosystem and our focus on building remarkable products and services that are cohesive, fast, self-serve, and elegant. In addition, we differentiate ourselves by offering transparent pricing, no long-term contracts, and our ability to innovate and reshape the 11 industries we operate in to expand access to traditionally unserved or underserved sellers. With respect to each of these factors, we believe that we compare favorably to our competitors. Competitors that overlap with certain functions and features that we provide include: Pen and paper, manual processes, and paper currency Business software providers such as those that provide point of sale, website building, inventory management, analytics, customer relationship management invoicing, and appointment booking solutions Payment terminal vendors Merchant acquirers Banks that provide payment processing, loans, and payroll Payroll processors Established or new alternative lenders Cash App Ecosystem Cash App is our ecosystem of financial services for individuals and competes with other companies in the peer-to-peer payments, debit and prepaid cards, credit card rewards, stock trading, and Bitcoin spaces. Our competitors include money transfer apps, prepaid debit card offerings, traditional brokerage firms, and crypto trading services. We primarily compete based on our brand and the simplicity and quality of our customer experience. We invest in brand, design, and technology to keep our products fast and simple, while also improving and expanding our feature set. Reportable Segments In 2020, we anticipate changing our operating and reportable segments from one segment to two segments. These two segments will represent our Seller and Cash App businesses and will reflect the way the Company anticipates evaluating its bus