Item 1. Business. Yum! Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as YUM , the Registrant or the Company ), was incorporated under the laws of the state of North Carolina in 1997. The principal executive offices of YUM are located at 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky 40213, and the telephone number at that location is (502) 874-8300. Our website address is https://www.yum.com . YUM, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual report ( Form 10-K ) as the Company. The terms we, us and our are also used in the Form 10-K to refer to the Company. Throughout this Form 10-K, the terms restaurants, stores and units are used interchangeably. While YUM does not directly own or operate any restaurants, throughout this document we may refer to restaurants that are owned or operated by our subsidiaries as being Company-owned. Overview of Business YUM has over 58,000 restaurants in more than 155 countries and territories primarily operating under the four concepts of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and The Habit Burger Grill (the Concepts ). The Company s KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut brands are global leaders of the chicken, Mexican-style food and pizza categories, respectively. The Habit Burger Grill is a fast-casual restaurant concept specializing in made-to-order chargrilled burgers, sandwiches and more. At December 31, 2023, 98% of our Concepts units are operated by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise or license agreements. The terms franchise or franchisee within this Form 10-K are meant to describe third parties that operate units under either franchise or license agreements. The following is a brief description of each Concept and a summary of our Concepts operations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2023: Number of Units % of Units International Number of Countries and Territories % Franchised System Sales (a) (in Millions) KFC Division 29,900 87 % 149 99 % $ 33,863 Taco Bell Division 8,564 14 % 32 94 % 15,915 Pizza Hut Division 19,866 67 % 109 99 % 13,315 Habit Burger Grill Division 378 3 % 3 19 % 696 YUM 58,708 69 % 157 98 % $ 63,789 (a) Constitutes sales of all restaurants, both Company-owned and franchised. See further discussion of this performance metric within Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. KFC KFC was founded in Corbin, Kentucky, by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the restaurant franchise concept. The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee in 1952. KFC restaurants across the world offer fried and non-fried chicken products such as sandwiches, chicken strips, chicken-on-the-bone and other chicken products marketed under a variety of names. Taco Bell The first Taco Bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey, California, and in 1964, the first Taco Bell franchise was sold. Taco Bell specializes in Mexican-style food products, including various types of tacos, burritos, quesadillas, salads, nachos and other related items. Pizza Hut The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, and within a year, the first franchise unit was opened. Today, Pizza Hut specializes in the sale of ready-to-eat pizza products and operates in the delivery, carryout and casual dining segments around the world. 3 Habit Burger Grill The first Habit Burger Grill restaurant opened in 1969 in Santa Barbara, California. The Habit Burger Grill restaurant concept is built around a distinctive and diverse menu that includes chargrilled burgers and sandwiches made-to-order over an open flame and topped with fresh ingredients. Business Strategy Through our Recipe for Good Growth we intend to unlock the growth potential of our Concepts and YUM, drive increased collaboration across our Concepts and geographies and consistently deliver better customer experiences, improved unit economics and higher rates of growth. Key enablers include accelerated use of digital and technology and better leverage of our systemwide scale. Our global citizenship and sustainability strategy is reflected in our Good agenda, which includes our priorities for social responsibility, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our people, food and planet. Our Growth agenda is based on four key drivers: Unrivaled Culture and Talent: Leverage our culture and people capability to fuel brand performance and franchise success Unmatched Operating Capability: Recruit and equip the best restaurant operators in the world to deliver great customer experiences Relevant, Easy and Distinctive Brands: Innovate and elevate iconic restaurant brands people trust and champion Bold Restaurant Development: Drive market and franchise unit expansion with strong economics and value Information about Operating Segments As of December 31, 2023, YUM consists of four operating segments: The KFC Division which includes our worldwide operations of the KFC concept The Taco Bell Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Taco Bell concept The Pizza Hut Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Pizza Hut concept The Habit Burger Grill Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Habit Burger Grill concept Franchise Agreements The franchise programs of the Company are designed to promote consistency and quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises. The Company is focused on partnering with franchisees who have the commitment, capability and capitalization to grow our Concepts. Franchisees can range in size from individuals owning just one restaurant to large publicly-traded companies. The Company has franchise relationships that are particularly important to our business, such as our relationship with Yum China (defined below) and our relationships with certain other large franchisees. The Company currently has approximately 1,500 franchisees with whom we have franchise contracts. The Company utilizes both store-level franchise and master franchise programs to grow our businesses. Of our over 57,000 franchised units at December 31, 2023, approximately 35% operate under our master franchise programs, including over 13,700 units in mainland China. The remainder of our franchise units operate under store-level franchise agreements. Under both types of franchise programs, franchisees supply capital by purchasing or leasing the land, building, equipment, signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term, by reinvesting in the business. In certain historical refranchising transactions the Company may have retained ownership of land and building and continues to lease them to the franchisee. Store-level franchise agreements typically require payment to the Company of certain upfront fees such as initial fees paid upon opening of a store, fees paid to renew the term of the franchise agreement and fees paid in the event the franchise agreement is transferred to another franchisee. Franchisees also pay monthly continuing fees based on a percentage of their restaurants sales (typically between 4% to 6%) and are required to spend a certain amount to advertise and promote the brand. Under master franchise arrangements, the Company enters into agreements that allow master franchisees to operate restaurants as well as sub-franchise restaurants within certain geographic territories. Master franchisees are typically responsible for overseeing development within their territories and performing certain other administrative duties with regard to the oversight of sub-franchisees. In exchange, master franchisees retain a certain percentage of fees payable by the sub-franchisees under their franchise agreements and often pay lower fees for the restaurants they operate. 4 On October 31, 2016, we completed the spin-off of our China business into an independent, publicly-traded company under the name of Yum China Holdings, Inc. ( Yum China ). As our largest master franchisee, Yum China, pays the Company a continuing fee of 3% on system sales of our Concepts in mainland China. The use by Yum China of certain of our material trademarks and service marks is governed by a master license agreement between Yum Restaurants Consulting (Shanghai) Company Limited, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Yum China, and YUM, through YRI China Franchising LLC, a subsidiary of YUM. The Company seeks to maintain strong and open relationships with our franchisees and their representatives. To this end, the Company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee community and their representative organizations on key aspects of the business, including products, technology, equipment, operational improvements and standards. Restaurant Operations Through its Concepts, YUM develops, operates and franchises a worldwide system of both traditional and non-traditional Quick Service Restaurants ( QSR ). Traditional units can feature dine-in, carryout, drive-thru and delivery services. Non-traditional units include express units that have a more limited menu, usually generate lower sales volumes and operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service stations, train stations, subways, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient. Most restaurants in each Concept offer consumers the ability to dine in, carryout and/or have the Concepts food delivered either by store-level personnel or third-party delivery services such as aggregators. In addition, Taco Bell, KFC and Habit Burger Grill offer a drive-thru option in many stores. Pizza Hut offers a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis. Restaurant management structure varies by Concept, unit size and franchise organization. Generally, each restaurant is led by a restaurant general manager ( RGM ), together with one or more assistant managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant. Each Concept issues manuals, which may then be customized to meet local regulations and customs. These manuals set forth standards and requirements for restaurant operations, including food safety and quality, food handling and product preparation procedures, equipment maintenance, facility standards and accounting control procedures. Each franchise organization and their respective restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their units, including all matters related to employment of restaurant staff, and for ensuring compliance with operating standards. Digital and technology are at the core of our Recipe for Good Growth. In recent years the Company has focused on building and acquiring a distinctive set of solutions with next-generation capabilities tailored for our brands and scaling these common digital and technology platforms across the globe. The Company's technology initiatives are aligned with the Easy element of its Relevant, Easy and Distinctive Brands growth driver: easy experiences for our customers, easy operations for our team members and franchisees and easy insights from our data. Together, our technological initiatives are designed to simultaneously enhance the experience for our customers and restaurant-level employees while driving profitable sales growth. Digital sales include transactions where consumers at system restaurants utilize ordering interaction that is primarily facilitated by automated technology. In 2023, our system restaurants generated digital sales of $29 billion, representing over 45% of overall system sales. The Company and its Concepts own numerous registered trademarks. The Company believes that many of these marks, including our Kentucky Fried Chicken , KFC , Taco Bell , Pizza Hut and The Habit marks, have significant value and material importance to our business. The Company s policy is to pursue registration of important marks whenever feasible and to challenge any infringement of our marks vigorously. The use of certain of these marks by franchisees has been authorized in our franchise agreements. Under current law and with proper use, the Company s rights in our marks can generally last indefinitely. The Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment and technology which, while valuable, are not currently considered material to our business. Supply and Distribution The Company and franchisees of the Concepts are substantial purchasers of a number of food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. The principal items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, paper and packaging materials. Prices paid for these supplies fluctuate. When prices increase, the Concepts may attempt to pass on such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can be done in practice. The Company does not typically experience significant continuous shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these supplies are generally available. 5 In the U.S., the Company, along with the representatives of the Company s KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut franchisee groups, are members of Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, LLC ( RSCS ), a third party which is responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. Additionally, The Habit Burger Grill entered into a purchasing agreement with RSCS effective July 31, 2020. The core mission of RSCS is to provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment. This arrangement combines the purchasing power of the Company-owned and franchisee restaurants, which the Company believes leverages the system s scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in the purchasing function. The Company also believes that RSCS fosters closer alignment of interests and a stronger relationship with our franchisee community. Most food products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third-party distribution companies. In the U.S., McLane Foodservice, Inc. is the exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in Company-owned restaurants and for a substantial number of franchisee restaurants. Outside the U.S., we and our Concepts franchisees primarily use decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global, regional and local suppliers and distributors. Our international franchisees generally select and manage their own third-party suppliers and distributors, subject to our internal standards. All suppliers and distributors are expected to provide products and/or services that comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in the state and/or country in which they operate as well as comply with our internal standards. Advertising and Promotional Programs Company-owned and franchise restaurants are required to spend a percentage of their respective restaurants sales on advertising programs with the goal of increasing sales and enhancing the reputation of the Concepts. Advertising may be conducted nationally, regionally and locally. When multiple franchisees operate in the same country or region, the national and regional advertising spending is typically conducted by a cooperative to which the franchisees and Company-owned restaurants, if any, contribute funds as a percentage of restaurants sales. The contributions are primarily used to pay for expenses relating to purchasing media for advertising, market research, commercial production, talent payments and other support functions for the respective Concepts. We have the right to control the advertising activities of certain advertising cooperatives, typically in markets where we have Company-owned restaurants, through our majority voting rights. Working Capital Information about the Company s working capital is included in MD A in Part II, Item 7 and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Part II, Item 8. Seasonal Operations The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. Competition The retail food industry, in which our Concepts compete, is made up of supermarkets, supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars, delicatessens and restaurants (including those in the QSR segment), and is intensely competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service reputation, restaurant location and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. Competition has also increased from and been enabled by delivery aggregators and other food delivery services in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas. Our Concepts also face competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. The retail food industry is often affected by: changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power. Within the retail food industry, each of our Concepts competes with international, national and regional chains as well as locally-owned establishments, not only for customers, but also for management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. Given the various types and vast number of competitors, our Concepts do not constitute a significant portion of the retail food industry in terms of number of system units or system sales, either on a worldwide or individual country basis. 6 Environmental Matters The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect our earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures. However, the Company cannot predict the effect on our operations due to possible future environmental legislation or regulations. During 2023, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated. Government Regulation U.S. Operations. The Company and its U.S. operations, as well as our franchisees, are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business, including laws and regulations concerning information security, privacy, labor and employment, health, marketing, food labeling, competition, public accommodation, sanitation and safety. Each of our and our Concepts franchisees restaurants in the U.S. must comply with licensing requirements and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, sanitation, safety, fire and zoning agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. In addition, each Concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the franchisor/franchisee relationship. To date, the Company has not been materially adversely affected by such licensing requirements and regulations or by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals. International Operations . Our and our Concepts franchisees restaurants outside the U.S. are subject to national and local laws and regulations which have similarities to those affecting U.S. restaurants but may differ among jurisdictions. The restaurants outside the U.S. are also subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment, laws regulating foreign investment and anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. See