Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II 27 Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B. Other Information 92 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III 94 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 94 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV 95 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 100 PART I Item 1. B usiness Overview Zimmer Biomet is a global medical technology leader with a comprehensive portfolio designed to maximize mobility and improve health. We design, manufacture and market orthopedic reconstructive products; sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products; craniomaxillofacial and thoracic ( CMFT ) products; surgical products; and a suite of integrated digital and robotic technologies that leverage data, data analytics and artificial intelligence. We collaborate with healthcare professionals around the globe to advance the pace of innovation. Our products and solutions help treat patients suffering from disorders of, or injuries to, bones, joints or supporting soft tissues. Together with healthcare professionals, we help millions of people live better lives. In this report, Zimmer Biomet, we, us, our, the Company and similar words refer collectively to Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Zimmer Biomet Holdings refers to the parent company only. Zimmer Biomet Holdings was incorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our history dates to 1927, when Zimmer Manufacturing Company, a predecessor, was founded in Warsaw, Indiana. On August 6, 2001, we were spun off from our former parent and became an independent public company. In 2015, we acquired LVB Acquisition, Inc. ( LVB ), the parent company of Biomet, Inc. ( Biomet ), and LVB and Biomet became our wholly-owned subsidiaries. In connection with the merger, we changed our name from Zimmer Holdings, Inc. to Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. On March 1, 2022, we completed the spinoff of our spine and dental businesses into a new public company, ZimVie Inc. ( ZimVie ). The transaction was intended to benefit our stockholders by enhancing the focus of both Zimmer Biomet and ZimVie to meet the needs of patients and customers and, therefore, achieve faster growth and deliver greater value for all stakeholders. Customers, Sales and Marketing Our primary customers include orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, and other specialists, healthcare institutions, stocking distributors, healthcare dealers and, in their capacity as agents, healthcare purchasing organizations or buying groups. These customers range from large multinational enterprises to independent clinicians. We market and sell products through two principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, such as hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, referred to as direct channel accounts; and 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers. With direct channel accounts and some healthcare dealers, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers. With sales to stocking distributors, some healthcare dealers and some hospitals, title to product passes upon shipment. Consignment sales represented approximately 85 percent of our net sales in 2023. No individual customer accounted for more than 2 percent of our net sales for 2023. We stock inventory in our warehouse facilities and retain title to consigned inventory in an effort to have sufficient quantities available when products are needed for surgical procedures. Safety stock levels are determined based on a number of factors, including demand, manufacturing lead times and quantities required to maintain service levels. We also carry trade accounts receivable balances based on credit terms that are generally consistent with local market practices. We utilize a network of sales associates, sales managers and support personnel, some of whom are employed or contracted by independent distributors and sales agencies. We invest a significant amount of time and expense in training sales associates in how to use specific products and how to best inform surgeons of product uses and features. Sales force representatives must have strong technical selling and medical education skills to provide technical support for surgeons. In response to the different healthcare systems throughout the world, our sales and marketing strategies and organizational structures differ by region. We utilize a global approach to sales force training, marketing and medical education to provide consistent, high quality service. Additionally, we keep current with key surgical developments and other issues related to orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, other specialists, and the medical procedures they perform. 4 We allocate resources to achieve our operating profit goals through three regional operating segments. Our operating segments are comprised of the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ); and Asia Pacific. The following is a summary of our operating segments. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our segments. Americas. The Americas operating segment is our largest operating segment. This segment is comprised principally of the U.S. and includes other North, Central and South American markets. This segment also includes research, development engineering, medical education and brand management for our product category headquarter locations. The U.S. accounted for approximately 95 percent of net sales in this region in 2023. The U.S. sales force consists of a combination of employees and independent sales agents, most of whom sell products exclusively for Zimmer Biomet. The sales force in the U.S. receives a commission on product sales and is responsible for many operating decisions and costs. In this region, we contract with group purchasing organizations and managed care accounts and have promoted unit growth by offering volume discounts to customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. Generally, we are designated as one of several preferred purchasing sources for specified products, although members are not obligated to purchase our products. Contracts with group purchasing organizations generally have a term of three years, with extensions as warranted. EMEA. The EMEA operating segment is our second largest operating segment. France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom (the UK ) collectively accounted for approximately 55 percent of net sales in the region in 2023. This segment also includes other key markets, including Switzerland, Benelux, Nordic, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our sales force in this segment is comprised of direct sales associates, commissioned agents, independent distributors and sales support personnel. In most European countries, healthcare is sponsored by the government and therefore government budgets impact healthcare spending, which can affect our sales in this segment. Asia Pacific. The Asia Pacific operating segment includes key markets such as Japan, China, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Taiwan, India, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. Japan is the largest market within this segment, accounting for approximately 50 percent of the region s sales in 2023. In Japan and most countries in the Asia Pacific region, we maintain a network of dealers, who act as order agents on behalf of hospitals in the region, and sales associates, who build and maintain relationships with orthopedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in their markets. The knowledge and skills of these sales associates play a critical role in providing service, product information and support to surgeons. In certain countries of this region, healthcare is sponsored by governments. Seasonality Our business is seasonal in nature to some extent, as many of our products are used in elective procedures, which typically decline during the summer months and can increase at the end of the year once annual deductibles have been met on health insurance plans. Additionally, with sales to customers where title to product passes upon shipment, these customers may purchase items in large quantities if incentives are offered or if there are new product offerings in a market, which could cause period-to-period differences in sales. Distribution We distribute our products both through large, centralized warehouses and through smaller, market specific facilities, depending on the needs of the market. We maintain large, centralized warehouses in the U.S. and Europe to be able to efficiently distribute our products to customers in those regions. In addition to these centralized warehouses, we maintain smaller distribution facilities in the U.S. and in each of the countries where we have a direct sales presence. In many locations, our inventory is consigned to the healthcare institution. We generally ship our orders via expedited courier. Since most of our sales occur at the time of an elective procedure, we generally do not have firm orders. Products Our products include orthopedic reconstructive products; sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products; CMFT products; surgical products; and a suite of integrated digital and robotic technologies. 5 KNEES Total knee replacement surgeries typically include a femoral component, a patella (knee cap), a tibial tray and an articular surface (placed on the tibial tray). Knee replacement surgeries include first-time, or primary, joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the replacement, repair or enhancement of an implant or component from a previous procedure. There are also procedures for partial reconstruction of the knee, which treat limited knee degeneration and involve the replacement of only one side, or compartment, of the knee with a unicompartmental knee prosthesis. Our significant knee brands include the Persona Knee, NexGen Knee Implants, Vanguard Knee, and Oxford Partial Knee. Additionally, our ROSA Robot utilizes robotic technologies to assist a surgeon with implant positioning in total knee arthroplasty or partial knee arthroplasty. HIPS Total hip replacement surgeries replace both the head of the femur and the socket portion of the pelvis (acetabulum) of the natural hip. Hip procedures include first-time, or primary, joint replacement as well as revision procedures. Hip implant procedures involve the use of bone cement to attach or affix the prosthetic components to the surrounding bone, or are press-fit into bone, which means that they have a surface that bone affixes to through either ongrowth or ingrowth technologies. Our significant hip brands include the Taperloc Hip System, Avenir Complete Hip System, Arcos Modular Hip System, and G7 Acetabular System. Our ROSA Robot is also utilized in hip procedures. S.E.T. Our S.E.T. product category includes sports medicine, biologics, foot and ankle, upper extremities, trauma and CMFT products. Our sports medicine products are primarily for the repair of soft tissue injuries, most commonly used in the knee and shoulder. Sports medicine products represented 11 percent of our S.E.T. product category net sales in 2023. Our biologics products are used as early intervention for joint preservation or to support surgical procedures. Biologics products represented 8 percent of our S.E.T. product category net sales in 2023. Our foot and ankle and upper extremities products are designed to treat arthritic conditions and fractures in the foot, ankle, shoulder, elbow and wrist. Our foot and ankle products represented 4 percent of our S.E.T. product category net sales in 2023. Our upper extremities products represented 33 percent of our S.E.T. product category net sales in 2023. Our trauma products are used to stabilize damaged or broken bones and their surrounding tissues to support the body s natural healing process. Trauma products represented 24 percent of our S.E.T. product category net sales in 2023. Our CMFT product division includes face and skull reconstruction products as well as products that fixate and stabilize the bones of the chest in order to facilitate healing or reconstruction after open heart surgery, trauma or for deformities of the chest. CMFT products represented 20 percent of our S.E.T. product category net sales in 2023. Our significant S.E.T. brands include the JuggerKnot Soft Anchor System, Gel-One Cross-linked Hyaluronate, Comprehensive Shoulder, Natural Nail System, and SternaLock System. Gel-One is a registered trademark of Seikagaku Corporation. OTHER Our other product category primarily includes our robotic technology, surgical and bone cement products. We market a collective suite of our products and technologies as the ZBEdge TM Platform. The ZBEdge Platform connects robotic and digital technologies together to collect data before, during and after surgery, that can deliver insights to surgeons to assist in making informed decisions on patient care. Research and Development We have extensive research and development activities to develop new surgical techniques, including robotic techniques, materials, biologics and product designs. The research and development teams work closely with our strategic brand marketing function. The rapid commercialization of new data solutions, surgical techniques, innovative new materials, biologics products, and implant and instrument designs remains one of our core strategies and continues to be an important driver of sales growth. We are broadening our offerings in certain of our product categories and exploring new technologies, including artificial intelligence and machine learning, with possible applications in multiple areas. Our primary research and development facility is located in Warsaw, Indiana. We have other research and development personnel based in, among other places, Canada, China, France, Switzerland and other U.S. locations. As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 2,200 research and development employees worldwide. We expect to continue to identify innovative technologies, which may include acquiring complementary products or businesses, establishing technology licensing arrangements or strategic alliances. 6 Government Regulation and Compliance Our operations, products and customers are subject to extensive government regulation by numerous government agencies, both within and outside the U.S. We are subject to supranational, national, regional and local regulations affecting, among other things, the development, design, manufacturing, product standards, packaging, advertising, promotion, labeling, marketing and post-market surveillance of medical products and medical devices in many of the countries in which our products are sold. Our global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent, unpredictable and complex. There is a global trend toward increased regulatory activity related to medical products and medical devices. Medical Product and Medical Device Regulation In the U.S., numerous laws and regulations govern the processes by which our products are brought to market. These include the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended ( FDCA ), and associated regulations. U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) regulations control all aspects of the development, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, marketing, distribution and post-market surveillance of medical products and medical devices. All of our devices marketed in the U.S. have been cleared or approved by the FDA, except for those exempt from FDA premarket clearance and approval and those in commercial distribution prior to May 28, 1976. The process of obtaining FDA clearance or approval to market a product is resource intensive, lengthy, and costly. The FDA review may involve substantial delays that adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. Most of our new products fall into a classification that requires the submission of a Premarket Notification (510(k)) to the FDA before we can market the new device. This process requires us to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is at least as safe and effective as, that is, substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device. Other devices we develop and market require stringent FDA clinical investigation and Premarket Approval ( PMA ) requirements, including submission of clinical and laboratory data that establishes that the new medical device is safe and effective. Additionally, certain of our new products incorporate innovations related to artificial intelligence, machine learning and software as a medical device, which are subject to emerging FDA oversight and regulation. We are subject to FDA Quality System regulations governing design and manufacturing practices, testing, manufacturing quality assurance, labeling and record keeping and reporting requirements for our products, which apply both to our own and to our third-party manufacturers' operations. We are required to establish a quality system by which we monitor our (and our third-party manufacturers') manufacturing processes and maintain records that show compliance with FDA regulations and manufacturers' written specifications and procedures. There are also requirements of state and local governments with which we must comply in the manufacture and marketing of our products. The FDA conducts announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with its Quality System, and other applicable, regulations. If in connection with these inspections the FDA believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures, it may issue inspectional observations on Form FDA-483 ( Form 483 ) that would necessitate prompt corrective action. If FDA inspectional observations are not addressed and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the FDA s satisfaction, the FDA may issue a warning letter (which would similarly necessitate prompt corrective action) and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action, including the imposition of operating restrictions, including ceasing operations on one or more facilities, enjoining and restraining legal violations pertaining to products, seizing products, negotiating the entry of a consent decree and permanent injunction against us, recommending prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ ), and assessing civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. and can prevent the importation of products the FDA deems to violate the FDCA or its implementing regulations. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. We are also subject to foreign trade controls administered by certain U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department ( OFAC ). In addition, exported medical products are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the medical product is exported. 7 The European Union (the EU ) has adopted the European Medical Device Regulation (the EU MDR ), which created a single set of medical device regulations for products marketed in all member countries. The EU MDR took effect in May 2021, replacing the European Medical Device Directive (the MDD ). The EU MDR imposes significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. Products currently certified per the MDD regulations must be certified to the new EU MDR regulation prior to December 2027 or December 2028, depending upon the device s risk class. The UK additionally is in the process of creating a new medical device framework (the UK MDR ) following its exit from the European Union. The new regulation, initially scheduled to be implemented in 2023, is anticipated to be delayed until 2025. The UK, in the meantime, continues to allow products meeting the current EU regulations to be marketed. Our quality management system is based upon the requirements of ISO 13485, the FDA Quality System regulations, the MDD, the EU MDR and other applicable regulations for the markets in which we sell. Our principal manufacturing sites are certified to ISO 13485 and audited at regular intervals. Additionally, our principal sites are certified under the Medical Device Single Audit Program ( MDSAP ), a voluntary audit program developed by regulatory authorities in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and the United States to assess compliance with the quality management system regulatory requirements of those countries. MDSAP audits are conducted by an MDSAP-recognized auditing organization and can fulfill the needs of the participating regulatory jurisdictions, replacing standard surveillance audits by the regulatory authorities in those countries. We are subject to supranational, national, regional, state and local laws and regulations concerning healthcare cost containment, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness reviews and other methods, including through efforts to reduce healthcare fraud and abuse, false claims and anti-kickback laws as well as the U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state and foreign healthcare professional payment transparency laws. Many authorities have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical products manufacturers in recent years. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in certain government healthcare programs. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Related Laws Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to the extraterritorial application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA ). Our global operations are also subject to non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, such as the United Kingdom Bribery Act. As part of our global compliance program, we seek to address anti-corruption risks proactively. Environmental Laws All of our facilities and operations are subject to complex national, state and local environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the clean-up of properties contaminated by pollutants. We do not expect that the ongoing costs of compliance with these environmental requirements will have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, capital expenditures or competitive position. Data Privacy Laws We are subject to evolving supranational, national, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, location, storage, disposal and protection of health-related and other personal information, including laws and regulations that regulate and restrict cross-border data transfers. Certain of these laws and regulations impose time-sensitive notification requirements to governmental authorities or consumers. We are also subject to emerging guidance governing data security and cyber risk management for medical devices as well as emerging guidance relating to artificial intelligence. Failure to comply with any such data protection laws, regulations and guidance could result in government enforcement actions (which could include civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business. Information regarding the risks associated with data privacy and protection laws may be found in