Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II 30 Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 100 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 100 Item 9B. Other Information 101 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 101 PART III 102 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 102 Item 11. Executive Compensation 102 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 102 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 102 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 102 PART IV 103 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 103 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 108 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Zimmer Biomet is a global leader in musculoskeletal healthcare. We design, manufacture and market orthopedic reconstructive products sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products spine, craniomaxillofacial and thoracic ( CMFT ) products dental implants and related surgical products. We collaborate with healthcare professionals around the globe to advance the pace of innovation. Our products and solutions help treat patients suffering from disorders of, or injuries to, bones, joints or supporting soft tissues. Together with healthcare professionals, we help millions of people live better lives. In this report, Zimmer Biomet, we, us, our, the Company and similar words refer collectively to Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Zimmer Biomet Holdings refers to the parent company only. Zimmer Biomet Holdings was incorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our history dates to 1927, when Zimmer Manufacturing Company, a predecessor, was founded in Warsaw, Indiana. On August 6, 2001, we were spun off from our former parent and became an independent public company. In 2015, we acquired LVB Acquisition, Inc. ( LVB ), the parent company of Biomet, Inc. ( Biomet ), and LVB and Biomet became our wholly-owned subsidiaries. In connection with the merger, we changed our name from Zimmer Holdings, Inc. to Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. On February 5, 2021, we announced our intention to pursue a plan to spin off our Spine and Dental businesses into a new public company named ZimVie Inc. ( ZimVie ). The planned transaction is intended to benefit our stockholders by enhancing the focus of both Zimmer Biomet and ZimVie to meet the needs of patients and customers and, therefore, achieve faster growth and deliver greater value for all stakeholders. The transaction is intended to qualify as a tax-free distribution, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, to U.S. stockholders of new publicly traded stock in ZimVie. The expected completion date of the spinoff is March 1, 2022. Customers, Sales and Marketing Our primary customers include orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, oral surgeons, and other specialists, dentists, hospitals, stocking distributors, healthcare dealers and, in their capacity as agents, healthcare purchasing organizations or buying groups. These customers range from large multinational enterprises to independent clinicians and dentists. We market and sell products through three principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, such as hospitals, referred to as direct channel accounts 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers and 3) directly to dental practices and dental laboratories. With direct channel accounts and some healthcare dealers, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers. With sales to stocking distributors, some healthcare dealers and hospitals, dental practices and dental laboratories, title to product passes upon shipment. Consignment sales represented approximately 80 percent of our net sales in 2021. No individual customer accounted for more than 1 percent of our net sales for 2021. We stock inventory in our warehouse facilities and retain title to consigned inventory in an effort to have sufficient quantities available when products are needed for surgical procedures. Safety stock levels are determined based on a number of factors, including demand, manufacturing lead times and quantities required to maintain service levels. We also carry trade accounts receivable balances based on credit terms that are generally consistent with local market practices. We utilize a network of sales associates, sales managers and support personnel, some of whom are employed or contracted by independent distributors and sales agencies. We invest a significant amount of time and expense in training sales associates in how to use specific products and how to best inform surgeons of product features and uses. Sales force representatives must have strong technical selling skills and medical education to provide technical support for surgeons. In response to the different healthcare systems throughout the world, our sales and marketing strategies and organizational structures differ by region. We utilize a global approach to sales force training, marketing and medical education to provide consistent, high quality service. Additionally, we keep current with key surgical 4 developments and other issues related to orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, other specialists, dentists and oral surgeons and the medical and dental procedures they perform. We allocate resources to achieve our operating profit goals through four operating segments. Our operating segments are comprised of Americas Orthopedics Europe, Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) Asia Pacific and Americas Spine and Global Dental. The following is a summary of our operating segments. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our segments. Americas Orthopedics. The Americas Orthopedics operating segment is our largest operating segment. This segment is comprised principally of the U.S. and includes other North, Central and South American markets for our orthopedic product categories. This segment also includes research, development engineering, medical education, and brand management for our orthopedic product category headquarter locations. The U.S. accounts for approximately 95 percent of net sales in this region. The U.S. sales force consists of a combination of employees and independent sales agents, most of whom sell products exclusively for Zimmer Biomet. The sales force in the U.S. receives a commission on product sales and is responsible for many operating decisions and costs. In this region, we contract with group purchasing organizations and managed care accounts and have promoted unit growth by offering volume discounts to customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. Generally, we are designated as one of several preferred purchasing sources for specified products, although members are not obligated to purchase our products. Contracts with group purchasing organizations generally have a term of three years, with extensions as warranted. EMEA. The EMEA operating segment is our second largest operating segment. France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom collectively account for approximately 55 percent of net sales in the region. This segment also includes other key markets, including Switzerland, Benelux, Nordic, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. This operating segment includes all product categories in these markets, except for Dental. Our sales force in this segment is comprised of direct sales associates, commissioned agents, independent distributors and sales support personnel. We emphasize the advantages of our clinically proven, established designs and innovative solutions and new and enhanced materials and surfaces. In most European countries, healthcare is sponsored by the government and therefore government budgets impact healthcare spending, which can affect our sales in this segment. Asia Pacific. The Asia Pacific operating segment includes key markets such as Japan, China, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Taiwan, India, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. Japan is the largest market within this segment, accounting for approximately 50 percent of the region s sales. This operating segment includes all product categories in these markets, except for Dental. In Japan and most countries in the Asia Pacific region, we maintain a network of dealers, who act as order agents on behalf of hospitals in the region, and sales associates, who build and maintain relationships with orthopedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in their markets. The knowledge and skills of these sales associates play a critical role in providing service, product information and support to surgeons. In certain countries of this region, healthcare is sponsored by governments. Most notably, in 2021 the Chinese government began to implement a nationwide volume-based procurement ( VBP ) process across certain of our product categories that negatively affected our net sales due to distributor inventory reductions, ongoing pricing negotiations with distributor partners, revaluation of channel inventory and volume reductions as patients deferred procedures until after VBP pricing has become effective. Americas Spine and Global Dental . The Americas Spine and Global Dental operating segment constitutes a majority of the operations that will be spun off to ZimVie. The U.S. accounts for approximately 75 percent of sales in this operating segment. The Americas Spine market dynamics are similar to Americas Orthopedics. However, the Spine business maintains a separate sales force of independent sales agents. In our Dental products division, our sales force is primarily composed of employees who market our products to customers. We sell directly to dental practices or dental laboratories, or to independent stocking distributors depending on the market. Seasonality Our business is seasonal in nature to some extent, as many of our products are used in elective procedures, which typically decline during the summer months and can increase at the end of the year once annual deductibles have been met on health insurance plans. Additionally, with sales to customers where title to product passes upon shipment, these customers may purchase items in large quantities if incentives are offered or if there are new product offerings in a market, which could cause period-to-period differences in sales. Due to the COVID-19 global pandemic, the typical seasonal patterns did not occur in 2020 or 2021. 5 Distribution We distribute our products both through large, centralized warehouses and through smaller, market specific facilities, depending on the needs of the market. We maintain large, centralized warehouses in the U.S. and Europe to be able to efficiently distribute our products to customers in those regions. In addition to these centralized warehouses, we maintain smaller distribution facilities in the U.S. and in each of the countries where we have a direct sales presence. In many locations, our inventory is consigned to the healthcare institution. We generally ship our orders via expedited courier. Since most of our sales occur at the time of an elective procedure, we generally do not have firm orders. Products Our products include orthopedic reconstructive products sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products spine and CMFT products dental implants and related surgical products. Knees Total knee replacement surgeries typically include a femoral component, a patella (knee cap), a tibial tray and an articular surface (placed on the tibial tray). Knee replacement surgeries include first-time, or primary, joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the replacement, repair or enhancement of an implant or component from a previous procedure. There are also procedures for partial reconstruction of the knee, which treat limited knee degeneration and involve the replacement of only one side, or compartment, of the knee with a unicompartmental knee prosthesis. A developing trend in knee replacement surgeries is the use of robotic technologies to assist a surgeon with implant positioning. In 2019, we entered the robotic assistance market with our ROSA Robot. The ROSA Robot can be used for total knee arthroplasty or partial knee arthroplasty. Our significant knee brands include the following: Persona Knee NexGen Knee Implants Vanguard Knee Oxford Partial Knee Hips Total hip replacement surgeries replace both the head of the femur and the socket portion of the pelvis (acetabulum) of the natural hip. Hip procedures include first-time, or primary, joint replacement as well as revision procedures. Hip implant procedures involve the use of bone cement to attach or affix the prosthetic components to the surrounding bone, or are press-fit into bone, which means that they have a surface that bone affixes to through either ongrowth or ingrowth technologies. In 2021, we entered the robotic assistance market for hips with our ROSA Robot. Our significant hip brands include the following: Taperloc Hip System Avenir Complete Hip System Arcos Modular Hip System G7 Acetabular System S.E.T. Our S.E.T. product category includes sports medicine, biologics, foot and ankle, extremities, trauma and CMFT products. Our sports medicine products are primarily for the repair of soft tissue injuries, most commonly used in the knee and shoulder. Our biologics products are used as early intervention for joint preservation or to support surgical procedures. Our foot and ankle and extremities products are designed to treat arthritic conditions and fractures in the foot, ankle, shoulder, elbow and wrist. Our trauma products are used to stabilize damaged or broken 6 bones and their surrounding tissues to support the body s natural healing process. Our CMFT product division include s face and skull reconstruction products as well as products that fixate and stabilize the bones of the chest in order to facilitate healing or reconstruction after open heart surgery, trauma or for deformities of the chest. Our significant S.E.T. brands include the following: JuggerKnot Soft Anchor System Gel-One 1 Cross-linked Hyaluronate Trabecular Metal Reverse Plus Shoulder System Comprehensive Shoulder Natural Nail System A.L.P.S. Plating System SternaLock System SPINE and DENTAL Our Spine products division designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices and surgical instruments to deliver comprehensive solutions for individuals with back or neck pain caused by degenerative conditions, deformities or traumatic injury of the spine. Our Dental products division manufactures and/or distributes: 1) dental reconstructive implants for individuals who are totally without teeth or are missing one or more teeth 2) dental prosthetic products aimed at providing a more natural restoration to resemble the original teeth and 3) dental regenerative products for soft tissue and bone rehabilitation. Our significant spine and dental brands include the following: Mobi-C Cervical Disc The Tether TM Vertebral Body Tethering System Tapered Screw-Vent Implant System 3i T3 Implant OTHER Our other product category primarily includes our robotic, surgical and bone cement products. Research and Development We have extensive research and development activities to develop new surgical techniques, including robotic techniques, materials, biologics and product designs. The research and development teams work closely with our strategic brand marketing function. The rapid commercialization of innovative new materials, biologics products, implant and instrument designs and surgical techniques remains one of our core strategies and continues to be an important driver of sales growth. We are broadening our offerings in certain of our product categories and exploring new technologies, including artificial intelligence and machine learning, with possible applications in multiple areas. Our primary research and development facility is located in Warsaw, Indiana. We have other research and development personnel based in, among other places, Canada, China, France, Switzerland and other U.S. locations. As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 2,000 research and development employees worldwide. We expect to continue to identify innovative technologies, which may include acquiring complementary products or businesses, establishing technology licensing arrangements or strategic alliances. 1 Registered trademark of Seikagaku Corporation 7 Government Regulation and Compliance Our operations, products and customers are subject to extensive government regulation by numerous government agencies, both within and outside the U.S. Our global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent, unpredictable and complex. There is a global trend toward increased regulatory activity related to medical products. In the U.S., numerous laws and regulations govern all the processes by which our products are brought to market. These include, among others, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ( FDCA ) and regulations issued or promulgated thereunder. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) has enacted regulations that control all aspects of the development, manufacture, advertising, promotion and postmarket surveillance of medical products, including medical devices. In addition, the FDA controls the access of products to market through processes designed to ensure that only products that are safe and effective are made available to the public. Most of our new products fall into an FDA medical device classification that requires the submission of a Premarket Notification (510(k)) to the FDA. This process requires us to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is at least as safe and effective as, that is, substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device. We must submit information that supports our substantial equivalency claims. Before we can market the new device, we must receive an order from the FDA finding substantial equivalence and clearing the new device for commercial distribution in the U.S. Other devices we develop and market are in a category (class) for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and Premarket Approval ( PMA ) requirements. The PMA process requires us to provide clinical and laboratory data that establishes that the new medical device is safe and effective. The FDA will approve the new device for commercial distribution if it determines that the data and information in the PMA application constitute valid scientific evidence and that there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use(s). All of our devices marketed in the U.S. have been cleared or approved by the FDA, with the exception of some devices which are classified by FDA regulation as exempt from premarket clearance and approval or were in commercial distribution prior to May 28, 1976. In January 2021, the FDA announced a new Action Plan to address software as a medical device ( SaMD ) and artificial intelligence and machine learning ( AI/ML ). Certain of our new products will likely incorporate innovations related to AI/ML, and therefore we will monitor developments in this area closely to determine our compliance obligations and risks. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. We are also subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with its Quality System Regulation (21 CFR Part 820) ( QSR ), among other FDA requirements, such as requirements for advertising and promotion of our devices. Our manufacturing operations, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the QSR, which addresses a company s responsibility for product design, testing and manufacturing quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. The QSR requires that each manufacturer establish a quality system by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with FDA regulations and the manufacturer s written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. QSR compliance is necessary to receive and maintain FDA clearance or approval to market new and existing products and is also necessary for distributing in the U.S. certain devices exempt from FDA clearance and approval requirements. The FDA conducts announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with the QSR. If in connection with these inspections the FDA believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures, it may issue inspectional observations on Form FDA-483 ( Form 483 ) that would necessitate prompt corrective action. If FDA inspectional observations are not addressed and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the FDA s satisfaction, the FDA may issue a warning letter (which would similarly necessitate prompt corrective action) and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action, including the imposition of operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations, on one or more facilities, enjoining and restraining certain violations of applicable law pertaining to products, seizure of products, and assessing civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA could also issue a corporate warning letter or a recidivist warning letter or negotiate the entry of a consent decree of permanent injunction with us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ). Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, 8 financial condition and results of operations. For information regarding certain warning letters and Form 483 inspectional observations that we are addressing, see Note 2 1 to our consolidated financial statements. The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. and can prevent the importation of products the FDA deems to violate the FDCA or its implementing regulations. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. We are also subject to foreign trade controls administered by certain U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department ( OFAC ). In addition, exported medical products are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the medical product is exported. There are also requirements of state and local governments that we must comply with in the manufacture and marketing of our products. In many of the countries in which our products are sold, we are subject to supranational, national, regional and local regulations affecting, among other things, the development, design, manufacturing, product standards, packaging, advertising, promotion, labeling, marketing and postmarket surveillance of medical products, including medical devices. The member countries of the European Union (the EU ) have adopted the European Medical Device Directive (the MDD ), which creates a single set of medical device regulations for products marketed in all member countries. Compliance with the MDD and certification to a quality system (e.g., ISO 13485 certification) enable the manufacturer to place a CE mark on its products. To obtain authorization to affix the CE mark to a product, a recognized European Notified Body must assess a manufacturer s quality system and the product s conformity to the requirements of the MDD. We are subject to inspection by the Notified Bodies for compliance with these requirements. In May 2017, a new EU Medical Device Regulation ( MDR ) was published that will replace the MDD and will impose significant additional premarket and postmarket requirements. The effective date for the MDR was extended to May 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Under a corrigendum to the MDR finalized in December 2019, some low-risk medical devices being up-classified as a result of the MDR, including low-risk instruments, may now receive a transitional period to comply by May 2024. Our quality management system is based upon the requirements of ISO 13485, the QSR, the MDD and other applicable regulations for the markets in which we sell. Our principal manufacturing sites are certified to ISO 13485 and audited at regular intervals. Additionally, our principal sites are certified under the Medical Device Single Audit Program ( MDSAP ), which is a voluntary audit program developed by regulatory authorities in five countries (i.e., Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and the United States) to assess compliance with the quality management system regulatory requirements of those countries. MDSAP audits are conducted by an MDSAP-recognized auditing organization and can fulfill the needs of the participating regulatory jurisdictions, replacing standard surveillance audits by the regulatory authorities in those countries. Further, we are subject to other supranational, national, regional, federal, state and local laws concerning healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims and anti-kickback laws, as well as the U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state and foreign healthcare professional payment transparency laws. These laws are administered by, among others, the DOJ, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services ( OIG-HHS ), state attorneys general and various foreign government agencies. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical products manufacturers in recent years. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to the extraterritorial application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ). Our global operations are also subject to foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the United Kingdom ( UK ) Bribery Act, among others. As part of our global compliance program, we seek to address anti-corruption risks proactively. On January 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed FCPA matters involving Biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. As part of that settlement, we entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement ( DPA ) with the DOJ, which concluded on February 9, 2021, six months following certification to the DOJ and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) by an independent compliance monitor that our compliance program, including its policies and procedures, is reasonably designed and implemented to prevent and detect violations of the FCPA and is functioning effectively. 9 Our facilities and operations are also subject to complex federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the clean-up of properties contaminated by pollutants. We do not expect that the ongoing costs of compliance with these environmental requirements will have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, capital expenditures or competitive position. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal and protection of health-related and other personal information. The FDA has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices. The FDA and the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) have issued urgent safety communications regarding cybersecurity vulnerabilities of certain medical devices. In addition, certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy, security and breach notification regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (collectively, HIPAA ). HIPAA governs the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by HIPAA covered entities and their business associates. Covered entities are health plans, health care clearinghouses and health care providers that engage in specific types of electronic transactions. A business associate is any person or entity (other than members of a covered entity s workforce) that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) (through the Office for Civil Rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with reg