Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Overview 25 Results of Operations 28 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 31 New Accounting Pronouncements 31 Liquidity and Capital Resources 31 Contractual Obligations 33 Non-GAAP Measures 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 37 Consolidated Balance Sheets 39 Consolidated Statements of Operations 40 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 41 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity 42 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 43 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 44 Note 1: Description of Business 44 Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies 44 Note 3: Revenues 48 Note 4: Inventories 50 Note 5: Business Acquisitions 50 Note 6: Goodwill and Other Intangibles 53 Note 7: Property, Plant and Equipment 54 Note 8: Investments 54 Note 9: Exit and Restructuring Costs 55 Note 10: Fair Value Measurements 55 Note 11: Derivative Instruments 56 Note 12: Long-Term Debt 58 Note 13: Leases 60 Note 14: Commitments and Contingencies 62 Note 15: Share-Based Compensation 62 Note 16: Income Taxes 65 2 Table of Contents Note 17: Earnings Per Share 69 Note 18: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 69 Note 19: Accounts Receivables Factoring 70 Note 20: Segment Information Geographic Data 70 Note 21: Supplementary Financial Information 72 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 74 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 74 Item 9B. Other Information 76 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 77 Item 11. Executive Compensation 77 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 77 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 77 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 77 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 78 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 81 Signatures 82 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 83 3 Table of Contents PART I References in this document to the Company, we, us, or our refer to Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. Safe Harbor Forward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, will, and expect and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Company s financial outlook for the first quarter and full year of 2020 . These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company s industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. These factors include: Market acceptance of the Company s products and solution offerings and competitors offerings and the potential effects of technological changes, The effect of global market conditions, including North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; Latin America; and Asia-Pacific regions in which we do business, The impact of foreign exchange rates due to the large percentage of our sales and operations being outside the United States ( U.S. ), Our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs, Risks related to the manufacturing of the Company s products and conducting business operations in non-U.S. countries, including the risk of depending on key suppliers who are also in non-U.S. countries, The Company s ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts, and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions, The availability of credit and the volatility of capital markets, which may affect our suppliers, customers, and ourselves, Success of integrating acquisitions, Interest rate and financial market conditions, Access to cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S., The effect of natural disasters, man-made disasters, public health issues, and cybersecurity incidents on our business, The impact of changes in foreign and domestic governmental policies, laws, or regulations, The outcome of litigation in which the Company may be involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, and The outcome of any future tax matters or tax law changes. We encourage readers of this report to review Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this report for further discussion of issues that could affect the Company s future results. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report. Item 1. Business The Company We are a global leader providing Enterprise Asset Intelligence ( EAI ) solutions in the Automatic Identification and Data Capture ( AIDC ) industry. The AIDC market consists of mobile computing, data capture, radio frequency identification devices ( RFID ), barcode printing, and other automation products and services. The Company s solutions are proven to help our customers and end-users achieve their mission critical strategic business objectives, including improved operational efficiency, optimized workflows, increased asset utilization, improved regulatory compliance, and better customer experiences. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of AIDC products, including: mobile computers, barcode scanners and imagers, RFID readers, specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification, real-time location systems ( RTLS ), related accessories and supplies, such as labels and other consumables, and software utilities and applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, managed and professional services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, government, public safety, and education enterprises around the world. We provide our products and services globally through a direct sales force and 4 Table of Contents extensive network of channel partners. We provide products and services in approximately 180 countries, with 124 facilities and approximately 8,200 employees worldwide. Through innovative application of our technologies, we are leading an evolution of the traditional AIDC market into EAI, which encompasses solutions that sense information from enterprise assets, including packages moving through a supply chain, equipment in a factory, workers in a warehouse, and shoppers in a store. Operational data from enterprise assets, including status, location, utilization, and preferences, is then analyzed to provide actionable insights. Finally, with the benefits of mobility, these insights can be delivered to the right user at the right time to drive more effective actions. As a result, our solutions and technologies enable enterprises to sense, analyze, and act more effectively to improve operational effectiveness and achieve critical business objectives. The evolution of the AIDC market is being driven by strong underlying secular trends in technology. These trends include the internet of things ( IoT ), cloud-based data analytics, and mobility, as well as artificial intelligence and automation. The IoT is enabling a proliferation of smart, connected devices. Newer solutions, which include these smart, connected devices, capture a much broader range of information than is possible with traditional AIDC solutions and communicate this information in real-time. Cloud computing and expanded data analytics are allowing enterprises to make better business decisions through improved timeliness and visibility to information and workflows. While traditional AIDC solutions sporadically capture limited amounts of data and populate static enterprise systems, EAI solutions continuously analyze real-time data from many sources to generate actionable insights. The continued rapid growth of mobile devices and applications are also significantly expanding mobile computing use cases in the enterprise. With this expanded mobility, end-users can consume or act upon dynamic enterprise data and information anytime and anywhere. Computer vision solutions, which enable the automatic extraction and understanding of useful information from a digital image or video, are also driving the expansion of intelligent automation, which leverages our sense-analyze-act framework to improve workflows with or without a human operator. Zebra Technologies Corporation is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation, Data Specialties, Inc., organized in 1969. We changed our name from Data Specialties, Inc. to Zebra Technologies Corporation on December 9, 1986. Our principal executive offices are located at 3 Overlook Point, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069. Acquisitions Cortexica: On November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Cortexica Vision Systems Limited ( Cortexica ) for $7 million in cash. Additionally, we incurred $2 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019. Cortexica is a provider of computer vision-based artificial intelligence solutions primarily serving the retail industry, expanding upon the Company s initiative to advance our solutions offerings. The operating results of Cortexica are included within the EVM segment beginning November 5, 2019. Profitect: On May 31, 2019, the Company acquired Profitect, Inc. ( Profitect ) for total purchase consideration of $79 million , which consisted of $75 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Company s existing minority ownership interest in Profitect of $4 million , as remeasured upon acquisition. The Company also incurred $13 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019, primarily related to the settlement of Profitect employee stock option awards . The Profitect business is a provider of prescriptive analytics primarily serving the retail industry. In acquiring Profitect, the Company seeks to enhance its existing software solutions within the retail industry, with possible future applications in other industries. The operating results of Profitect are included within the EVM segment beginning May 31, 2019. Temptime: On February 21, 2019, the Company acquired Temptime Corporation ( Temptime ) for $180 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Additionally, we incurred $3 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019. The Temptime business is a developer and manufacturer of temperature-monitoring labels and devices. The Company intends to expand Temptime s product offerings within the healthcare industry, with possible future applications in other industries involving temperature-sensitive products. The operating results of Temptime are included within the AIT segment beginning February 21, 2019. Xplore: On August 14, 2018, the Company acquired Xplore Technologies Corporation ( Xplore ) for $87 million in cash, which included $72 million for the net assets acquired, a $9 million payment of Xplore debt, as well as $6 million of other Xplore transaction-related obligations. Additionally, we incurred $8 million of acquisition-related costs in 2018 and $2 million of system integration costs in 2019 . The Xplore business designs, integrates, markets and sells rugged tablets that are primarily used by industrial, government, and field service organizations. The acquisition of Xplore is intended to expand the Company s portfolio of mobile computing devices to serve a wider range of customers. The operating results of Xplore are included within the EVM segment beginning August 14, 2018. See Note 5 , Business Acquisitions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Enterprise Business 5 Table of Contents In October 2014, the Company acquired the Enterprise business ( Enterprise ), excluding its iDEN or Integrated Digital Enhanced Network Business, from Motorola Solutions, Inc. ( MSI ) for $3.45 billion in cash. Since closing the Enterprise acquisition, integration activities by the Company focused on creating One Zebra by integrating the operations of Enterprise to create a single business across all functions. Our integration priorities centered on maintaining business continuity while identifying and implementing cost synergies, operating efficiencies, and integration of functional organizations and processes, in addition to concluding MSI-provided transition service agreements ( TSAs ). During 2017, the Company substantially completed its integration activities, including the implementation of a common enterprise resource planning system. The Company also exited the TSAs with MSI. Operations Our operations consist of two reportable segments: (1) Asset Intelligence Tracking ( AIT ), primarily comprised of barcode and card printing, supplies, services, location solutions, and retail solutions; and (2) Enterprise Visibility Mobility ( EVM ), primarily comprised of mobile computing, data capture, RFID, and services. Asset Intelligence Tracking Barcode and Card Printing: We design, manufacture, and sell printers, which produce high-quality labels, wristbands, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. Our customers use our printers in a wide range of applications, including routing and tracking, patient safety, transaction processing, personal identification, and product authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, speed, and reliability. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets for improved customer service and productivity gains. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification (e.g. state identification cards, drivers licenses, and healthcare identification cards), access control (e.g. employee or student building access), and financial cards (e.g. credit, debit and ATM cards) by financial institutions. Our RFID printers and encoders are used to print and encode passive RFID labels. We offer a wide range of accessories and options for our printers, including vehicle mounts and battery chargers. Supplies: We produce and sell stock and customized thermal labels, receipts, ribbons, plastic cards, and RFID tags suitable for use with our printers, and also wristbands which can be imaged in most commercial laser printers. We support our printing products, resellers, and end-users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a particular end-user s needs. We promote the use of supplies with our printing equipment. Our supplies business also includes temperature-monitoring labels, as well as self-laminating wristbands for use in laser printers. Services: We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services including those which help customers manage their devices and related software applications. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions and multiple service levels. They are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners. Location Solutions: The Company offers a range of RTLS and services which incorporate active and passive RFID and other tracking technologies to enable users to locate, track, manage, and optimize the utilization of enterprise assets and personnel. We provide substantially all elements of the location solution, including tags, sensors, exciters, middleware software, and application software. Our location solutions are deployed primarily in manufacturing, aerospace, transportation and logistics, sports, and healthcare industries. Various sports teams utilize our Zebra MotionWorks sports solution to track the location and movement of personnel and objects in real-time during sporting events, as well as in training and practice activities. Retail Solutions: The Company provides a range of physical inventory management solutions with application in the retail industry, including solutions for full store physical inventories, cycle counts, and analytics. These solutions include the use of barcode scanners or RFID readers, along with connected software. Enterprise Visibility Mobility Mobile Computing: We design, manufacture, and sell rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computing products and accessories in a variety of specialized form factors and designs to meet a wide variety of enterprise applications. Industrial applications include inventory management in warehouses and distribution centers; field mobility applications include field service, post and parcel, and direct store delivery; and retail and customer facing applications include e-commerce, omnichannel, mobile point of sale, inventory look-up, staff collaboration, and analytics. Our products incorporate both Android and Microsoft Windows operating systems and support local-area and wide-area voice and data communications. Our mobile computing products often incorporate barcode scanning, global position system and RFID features, and other sensory capabilities. We also provide related software tools, utilities, and applications. 6 Table of Contents Data Capture and RFID: We design, manufacture, and sell barcode scanners, image capture devices, and RFID readers. Our portfolio of barcode scanners includes laser scanning and imager products and form factors, including fixed, handheld, and embedded original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ) modules. The Company s data capture products capture business-critical information by decoding barcodes and images and transmitting the resulting data to enterprise systems for analysis and timely decision making. Common applications include asset identification and tracking and workflow management in a variety of industries, including retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, and healthcare. Our RFID line of data capture products is focused on ultra-high frequency ( UHF ) technology. These RFID devices comply with the electronic product code ( EPC ) global Generation 2 UHF standard and similar standards around the world. We also provide related accessories. Services: We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services that, among other things, help customers design, test, and deploy our solutions as well as manage their mobility devices, software applications and workflows. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions and multiple service levels. They are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners. Our Competitive Strengths The following are core competitive strengths that we believe enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors: An industry leader focused solely on improving enterprise operations We are a market leader in the key technologies of EAI, including mobile computing, barcode and card printing, data capture, and RFID readers. We also provide related software, services, and accessories. Our leadership position enables us to work with and support customers globally, in a variety of industries, who are focused on implementing leading-edge solutions. High entry and switching barriers On a global basis, we have long-standing relationships with end-users and with our extensive network of channel partners. We believe these customer relationships and our strong partner network are critical to our success and would be difficult for a new market entrant to replicate. We believe a significant portion of our products are deployed with specialized product performance and software application requirements, which could result in high switching costs. Commitment to innovation and deep industry-specific expertise Over time, we have developed and delivered improved, targeted end-to-end solutions for our customers. We remain committed to leveraging our technology portfolio and expertise in the industries that we service to continue to develop innovative solutions that meet the key needs of our customers. Highly diversified business mix We are highly diversified across business segments, end markets, geographies, and customers. Additionally, we have strong recurring business in services and supplies driven by an extensive global installed base of products. Global reach and brand We sell to customers directly and through our network of channel partners around the world. This global presence gives us the capability to supply our customers with products, solutions, and services no matter the location of their operations. In addition, we believe we have strong brand recognition with a reputation in the industry as a trusted and strategic partner. Scale advantages We believe the size and scope of our operations, including market leadership, product development investment, portfolio breadth, and global distribution, give us advantages over our competitors. We believe we have the largest installed base of products compared to other companies in our industry. These characteristics enable us to compete successfully, achieve economies of scale, and develop industry-leading solutions. Our Business Strategies Leverage our market leadership position and innovation to profitably grow our core business We expect to drive revenue growth by continuing to outpace our competition in our core businesses, including mobile computing, data capture, barcode printing, and services. We expect to achieve this by leveraging our broad portfolio of solutions and product innovation and continuing to be a strategic partner to end customers. We also expect to drive growth by capitalizing on technology transitions occurring in the industry, including the transition to the Android operating system in mobile computing and transitions in data capture to newer technologies involving 2D and 3D imaging and RFID. This includes increased focus on market segments and geographies that offer share-gain opportunities. In addition, we plan to leverage our market-leading installed base to accelerate growth in attach-oriented products, including services, supplies, accessories, and software applications. Our global channel partner network is vital to helping us achieve these goals. As such, we will ensure that we provide the necessary value and support for our partners to be successful. 7 Table of Contents Drive our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision Our EAI vision is for every asset and worker to be connected, visible, and optimally utilized. We believe that secular technology trends, particularly in IoT, cloud computing, intelligent automation, and mobility, advance our vision and are transforming our customers businesses and our industry, providing us with significant new opportunities to create value for our customers and for the Company. We expect to capitalize on these trends, and in particular the proliferation of smart connected sensors and devices in our core market segments, by providing end-to-end solutions that integrate these sensors and devices with cloud-based workflows and analytics applications. We plan to continue investing in the development of computer vision and other technologies that will enable intelligent automation solutions, providing increased visibility into the enterprise, real-time, actionable information, and improved customer experiences. Our solutions will also increasingly include advanced features, functions, and user experiences to drive additional competitive differentiation. Increase our opportunity for growth through expansion in adjacent market segments We plan to drive growth through expansion, organically or inorganically, in adjacent market segments that share similar technology needs with our core markets. We will focus specifically on segments where our products and solutions, workflow expertise, and customer and industry relationships will enable us to provide significant value to end-users. Enhance financial strength and flexibility We intend to continue to improve profitability and cash flow generation through operational execution and increased productivity derived from continuous business process improvement, cost management, and focus on working capital efficiency. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. The need for companies to improve productivity and implement their strategies, as well as the secular trends around IoT, cloud computing, automation, and mobility, are some of the factors that are creating growth opportunities for established and new competitors. Key competitive factors include the breadth and quality of products, solutions and services, price, design, product performance, durability, product and service global availability, warranty coverage, brand recognition, relationships with customers and channel partners, and Company reputation. We believe we compete effectively with respect to these factors. Mobile Computing : Competitors in mobile computing and related services include companies that have historically served enterprises with ruggedized devices. For some applications, we compete with companies that provide tablets and smart phones. Competitors include: Datalogic, Honeywell, and Panasonic. Data Capture and RFID : Competitors that provide a broad portfolio of barcode scanning products and related services that are suitable for most global market applications include Datalogic and Honeywell. We also compete against smaller companies that focus on limited product subsets or specific regions, including Fujian Newland and Impinj. Barcode and Card Printing : We consider our direct competition in printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, RFID printer/encoders, and mobile printers. We also compete with companies engaged in the design, manufacture, and marketing of printing systems that use technologies such as ink-jet, direct marking and laser printing, as well as card printers based on ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving, and large-scale dye sublimation printers. In addition, service bureaus, which provide centralized services, compete for end-user business and provide an alternative to our card printing solutions. Competitors include: Fargo Electronics (a unit of HID Global), Honeywell, Sato, and Toshiba TEC. Location Solution s: We compete with a diverse group of companies marketing location solutions that are primarily based on active RFID technologies. Competitors include: Cisco, Impinj, and Stanley Healthcare. Supplies : The supplies industry is highly fragmented with competition comprised of numerous companies of various sizes around the world. Customers End-users of our products are diversified across a wide variety of industries, including retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, and healthcare industries. We have had three customers that each accounted for 10% or more of our Net sales over the past three years. All three of these customers are distributors and not end-users of our products. No end-user has accounted for 10% or more of our Net sales during these years. See Note 20 , Segment Information Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 8 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Customer A 18.3 % 20.3 % 21.3 % Customer B 13.7 % 15.7 % 14.2 % Customer C 16.6 % 14.1 % 13.2 % Sales and Marketing Sales: We sell our products, solutions, and services primarily through distributors (two-tier distribution), value added resellers ( VARs ), independent software vendors ( ISVs ), direct marketers, and OEMs. We also sell directly to a select number of customers through our direct sales force. Distributors purchase our products and sell to VARs, ISVs and others, thereby increasing the distribution of our products globally. VARs, ISVs, OEMs, and systems integrators provide customers with a variety of hardware, accessories, software applications, and services. VARs and ISVs typically customize solutions for specific end-user applications using their industry, systems, and applications expertise. Some OEMs resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. Because these sales channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration, and support services to end-users within various industry segments, these relationships are highly valued by end-users and allow our products to reach customers in a wide array of industries around the world. We believe that the breadth of our distributor and channel partner network is a competitive differentiator and enhances our ability to compete. Finally, we experience some se