Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Overview 27 Results of Operations 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources 34 Critical Accounting Estimates 36 New Accounting Pronouncements 37 Non-GAAP Measures 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 41 Consolidated Balance Sheets 43 Consolidated Statements of Operations 44 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 45 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity 46 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 47 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 48 Note 1: Description of Business and Basis of Presentation 48 Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies 48 Note 3: Revenues 52 Note 4: Inventories 54 Note 5: Business Acquisitions 54 Note 6: Goodwill and Other Intangibles 59 Note 7: Property, Plant and Equipment 60 Note 8: Investments 60 Note 9: Exit and Restructuring Costs 61 Note 10: Fair Value Measurements 61 Note 11: Derivative Instruments 62 Note 12: Long-Term Debt 64 Note 13: Leases 66 Note 14: Accrued Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 67 Note 15: Share-Based Compensation 68 Note 16: Income Taxes 72 Note 17: Earnings Per Share 75 2 Table of Contents Note 18: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 75 Note 19: Accounts Receivables Factoring 76 Note 20: Segment Information Geographic Data 77 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 80 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 80 Item 9B. Other Information 82 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 82 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation 83 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 83 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 83 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 84 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 87 Signatures 88 3 Table of Contents PART I References in this document to the Company, we, us, or our refer to Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. Safe Harbor Forward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, will, and expect and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Company s financial outlook for the first quarter and full year of 2022. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company s industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. These factors include: Market acceptance of the Company s products, services and solution offerings and competitors offerings and the potential effects of emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, The effect of global market conditions, including the North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ( EMEA ); Latin America; and Asia-Pacific regions in which we do business, The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, customs duties and trade policies due to the large percentage of our sales and operations being outside the United States ( U.S. ), Our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs, Risks related to the manufacturing of the Company s products and conducting business operations in non-U.S. countries, including the risk of depending on key suppliers who are also in non-U.S. countries, The Company s ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts, and components as well as our ability to provide services and software to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions, The availability of credit and the volatility of capital markets, which may affect our suppliers, customers, and ourselves, Success of integrating acquisitions, Our ability to attract, retain, develop, and motivate key personnel, Interest rate and financial market conditions, Access to cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S., The effect of natural disasters, man-made disasters, public health issues (including pandemics), and cybersecurity incidents on our business, The impact of changes in foreign and domestic governmental policies, laws, or regulations, The outcome of litigation in which the Company may be involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, and The outcome of any future tax matters or tax law changes. We encourage readers of this report to review Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this report for further discussion of issues that could affect the Company s future results. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report. Item 1. Business The Company We are a global leader providing Enterprise Asset Intelligence ( EAI ) solutions in the Automatic Identification and Data Capture ( AIDC ) industry. The AIDC market consists of mobile computing, data capture, radio frequency identification devices ( RFID ), barcode printing, and other workflow automation products and services. The Company s solutions are proven to help our customers and end-users digitize and automate their workflows to achieve their critical business objectives, including improved productivity and operational efficiency, optimized regulatory compliance, and better customer experiences. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of AIDC products, including: mobile computers, barcode scanners and imagers, RFID readers, specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification, real-time location systems ( RTLS ), related accessories and supplies, such as labels and other consumables, and related software applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, managed and professional services, as well as cloud-based software subscriptions and robotics automation solutions. End-users of our products, solutions and services include those in the retail and e-commerce, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, healthcare, public sector, and other industries. We provide 4 Table of Contents our products, solutions and services globally through a direct sales force and extensive network of over 10,000 channel partners, operating in approximately 180 countries, with 128 facilities and approximately 9,800 employees worldwide. Through continual innovation of our technologies, we are leading an evolution of the traditional AIDC market into EAI, which encompasses solutions that sense key operational information such as packages moving through a supply chain, equipment in a factory, workers and robots in a warehouse, shoppers in a store, and patients in a hospital. Data from enterprise assets, including status, condition, location, utilization, and preferences, is then analyzed to provide prioritized actionable insights. Finally, with the benefits of cloud computing and connectivity, these insights and directives can be delivered to the right user at the right time to drive the best next action. As a result, our solutions enable enterprises to sense, analyze, and act more effectively throughout their workflows. The evolution of the AIDC market to transform workflows is being driven by strong underlying secular trends in technology, which include the internet of things ( IoT ), cloud-based data analytics, intelligent automation, mobility, computer vision, as well as artificial intelligence and machine learning. The IoT enables the real-time exchange of an increasingly broad set of information among a proliferation of smart, connected devices. Cloud computing and expanded data analytics are allowing enterprises to make better business decisions through improved timeliness and increased visibility into workflows. While traditional AIDC solutions sporadically capture limited amounts of data and populate static enterprise systems, newer solutions that can leverage artificial intelligence through machine learning can analyze real-time data from many sources to generate actionable insights. The continued rapid growth of mobile devices and application software are also significantly expanding mobile computing use cases throughout enterprises and supply chains. With these expanded capabilities, end-users can consume and act upon dynamic enterprise data and information anytime and anywhere. Additionally, computer vision (including machine vision) technology, which enables the automatic extraction and understanding of useful information from a digital image or video, provides a key element in many of our solutions. Acquisitions Antuit: On October 7, 2021, the Company acquired Antuit Holdings Pte. Ltd. ( Antuit ) for $145 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Antuit is a provider of demand-sensing and pricing optimization software solutions for retail and consumer products companies. Through this acquisition, the Company expands its portfolio of software solution offerings to customers in these industries by combining Antuit s platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Antuit are included in the EVM segment. Fetch : On August 9, 2021, the Company acquired Fetch Robotics, Inc. ( Fetch ) for total purchase consideration of $301 million, which consisted of $290 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Company s existing minority ownership interest in Fetch of $11 million, as remeasured upon acquisition. Fetch is a provider of autonomous mobile robot solutions for customers who operate in the manufacturing, distribution, and fulfillment industries, enabling customers to optimize workflows through robotic automation. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to expand its automation solution offerings within these industries. The operating results of Fetch are included within the EVM segment. Adaptive Vision: On May 17, 2021, the Company acquired Adaptive Vision Sp. z o.o. ( Adaptive Vision ) for $18 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Adaptive Vision is a provider of graphical machine vision software with applications in the manufacturing industry, as well as a provider of libraries and other offerings for machine vision developers. The operating results of Adaptive Vision are included within the EVM segment. Reflexis: On September 1, 2020, the Company acquired Reflexis Systems, Inc. ( Reflexis ) for $547 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Reflexis is a provider of task and workforce management, execution, and communication software solutions for customers in the retail, food service, hospitality, and banking industries. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to enhance its solution offerings to customers in those industries by combining Reflexis platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Reflexis are included within the EVM segment. Cortexica: On November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Cortexica Vision Systems Limited ( Cortexica ) for $7 million in cash. Cortexica is a provider of computer vision-based artificial intelligence solutions primarily serving the retail industry. The operating results of Cortexica are included within the EVM segment. Profitect: On May 31, 2019, the Company acquired Profitect, Inc. ( Profitect ) for total purchase consideration of $79 million, which consisted of $75 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Company s existing minority ownership interest in Profitect of $4 million, as remeasured upon acquisition. Profitect is a provider of prescriptive analytics software primarily serving the retail industry. Through this acquisition, the Company enhanced its existing software solutions within the retail industry by combining Profitect s platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Profitect are included within the EVM segment. 5 Table of Contents Temptime: On February 21, 2019, the Company acquired Temptime Corporation ( Temptime ) for $180 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Temptime is a developer and manufacturer of temperature-monitoring labels and devices. Through this acquisition, the Company expanded its product offerings within the healthcare industry, with possible future applications in other industries involving temperature-sensitive products. The operating results of Temptime are included within the AIT segment. See Note 5, Business Acquisitions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Operations and Technologies Our operations consist of two reportable segments that provide complementary offerings to our customers: Asset Intelligence Tracking ( AIT ), which includes barcode and card printing, supplies, services, and location solutions; and Enterprise Visibility Mobility ( EVM ), which includes mobile computing, data capture, RFID, fixed industrial scanning and machine vision, services and workflow optimization solutions. Asset Intelligence Tracking Barcode and Card Printing: We design, manufacture, and sell printers, which produce high-quality labels, wristbands, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. Our customers use our printers in a wide range of applications, including routing and tracking, patient safety, transaction processing, personal identification, and product authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, speed, and reliability. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets for improved customer service and productivity gains. Our printers use thermal printing technology, which creates images by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate. Our printers integrate company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware that supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, Bluetooth, or 802.11 wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Enclosures of metal or high-impact plastic help ensure durability of our printers. Printing instructions can be received as a proprietary language such as Zebra Programming Language II, as a print driver-provided image, or as user-defined Extensible Markup Language. These features make our printers easy to integrate into most computer systems. We also provide dye-sublimination thermal card printers that produce high quality images and are used for secure, reliable personal identification (e.g. state identification cards, drivers licenses, and healthcare identification cards), access control (e.g. employee or student building access), and financial transactions (e.g. credit, debit and ATM cards). Additionally, we provide RFID printers that encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label or card. We offer a wide range of accessories and options for our printers, including vehicle mounts and battery chargers. Supplies: We produce and sell stock and customized thermal labels, receipts, ribbons, plastic cards, and RFID tags suitable for use with our printers, as well as wristbands for use in laser printers. We support our printing products, resellers, and end-users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a particular end-user s needs, such as chemical or abrasion resistance, extreme temperature environments, exceptional image quality, or long life. We promote the use of supplies with our printing equipment. Our supplies business also includes temperature-monitoring labels primarily used in vaccine distribution, which incorporate chemical indicators designed to change color upon exceeding predefined time and/or temperature thresholds. Services: We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services, including those which help customers manage their devices and related software applications. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions and multiple service levels. They are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners. Location Solutions: The Company offers a range of RTLS and services that generate precise, on-demand information about the physical location and status of high-valued assets, equipment, and people. These solutions incorporate active and passive RFID technologies, beacons, and other tracking technologies to enable users to locate, track, manage, and optimize the utilization of enterprise assets and personnel. We provide substantially all elements of the location solution, including tags, sensors, exciters, middleware software, and application software. Our location solutions are deployed primarily in manufacturing, aerospace, transportation and logistics, sports, and healthcare industries. Enterprise Visibility Mobility Mobile Computing: We design, manufacture, and sell rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computing products and accessories in a variety of specialized form factors and designs to meet a wide array of enterprise applications. Purpose-built devices ensure reliable operations for targeted use cases, surviving years of rough handling and harsh environments. Industrial applications include inventory management in warehouses and distribution centers; field mobility applications include field service, post and 6 Table of Contents parcel, and direct store delivery; and retail and customer facing applications include e-commerce, omnichannel, mobile point of sale, inventory look-up, staff collaboration, and analytics. Our mobile computing products primarily incorporate the Android operating system and support local-area and wide-area voice and data communications. Our products are also offered with software tools and services that enable secure data transmission while also supporting application development, device configuration, and field support to facilitate seamless, rapid deployment and maximum customer return on investment. Our products often incorporate barcode scanning, global position system and RFID features, and other sensory capabilities. Additionally, specialized features, such as advanced data capture technologies, data analytics technologies, voice and video collaboration tools, and advanced battery technologies, enable our customers to work more efficiently and better serve their own customers. Data Capture, RFID, Fixed Industrial Scanning, and Machine Vision: We design, manufacture, and sell barcode scanners, RFID readers, industrial machine vision cameras, and fixed industrial scanners. Our portfolio of scanners includes laser scanning and imager products in a variety of form factors, including fixed, handheld, and embedded original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ) modules. Our scanners incorporate a range of technologies including area imagers, linear imagers, and lasers, as well as read linear and two-dimensional barcodes. They are used in a broad range of applications, ranging from supermarket checkouts to industrial warehouse optimization to patient management in hospitals. The design of these products reflects the diverse needs of these markets, with different ergonomics, multiple communication protocols, and varying levels of ruggedness. Our RFID products include fixed readers, RFID enabled mobile computers, and RFID sleds that utilize passive ultra-high frequency to provide high-speed, non-line of sight data capture from hundreds or thousands of RFID tags in near real-time. Using the Electronic Product Code ( EPC ) standard, end-users across multiple industries use our RFID technology to track high-value assets, monitor shipments, and drive increased retail sales through improved inventory accuracy. We also offer mobile computers that support high frequency near-field communications and low frequency radio technologies. In 2021, we introduced fixed industrial scanning and machine vision solutions. Our fixed industrial scanning products automatically track and trace items that move from production through distribution. Our industrial machine vision cameras extend scanning capabilities to help provide quality inspection on product lines. We also provide related software and accessories for these products. Services: We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services that, among other things, help customers design, test, and deploy our solutions as well as manage their mobility devices, software applications and workflows. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions with multiple service levels, which are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners. Workflow optimization solutions: We provide a portfolio of solutions that help our customers improve the agility and productivity of key operational workflows by analyzing and acting on data in real time. Our primary focus is on frontline workers in Zebra s core customer segments, including retail, transportation and logistics, warehouse and distribution, and healthcare. Our workflow optimization solutions include: Software-based solutions, which include workforce management, workflow execution and task management, demand-sensing, price optimization, prescriptive analytics, as well as communication and collaboration-based solutions. Such solutions are typically delivered through cloud-based software subscriptions and leverage big data, artificial intelligence, and mobile and web applications to provide customers with real-time visibility and actionable insights about their business. By analyzing labor, inventory, transactional and real-time situational data, these solutions are able to forecast demand, prescribe actions, schedule workers, and enhance collaboration. Our software-based solutions are available with multiple service levels, and are often contracted through multi-year service agreements; Retail solutions, which include a range of physical inventory management solutions, including solutions for full store physical inventories, cycle counts, and analytics; and Robotic automation solutions, which include software-powered autonomous robots that enable customers to orchestrate workflows alongside frontline workers, improving productivity and operational efficiency. Our robotic automation solutions are available in a variety of form factors to accommodate many use cases. Our Competitive Strengths The following are core competitive strengths that we believe enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors: An industry leader focused on improving enterprise workflows We are focused on the key technology solutions of EAI that drive improved enterprise workflows, including mobile computing, barcode and card printing, data capture, RFID, fixed industrial scanning, machine vision, and workflow optimization solutions, along with related software, services, and accessories. Our leadership position enables us to work with and support customers globally, in a variety of industries, who are focused on implementing leading-edge solutions. 7 Table of Contents High entry and switching barriers On a global basis, we have long-standing relationships with end-users and with our extensive network of channel partners. We believe these customer relationships and our strong partner network are critical to our success and would be difficult for a new market entrant to replicate. We believe a significant portion of our products and solutions are deployed with specialized product performance and software application requirements, which could result in high switching costs. Commitment to innovation and deep industry-specific expertise Over time, we have developed and delivered improved, targeted end-to-end solutions for our customers. We remain committed to leveraging our technology portfolio and expertise in the industries that we service to continue to develop innovative solutions that meet the key needs of our customers. Highly diversified business mix We are highly diversified across business segments, end markets, geographies, and customers. Additionally, we have strong recurring business in services, supplies, and software driven by an extensive global installed base of purpose-built products and solutions. Global reach and brand We sell to customers directly and through our network of channel partners around the world. This global presence gives us the capability to supply our customers with products, solutions, and services no matter the location of their operations. In addition, we believe we have strong brand recognition with a reputation in the industry as a trusted and strategic partner, known for delivering high quality products that are reliable and durable. Scale advantages We believe the size and scope of our operations, including market leadership, product and solution development investment, portfolio breadth, and global distribution, give us advantages over our competitors. We believe we have the largest installed base of products compared to other companies in our industry. These characteristics enable us to compete successfully, achieve economies of scale, and develop industry-leading solutions. Our Business Strategies Leverage our market leadership position and innovation to profitably grow our core business We expect to drive revenue growth by continuing to outpace our competition in our core businesses, including mobile computing, data capture, barcode printing, and services. We expect to achieve this by leveraging our broad portfolio of solutions and product innovation and continuing to be a strategic partner to end customers. We also expect to drive growth by capitalizing on technology transitions occurring in the industry, including the transition to the Android operating system in mobile computing and transitions in data capture to newer technologies involving 2D and 3D imaging and RFID. This includes increased focus on market segments and geographies that offer share-gain opportunities. In addition, we plan to leverage our market-leading installed base to accelerate growth in attach-oriented offerings, including services, supplies, accessories, and software applications. Our global channel partner network is vital to helping us achieve these goals. As such, we will ensure that we provide the necessary value and support for our partners to be successful. Advance our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision Our EAI vision is for every asset and front-line worker to be connected, visible, and fully optimized. We believe that secular technology trends, particularly in IoT, cloud computing, intelligent automation, and mobility, advance our vision and are transforming our customers businesses and our industry, providing us with significant new opportunities to create value for our customers and for the Company. We expect to capitalize on these trends, and in particular the proliferation of smart connected sensors and devices in our core market segments, by providing end-to-end solutions that integrate these sensors and devices with cloud-based workflows and analytics applications. We plan to continue investing in the development of technologies that will enable intelligent automation solutions, providing increased visibility into the enterprise, real-time, actionable information, and improved customer experiences. Our solutions will also increasingly include advanced features, functions, and user experiences to drive additional competitive differentiation and elevate our role as a solutions provider. Increase our opportunity for growth through expansion in adjacent market segments We plan to drive growth through expansion, organically and inorganically, in adjacent market segments that are synergistic with our core markets. We will focus specifically on segments where our products and solutions, workflow expertise, and customer and industry relationships will enable us to provide significant value to end-users. Enhance financial strength and flexibility While maintaining our strong balance sheet, we intend to continue to improve profitability and cash flow generation through operational execution and increased productivity derived from continuous business process improvement, cost management, and focus on working capital efficiency. 8 Table of Contents Sustainable business model Zebra s foundational ESG priorities of human capital management, resource conservation, and climate align with our strategic focus and corporate values. Initiatives within these priorities are advanced by our cross-functional Sustainability Council, with executive sponsorship and board oversight. Our approach helps to ensur