Item 1. BUSINESS 1 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 14 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 25 I tem 1C C Y BERSECURITY 25 Item 2. PROPERTIES 27 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 27 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 27 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 28 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 30 Item 6. [RESERVED] 32 Item 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 33 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 49 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 50 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 99 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 99 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 101 Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 101 PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 102 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 102 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 103 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 103 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 103 PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 104 Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 108 SIGNATURES 109 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview AbbVie or "the company" refer to AbbVie Inc., or AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. AbbVie is a global, diversified research-based biopharmaceutical company positioned for success with a comprehensive product portfolio that has leadership positions across immunology, oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care. AbbVie uses its expertise, dedicated people and unique approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world s most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. Segments AbbVie operates as a single global business segment dedicated to the research and development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of innovative medicines and therapies. This operating structure enables the Chief Executive Officer, as chief operating decision maker (CODM), to allocate resources and assess business performance on a global basis in order to achieve established long-term strategic goals. Consistent with this structure, a global research and development and supply chain organization is responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Commercial efforts that coordinate the marketing, sales and distribution of these products are organized by geographic region or therapeutic area. All of these activities are supported by a global corporate administrative staff. The determination of a single business segment is consistent with the consolidated financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM for purposes of assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Area Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to AbbVie's key products and geographies included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Products AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. Immunology products. AbbVie maintains an extensive immunology portfolio across rheumatology, dermatology and gastroenterology. AbbVie's immunology products address unmet needs for patients with autoimmune diseases. These products are: Humira. Humira (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in the United States, Canada and Mexico (collectively, North America) and in the European Union: Condition Principal Markets Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Psoriatic arthritis North America, European Union Ankylosing spondylitis North America, European Union Adult Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe chronic) North America, European Union Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (moderate to severe polyarticular) North America, European Union Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Axial spondyloarthropathy European Union Pediatric Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Hidradenitis suppurativa (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis European Union Non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis North America, European Union Pediatric ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union Pediatric uveitis North America, European Union 1 | 2023 Form 10-K Humira is also approved in Japan for the treatment of intestinal Beh et's disease and pyoderma gangrenosum. Humira is sold in numerous other markets worldwide, including Japan, China, Brazil and Australia, and accounted for approximately 27% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2023. Skyrizi. Skyrizi (risankizumab) is an interleukin-23 (IL-23) inhibitor that selectively blocks IL-23 by binding to its p19 subunit. It is a biologic therapy approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in North America, the European Union and Japan: Condition Principal Markets Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union, Japan Psoriatic arthritis U.S., European Union Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union Skyrizi is also approved in Japan for the treatment of plaque psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, erythrodermic psoriasis in patients who have an inadequate response to conventional therapies, and for induction and maintenance in moderately to severely active Crohn's disease. Skyrizi is approved in multiple countries globally, including the United States, Canada and the European Union, for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. In psoriatic disease (psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis) Skyrizi is administered as a quarterly subcutaneous injection following two induction doses. When administered for Crohn s disease, Skyrizi is given in three induction doses via IV infusion, followed by subcutaneous injection via an on-body injector every eight weeks. Rinvoq . Rinvoq (upadacitinib) is an oral, once-daily selective and reversible JAK inhibitor that is approved to treat the following inflammatory diseases in North America, the European Union and Japan: Condition Principal Markets Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union, Japan Psoriatic arthritis U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan Ankylosing spondylitis U.S., European Union Atopic dermatitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan Axial spondyloarthropathy U.S., European Union Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) U.S., European Union Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) U.S., European Union In the United States, Rinvoq is indicated for both the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis, for active psoriatic arthritis, for moderate to severe active ulcerative colitis, for active ankylosing spondylitis and for active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis in adult patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. It is also indicated for the treatment of Crohn's disease in adult patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers and for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and children 12 years of age and older whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or when use of those therapies are inadvisable. In the European Union, Rinvoq is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults, for active psoriatic arthritis in adults who have an inadequate response or intolerance to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic medicines (DMARDs), and for active axial spondyloarthritis in adults. It is also indicated for the treatment of Crohn's disease in adult patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers and for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and children 12 years of age and older, and for moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults. 2023 Form 10-K | 2 Oncology products. AbbVie s oncology products target some of the most complex and difficult-to-treat cancers. These products are: Imbruvica. Imbruvica (ibrutinib) is an oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase. Imbruvica was one of the first medicines to receive a United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and is one of the few therapies to receive four separate designations. Imbruvica currently is approved for the treatment of adult patients with blood cancers such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), as well as certain forms of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Imbruvica is approved in adult and pediatric patients one year and older with chronic graft versus host disease after failure of one or more lines of systemic therapy. Venclexta/Venclyxto. Venclexta (venetoclax) is a B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) inhibitor used to treat blood cancers. Venclexta is approved by the FDA for adults with CLL or small lymphocytic lymphoma. In addition, Venclexta is approved in combination with azacitidine, or decitabine, or low-dose cytarabine to treat adults with newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia who are 75 years of age or older or have other medical conditions that prevent the use of standard chemotherapy. Epkinly . Epkinly (epcoritimab) is a product used to treat adults with certain types of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and high-grade B-cell lymphoma that has recurred or that does not respond to previous treatment after receiving two or more treatments. Epkinly is administered as a subcutaneous injection. Elahere. Elahere (mirvetuximab soravtansine-gynx) is an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) used to treat certain types of cancer. On November 14, 2022, the FDA granted accelerated approval for the treatment of adult patients with FR positive, platinum-resistant epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, who have received one to three prior systemic treatment regimens. Continued approval may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. Aesthetics products. AbbVie s Aesthetics portfolio consists of facial injectables, plastics and regenerative medicine, body contouring and skincare products, which hold market-leading positions in the U.S. and in key markets around the world. These products are: Botox Cosmetic. Botox Cosmetic is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent indicated for treatment in three areas: temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines (frown lines between the eyebrows), moderate to severe crow's feet and moderate to severe forehead lines in adults. Having received its initial FDA approval in 2002, Botox Cosmetic is now approved for use in all major markets around the world. The Juvederm Collection of Fillers. The Juvederm Collection of Fillers is a portfolio of hyaluronic acid-based dermal fillers with a variety of approved indications in the U.S. and in other major markets around the world to augment or treat volume loss in the cheeks, chin, lips and lower face. Other aesthetics. Other aesthetics products include, but are not limited to, Alloderm regenerative dermal tissue, CoolSculpting body contouring technology, Natrelle breast implants, the SkinMedica skincare line, Latisse eyelash solution and DiamondGlow dermabrasion technology. Neuroscience products. AbbVie s neuroscience products address some of the most difficult-to-treat neurologic diseases. These products are: Botox Therapeutic. Botox Therapeutic (onabotulinumtoxinA injection) is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent that is injected into muscle tissue. In the United States, it is approved to treat numerous indications, including chronic migraine, overactive bladder in adults who have an inadequate response to an anticholinergic medication, and urinary incontinence due to detrusor overactivity associated with a neurologic condition in adults who have an inadequate response to an anticholinergic medication. In addition, Botox Therapeutic is approved to treat spasticity in patients two years of age and older, cervical dystonia in adults, as well as other conditions. Botox is marketed in other countries around the world and licenses will vary. Botox Therapeutic is marketed by GSK in Japan. Vraylar. Vraylar (cariprazine) is a dopamine D3-preferring D3/D2 receptor partial agonist and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist. Vraylar is indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults, acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder in adults, acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults and as an adjunctive treatment in major depressive disorder. Duopa and Duodopa (carbidopa and levodopa). AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States. 3 | 2023 Form 10-K Ubrelvy. Ubrelvy (ubrogepant) is a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. Ubrelvy is commercialized in the United States, Israel, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Canada. Qulipta. Qulipta (atogepant) is a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist indicated for the preventive treatment of episodic and chronic migraine in adults. Qulipta is commercialized in the United States and Canada and is approved in the European Union under the brand name Aquipta. Eye care products. AbbVie s eye care products address unmet needs and new approaches to help preserve and protect patients vision. These products are: Ozurdex . Ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) is a corticosteroid implant that slowly releases medication over time. Injected directly into the back of the eye, it dissolves naturally and does not need to be removed. Ozurdex is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME), adult patients with macular oedema following either Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central Retinal Vein Occlusion (CRVO) and patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis. Ozurdex is commercially available in the United States and numerous markets around the world. Lumigan/Ganfort. Lumigan (bimatoprost ophthalmic solution) 0.01% is a once daily, topical prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open angle glaucoma (OAG) or ocular hypertension (OHT). Ganfort is a once daily topical fixed combination of bimatoprost 0.03% and timolol 0.5% for the reduction of IOP in adult patients with OAG or OHT. Lumigan is sold in the United States and numerous markets around the world, while Ganfort is approved in the European Union and some markets in South America, the Middle East and Asia. Alphagan/Combigan. Alphagan (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the reduction of elevated IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Combigan (brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) is approved for reducing elevated IOP in patients with glaucoma who require additional or adjunctive IOP-lowering therapy. Both Alphagan and Combigan are available for sale in the United States and numerous markets around the world. Restasis. Restasis is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Restasis is approved in the United States and a number of other markets in South America, the Middle East and Asia. Other eye care. Other eye care products include Refresh/Optive, Xen and Durysta. Other key products. AbbVie s other key products include, among other things, treatments for patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV), metabolic and hormone products that target a number of conditions, including exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism, as well as endocrinology products for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. These products are: Mavyret/Maviret. Mavyret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) is approved in the United States and European Union (Maviret) for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with chronic HCV genotype 1-6 infection without cirrhosis and with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). It is also indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with HCV genotype 1 infection, who previously have been treated with a regimen containing an HCV NS5A inhibitor or an NS3/4A protease inhibitor, but not both. Creon. Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic pancreatitis and several other conditions. Lupron. Lupron (leuprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection. Linzess/Constella. Linzess (linaclotide) is a once-daily guanylate cyclase-C agonist used in adults to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS C) and chronic idiopathic constipation. The product is marketed as Linzess in the United States and as Constella outside of the United States. Synthroid. Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism. AbbVie has the rights to sell Creon and Synthroid only in the United States. 2023 Form 10-K | 4 Marketing, Sales and Distribution Capabilities AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell and distribute its products worldwide. AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, external experts and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals and state and federal government agencies (for example, State Medicaid programs, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States many of the company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its promotional and market access efforts on external experts, payers, physicians and health systems. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products. AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels and other factors. In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers, pharmacies, patients or other customers. In 2023, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's pharmaceutical product sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 39% of AbbVie's 2023 gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily to wholesalers or through distributors, and depending on the market works through largely centralized national payers systems to agree on reimbursement terms. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the company's business. No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. Orders are generally filled on a current basis and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business. Competition The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products, therapies and biologics. For example, AbbVie's immunology products compete with anti-TNF products, JAK inhibitors and other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states, and AbbVie's oncology products compete with BTK inhibitors and other competitive products intended to treat certain cancers. In addition, in the past few years, a number of other companies have started to develop, have successfully developed and/or are currently marketing products that are being positioned as competitors to Botox. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection. New products or treatments brought to market by AbbVie s competitors could cause revenues for AbbVie s products to decrease due to price reductions and sales volume decreases. Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie s biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilars. Biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for small molecule medications, and many biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products. Humira is facing direct biosimilar competition globally, and AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and from orally administered products. In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FFDCA), the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) and the regulations implementing these statutes. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the PHSA, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is complex. Approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in 5 | 2023 Form 10-K terms of safety, purity and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data, bioequivalence studies and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies) and clinical studies. Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered by the FDA as substitutable for the original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The law continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its full ultimate impact, implementation and meaning remains subject to uncertainty. Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie s intellectual property is materially valuable to the company, and AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a patent term restoration, for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the FFDCA. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (NDA) for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. Biological products licensed under the PHSA are similarly eligible for terms of patent restoration. Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length and requirements for each of these exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a conventional drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Specific conditions of use approved for individual products may also be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days all existing exclusivities (patent and regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of exclusivity. Other types of regulatory exclusivity may also be available, such as Generating New Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) exclusivity, which can provide new antibiotic or new antifungal drugs an additional five years of exclusivity to be added to certain exclusivities already provided for by law. Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product or particular characteristics of a product is entitled upon approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may offer protection where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained or sometimes even later. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical develop