Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 33 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. [Reserved] 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 50 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 50 Item 9B. Other Information 51 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 51 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 52 Item 11. Executive Compensation 52 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 53 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 53 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 54 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 55 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 57 Signatures 58 Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Part I 1 Part I Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as may, will, should, likely, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, positioned, outlook and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below under the section entitled Risk Factors. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them, notwithstanding any historical practice of doing so. Forward-looking and other statements in this document may also address our corporate responsibility progress, plans, and goals (including environmental matters), and the inclusion of such statements is not an indication that these contents are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Available Information Our website address is www.accenture.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for company information. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website (http://investor.accenture.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.accenture.com and on the Accenture 360 Value Reporting Experience (http://www.accenture.com/reportingexperience). We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Any materials we file with the SEC are available on such Internet site. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms Accenture, we, our and us to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 2 Item 1. Business Overview Accenture is a leading global professional services company that helps the world s leading organizations build their digital core, optimize their operations, accelerate revenue growth and enhance services creating tangible value at speed and scale. We are a talent- and innovation-led company with approximately 774,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Technology is at the core of change today, and we are one of the world s leaders in helping drive that change, with strong ecosystem relationships. We combine our strength in technology and leadership in cloud, data and AI with unmatched industry experience, functional expertise and global delivery capability. Our broad range of services, solutions and assets across Strategy Consulting, Technology, Operations, Industry X and Song, together with our culture of shared success and commitment to creating 360 value, enable us to help our clients reinvent and build trusted, lasting relationships. We measure our success by the 360 value we create for our clients, each other, our shareholders, partners and communities. Fiscal 2024 Highlights We serve clients and manage our business through three geographic markets: North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Growth Markets. These markets bring together all of our capabilities across our services, industries and functions to deliver value to our clients. In the first quarter of fiscal 2025, our Latin America market unit will move from Growth Markets to North America. With this change, North America will become the Americas market and Growth Markets will become the Asia Pacific market. We go to market by industry, leveraging our deep expertise across our five industry groups Communications, Media Technology, Financial Services, Health Public Service, Products and Resources. Our integrated service teams meet client needs rapidly and at scale, leveraging our network of more than 100 innovation hubs, our technology expertise and ecosystem relationships, and our global delivery capabilities. $64.9B in revenues Our revenues are derived primarily from Forbes Global 2000 companies, governments and government agencies. We employed approximately 774,000 people as of August 31, 2024. We have long-term relationships and have partnered with our top 100 clients for more than 10 years. Fiscal 2024 Investments $6.6B $1.2B $1.1B across 46 strategic acquisitions in research and development in learning and professional development Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 3 During fiscal 2024, we continued to make significant investments in strategic acquisitions, in research and development (R D) in our assets, platforms and industry and functional solutions, in patents and pending patents and in attracting, retaining and developing people. These investments help us to further enhance our differentiation and competitiveness in the marketplace. Our disciplined acquisition strategy, which is an engine to fuel organic growth, is focused on scaling our business in high-growth areas; adding skills and capabilities in new areas; and deepening our industry and functional expertise. In fiscal 2024, we invested $6.6 billion across 46 strategic acquisitions, $1.2 billion in R D, and $1.1 billion in learning and professional development, including 44 million training hours. Our Strategy The core of our growth strategy is to be our clients reinvention partner of choice, delivering 360 value to our clients, people, shareholders, partners and communities. Our strategy defines the areas in which we will drive growth, build differentiation and enable our clients to transform their organizations through technology, data and AI to create value every day. We aspire to be at the center of our clients business and help them reach new levels of performance and to set themselves apart as leaders in their industries. We define 360 value as delivering the financial business case and unique value a client may be seeking, and striving to partner with our clients to achieve greater progress on inclusion and diversity, reskill and upskill our clients employees, help our clients achieve their sustainability goals, and create meaningful experiences, both with Accenture and for the customers and employees of our clients. We bring industry specific solutions and services as well as cross industry expertise and leverage our scale and global footprint, innovation capabilities, and strong ecosystem partnerships together with our assets and platforms including myWizard, myNav, SynOps and AI Navigator for Enterprise to deliver tangible value for our clients. We help our clients use technology to drive enterprise-wide transformation, which includes: building their digital core such as moving them to the cloud, leveraging data and AI, and embedding security across the enterprise; optimizing their operations such as helping our clients digitize faster, access digital talent and reduce costs as well as through digitizing engineering and manufacturing; and accelerating their revenue growth such as through using technology and creativity to create personalized connections, experiences and targeted sales at scale, leveraging data and AI, transforming content supply chains and marketing and commerce models and helping create new digital services and business models. Our clients turn to us to help them drive reinvention with our unique combination of services across Strategy Consulting, Technology, Operations, Industry X and Song. Our strategists and deep industry, functional, customer and technology consultants work hand-in-hand with our clients and across services to shape and deliver these reinventions. At the same time, we see AI as the new digital. Like digital, AI is both a technology and a new way of working, and its full value will only come from strategies built on both productivity and growth. And we believe it will be used in every part of the enterprise. We also believe the introduction of generative AI signifies a transformative era that is set to drive growth for us and our clients. To accomplish reinvention and take advantage of AI, businesses need to focus on talent, which includes: accessing the best people at the right time, place and cost; being a talent creator to keep people market-relevant; and unlocking the potential of talent. Our managed services are strategic for our clients as companies seek to move faster, embrace AI and automation and leverage our digital platforms and talent as well as reduce costs. As clients reinvent, we believe that trends such as sustainability will continue to be forces behind their need to reinvent and the outcomes of their reinventions. We believe our strategy to deliver 360 value makes us an attractive destination for top talent, a trusted partner to our clients and ecosystem, and a respected member of our communities. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 4 Key enablers of our growth strategy include: Our People As a talent- and innovation-led organization, across our entire business our people have highly specialized skills that drive our differentiation and competitiveness. We care deeply for our people, and are committed to a culture of shared success, to investing in our people to provide them with boundaryless opportunities to learn and grow in their careers through their work experience and continued development, training and reskilling, and to helping them achieve their aspirations both professionally and personally. We have an unwavering commitment to inclusion and diversity. Our Commitment We are a purpose-driven company, committed to delivering on the promise of technology and human ingenuity by continuously innovating and developing leading-edge ideas and leveraging emerging technologies in anticipation of our clients needs. Our culture is underpinned by our core values and Code of Business Ethics, which are key drivers of the trust our clients and partners place in us. Our Foundation Our Leadership Essentials set the standard for what we expect from our people. Our growth model, which leverages our global sales, client experience and innovation, while organizing around geographic markets and industry groups within those markets, enables us to be close to our clients, people and partners to scale efficiently. Our enduring shareholder value proposition is also a key element of the foundation that enables us to execute on our growth strategy through the financial value it creates. Geographic Markets Our geographic markets North America, EMEA and Growth Markets bring together integrated service teams, which typically consist of industry and functional experts, technology and capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge and experience, to meet client needs. The geographic markets have primary responsibility for building and sustaining long-term client relationships; bringing together our expertise from around the globe and collaborating across our business to sell and deliver our full range of services and capabilities; ensuring client satisfaction; and achieving revenue and profitability objectives. While we serve clients in locally relevant ways, our global footprint and scale in every major country give us the ability to leverage our experience and people from around the world to accelerate outcomes for our clients. Our three geographic markets are our reporting segments. The percent of our revenues represented by each market is shown at right. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 5 Services We bring together skills, capabilities, industry experience and functional expertise to help our clients achieve tangible outcomes and create 360 value. Strategy Consulting We work with C-suite executives, leaders and boards of the world s leading organizations, helping them reinvent every part of their enterprise to drive greater growth, enhance competitiveness, implement operational improvements, reduce cost, deliver sustainable 360 stakeholder value, and set a new performance frontier for themselves and the industry in which they operate. Our deep industry and functional expertise is supported by proprietary assets and solutions that help organizations transform faster and become more resilient. Underpinned by technology, data, analytics, AI, change management, talent, learning and sustainability capabilities, our Strategy Consulting services help architect and accelerate all aspects of an organization s reinvention. Technology We provide innovative and comprehensive services and solutions that span cloud; systems integration and application management; security; intelligent platform services; infrastructure services; software engineering services; data and AI; automation; and global delivery through our Advanced Technology Centers. We continuously innovate our services, capabilities and platforms through early adoption of new technologies such as generative AI, blockchain, robotics, 5G, edge computing, metaverse and quantum computing. We provide a range of capabilities that addresses the challenges faced by organizations today, including how to achieve reinvention, manage change and develop new growth opportunities. We are continuously innovating and investing in R D for both existing and new forms of technology. Our focus in our Accenture Labs includes furthering innovation beyond traditional boundaries, such as science and space technologies. Our innovation hubs around the world help clients innovate at unmatched speed, scope and scale. We have strong relationships with the world s leading technology companies, as well as emerging start-ups, which enable us to enhance our service offerings, augment our capabilities and deliver distinctive business value to our clients. Our strong ecosystem relationships provide a significant competitive advantage, and we are a key partner of a broad range of technology providers, including Adobe, Alibaba, Amazon Web Services, Blue Yonder, Cisco, Databricks, Dell, Google, HPE, IBM RedHat, Microsoft, NVIDIA, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Pegasystems, Salesforce, SAP, ServiceNow, Snowflake, VMware, Workday and many others. In addition to our mature partners, we invest in emerging technologies through Accenture Ventures. We push the boundaries of what technology can enable and help clients get the most value and best capabilities out of platforms. Operations We operate business processes on behalf of clients for specific enterprise functions, including finance and accounting, sourcing and procurement, supply chain, marketing and sales, and human resources, as well as industry-specific services, such as platform trust and safety, banking, insurance, network and health services. We help organizations to reinvent themselves through intelligent operations, enabled by SynOps, our cloud enabled platform that empowers people with data, processes, automation, generative AI and a broad ecosystem of technology partners to transform enterprise operations at speed and scale. Industry X We combine our digital capabilities with deep engineering and manufacturing expertise. By using the combined power of digital and data we help our clients to reinvent and reimagine the products they make and how they make them. This includes helping our clients to digitally transform how their capital projects are planned, managed and executed, from plant and asset construction to public infrastructure, power grids and data centers. We collaborate closely with our platform and software partners to help our clients achieve compressed transformations by redefining how their products are designed and engineered, tested, sourced and supplied, manufactured, and serviced, returned and renewed. We also design, manufacture, and assemble our own advanced automation equipment, robotics and other specialized commercial hardware to support our clients operations. Through the use of data and transformative technologies such as AI and generative AI, Internet of Things, artificial reality/virtual reality, advanced robotics, digital twins and metaverse, we help our clients reinvent to achieve greater resilience, productivity and sustainability in their core operations and design and engineer intelligent products faster and more cost effectively. And in doing so, we help them create new, hyper-personalized experiences and intelligent products and services. Song We help our clients create new, hyper-personalized experiences and services that are intelligently designed to foster loyalty and drive growth by making customer interactions more compelling, useful, and simple from initial interaction through ongoing customer service. Our suite of services spans design, digital products, marketing, commerce, and customer service. We create products and experiences that resonate deeply with users across multiple channels. We help brands amplify their value, by making their propositions clear and inspiring to stand out in a crowded marketplace. Our commerce strategies are designed to enhance sales effectiveness and create seamless buying experiences. Our customer service innovations help make support more responsive and accessible. We bring cross industry expertise, underpinning these services with Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 6 technology. We leverage the combined power of strategy, data and AI (including generative AI), ecosystem partnerships, and our ability to scale and manage programs on behalf of our clients. By doing so, we enhance our creative processes, solve client challenges more effectively, and provide solutions that are designed to be advanced, ethically sound and sustainable to help our clients reinvent how they engage with their customers. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 7 Industry Groups We believe the depth and breadth of our industry expertise is a key competitive advantage which allows us to bring client-specific industry solutions to our clients to accelerate value creation. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and trends, industry operating models, capabilities and processes and new and emerging technologies. The breadth of our industry expertise enables us to create solutions that are informed by cross industry experience. We go to market through the following five industry groups within our geographic markets. Communications, Media Technology FY24 Revenues of $10.8B Percent of Group s FY24 Revenue 40% 18% 42% Communications Media High Tech Software Platforms B2C and B2B communications service providers (both fixed and mobile), MVNO (mobile virtual network operators) and network infrastructure companies inclusive of edge and IOT connectivity infrastructure, cable and satellite communications, broadcasters and TV networks, gaming, print, online and traditional publishing, entertainment, sports, content producers (including studios), content aggregators and streaming live events (sports) and media infrastructure providers, integrated advertising agencies and creative Enterprise technology, hardware, and associated manufacturing; consumer technology, electronics, batteries, and associated manufacturing; network equipment and device providers and manufacturers, data centers; semiconductor including silicon design and development, foundries, capital equipment, and manufacturing; medical equipment companies and manufacturers Cloud-based enterprise and consumer software companies, large language model owners; both subscription and ad-driven consumer platforms spanning ecommerce, social, media, advertising and gaming Financial Services FY24 Revenues of $11.6B Percent of Group s FY24 Revenue 69% 31% Banking Capital Markets Insurance Retail and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, payment providers, corporate and investment banks, private equity firms, market infrastructure providers, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, depositories, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations, retirement services providers and other diversified financial enterprises Property and casualty, life and annuities and group benefits insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers Health Public Service FY24 Revenues of $13.8B Percent of Group s FY24 Revenue 31% 69% Health Public Service Healthcare providers, such as hospitals, public health systems, policy-making authorities, health insurers (payers), and industry organizations and associations Defense departments and military forces; public safety authorities; justice departments; human and social services agencies; educational institutions; non-profit organizations; cities; transportation agencies; and postal, customs, revenue and tax agencies Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 8 Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government is delivered through Accenture Federal Services, a U.S. company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture LLP, and represented approximately 37% of our Health Public Service industry group s revenues and 17% of our North America revenues in fiscal 2024. Products FY24 Revenues of $19.6B Percent of Group s FY24 Revenue 46% 34% 20% Consumer Goods, Retail Travel Services Industrial Life Sciences Food and beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies; supermarkets, hardline retailers, mass-merchandise discounters, department, quickserve and convenience stores and specialty retailers; aviation; and hospitality and travel services companies Industrial electrical equipment manufacturers and industrial suppliers; and construction, heavy equipment, consumer durables, engineering services, real estate, freight logistics, aerospace defense, automotive mobility and public transportation companies Biopharmaceutical, medical technology and distributors Resources FY24 Revenues of $9.1B Percent of Group s FY24 Revenue 29% 25% 46% Chemicals Natural Resources Energy Utilities Petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals companies, as well as the metals, mining, forest products and building materials industries Oil and gas industries, including upstream, midstream, downstream, oilfield services, clean energy and energy trading companies Power generators and developers, including nuclear, renewables and other conventional generators; electric and gas transmission and distribution operators, energy and energy service retailers; water, waste and recycling service providers Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 9 People Overview We are a talent- and innovation-led organization with approximately 774,000 people as of August 31, 2024, whose skills and specialization are a significant source of competitive differentiation. We serve clients at any given time in more than 120 countries, with offices and operations in 52 countries. The majority of our people are in India, the Philippines and the U.S. We have a culture of shared success, which is defined as success for our clients, our people, our shareholders, our partners and our communities. That culture is built upon four tangible building blocks our beliefs, our behaviors, the way we develop and reward our people and the way we do business. Our Beliefs and Behaviors Our leadership essentials set the standard for what we expect of all our people: always do the right thing, in every decision and action; lead with excellence, confidence and humility, as demonstrated by being a learner, building great teams and being naturally collaborative; exemplify client-centricity and a commitment to client value creation; act as a true partner, to each other, our clients, our ecosystem and our communities committed to shared success; care deeply for all our people to help them achieve their aspirations professionally and personally; live our unwavering commitment to inclusion, diversity and equality, as demonstrated by personal impact and overall results; have the courage to change and the ability to bring our people along the journey; and actively innovate seeking new answers, applying a tech, AI and data first mindset, looking internally across Accenture and outside to partners, competitors, start-ups, clients, academia and analysts to learn, respectfully challenge our assumptions and apply the innovation, and cultivate and reward our people for doing the same. Listening to the voices of our people provides the input to ensure that they have the tools and resources to do their jobs and the right learning opportunities, and that they experience a positive, respectful and inclusive work environment. We do this on an ongoing basis across various channels, including surveys and forums. Among our people who participated in the Great Place To Work Trust Index Survey , 78% agreed that Taking everything into account, I would say this is a great place to work. Additionally, we are recognized as a top 10 place to work in 11 countries, representing more than 70% of our people. Our purpose is to deliver on the promise of technology and human ingenuity. Our strategy is to deliver 360 value for all our stakeholders by helping them continuously reinvent. To drive reinvention, innovation must be at the forefront, which requires us to attract, develop and inspire top talent. Talent is one of our most important areas of competitive differentiation. As part of our talent strategy, we hire and develop people who have different backgrounds, different perspectives, and different lived experiences. These differences ensure that we have and attract the cognitive diversity to deliver a variety of perspectives, observations, and insights which are essential to drive the innovation needed to reinvent. To help achieve this diversity we set goals, share them publicly, and collect data to measure our progress, continuously improve, and hold our leaders accountable for ensuring we have the most innovative and talented people in our industry. This approach is a key driver of our progress. We recognize that some people come to Accenture having faced obstacles as an aspect of their identity or lived experience. At Accenture, we are committed to harness these perspectives and ensure that all of our people have the opportunity to thrive and unlock their full potential. We are a meritocracy. Our intention is to foster a culture and a workplace in which all of our people feel a sense of belonging and are respected and empowered to do their best work and to create 360 value for all our stakeholders. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2024 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 10 We are 48% women, compared to our gender parity goal by 2025. And, we are currently 30% women managing directors, in line with our 2025 goal. We are also working toward our total workforce 2025 race and ethnicity goals in the U.S., th