Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6 [Reserved] 37 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 95 Item 9B. Other Information 95 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 Item 11. Executive Compensation 96 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 96 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 96 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 96 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 99 Signatures 100 Summary of Trademarks 102 2 Table of Content s Forward-Looking Statements In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, strategic initiatives, industry positioning, customer acquisition and retention, the amount of annualized recurring revenue, revenue growth and anticipated impacts on our business of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. The risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed in fiscal 2022, should be carefully reviewed. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ( SaaS ) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ( VARs ), systems integrators ( SIs ), independent software vendors ( ISVs ), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ); and Asia-Pacific ( APAC ). Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from our website free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OFFERINGS For almost 40 years, Adobe s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses and governments engage and interact across all types of media. We deliver tools and services to empower individuals to create, collaborate and express their vision, transform businesses with compelling, personalized experiences in streamlined workflows and connect communities with new levels of collaboration. While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products, services and solutions, we focus our investments in two areas of strategic growth: Digital Media. We provide products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our Digital Media segment is centered around Adobe Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud, which include Creative Cloud Express, Photoshop, Illustrator, Lightroom, Premiere Pro, Acrobat, 3 Table of Content s Adobe Sign and many more products, offering a variety of tools for creative professionals, communicators and other consumers. This is the core of what we have delivered to users for decades, and we have continually evolved and expanded our business model to provide our customers with a range of flexible solutions that allow them to reach their full creative potential anytime, anywhere, on any device and on projects of all types. Digital Experience. We provide an integrated platform and set of applications and services through Adobe Experience Cloud that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. The foundation of our offering is Adobe Experience Platform, which provides businesses and brands with an open and extensible system for customer experience management that transforms customer data into robust customer profiles that update in real time and uses insights driven by artificial intelligence ( AI ) to enable the delivery of personalized digital experiences across various channels in milliseconds. With the creative power of our Digital Media business and the data-based tools of our Digital Experience business, we are able to offer a comprehensive suite of offerings to our customers. Through these tools and services, we help our customers more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across channels and devices with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both of these areas, where our mission to change the world through digital experiences has never been more relevant, as people seek new ways to communicate and businesses continue to invest in digital transformation. In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers continue to invest in delivering digital experiences. SEGMENTS Our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media; Digital Experience; and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide Adobe s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities further described below, and our legacy products and solutions are contained within the third segment, Publishing and Advertising. MARKET OVERVIEW This overview provides an explanation of our markets and a discussion of strategic opportunities in fiscal 2022 and beyond for each of our segments. See the section titled Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report and Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Digital Media Opportunity In today s digital world, design and creativity have never been more relevant, providing a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. Everyone has a story to tell from creative professionals, to communicators, to consumers, to first-time creators and they need the tools, services and capabilities at their fingertips to tell those stories on an ever-increasing number of canvasses. In a creator economy that is continually expanding, creators are looking for tools to help them easily make and share unique and beautiful content without complexity. At the same time, creativity is becoming increasingly collaborative, more critical to every company s success and more complex. We believe Adobe is in a strong position to capitalize on these trends with innovation that will accelerate the creative process to empower individuals to create wherever inspiration strikes and enable more effective collaboration between creators and stakeholders. The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud, a subscription service that allows members to use our creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across desktop, web and mobile devices. We believe in creativity for all, and Creative Cloud addresses the needs of all content creators, from creative professionals, such as artists, designers, developers, students and administrators, to knowledge workers, marketers, educators, enthusiasts and communicators and to consumers. Our customers rely on our products for content creation, photo editing, design, video and animation production, 4 Table of Content s mobile app and gaming development and more. In this era of connected creativity, we envision Creative Cloud functioning as a creative system, keeping our users connected to everything and everyone they need to make a project successful. We believe we have significant opportunities to grow by expanding content-first, task-based creativity, advancing every creative category across desktop, web and mobile, expanding 3D and immersive content creation, enabling seamless collaboration across all stakeholders and inspiring and empowering the creative community through sharing and monetization. Adobe s Digital Media segment also includes our Adobe Document Cloud business, a unified, cloud-based document services platform, which integrates Adobe s pioneering PDF technology with our Acrobat and Adobe Sign applications to deliver fully digital document workflows. Digital documents have a mission-critical role in powering modern businesses with hundreds of millions of communicators worldwide interacting with documents every day. With this digital transformation, we have the opportunity to continue to accelerate document productivity with Adobe Document Cloud, modernizing how people view, share and engage with documents. In our Adobe Document Cloud business, Adobe Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption and a leadership position in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing. Trillions of PDF documents are created every year, which reflects the growing role PDF plays across practically every segment of the economy, and there are hundreds of millions of users that engage with PDF files on a daily basis, in industries such as legal, financial services and publishing, as well as a broader array of communicators and Acrobat Reader users, who can also use the expanded capabilities provided by our Acrobat applications and the document services platform found in Document Cloud. Strategy Our goal for our Digital Media business is to be the leading platform for creativity and digital document solutions, where we offer a range of products and services that allow individuals, teams, small and medium businesses, enterprises and government institutions, including both professionals and enthusiasts, to design and deliver content seamlessly. With content creation, consumption and monetization happening across all surfaces and media types, we aim to deliver new ways to unleash creativity and accelerate document productivity, and we believe this is an area of significant opportunity for growth through expansion of our customer base. We aim to achieve this by using data-driven customer engagement, driving product-led growth through innovation to make our creative applications more accessible and easier to learn and meeting customer needs holistically to increase the value of our products. We continue to redefine the creative process with Creative Cloud, so that our customers can connect with everything and everyone they need to create, collaborate and be inspired. We are empowering content-first, task-based creativity with our launch of Creative Cloud Express, a web and mobile application with a content- and template-first experience to enable a broad spectrum of users, including novice content creators, communicators and creative professionals, to create, edit and customize content quickly and easily, in December 2021. We aim to continue to advance every creative category across desktop, web and mobile. We have delivered our flagship applications, including Photoshop, Illustrator and Lightroom, on desktop and mobile devices to allow users the ability to work from anywhere on any device and to collaborate with stakeholders. We are building collaboration deeply into our applications and workflows to enable seamless collaboration across stakeholders. We are taking Creative Cloud to the web, beginning with a public beta version of Photoshop, which will allow Creative Cloud subscribers to make edits to and collaborate on their files directly in their browser. We are continuing to focus on democratizing 3D and immersive content creation with Adobe Aero and our Substance suite of products, as well as through integrating our Substance 3D capabilities into our other applications. We continue to introduce new features and solutions in our products, such as auto-masking and new and improved neural filters in Photoshop, auto-captioning in Premiere, adjustment layers and perspective grids in Adobe Fresco and additional motion features in Adobe XD. We are pursuing new ways to inspire, empower and connect the creative community, such as through our Create Change series, our creative residency program and supporting live, interactive tutorials with creators on Behance. We also offer a range of other creative tools and services, including hobbyist products, such as Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements; libraries of creative assets, such as Adobe Stock and Adobe Fonts; mobile-first apps, such as Photoshop Camera; and Creative Cloud Libraries, a central place for users to store their assets. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under Principal Products and Services. On October 7, 2021, Adobe acquired Frame.io and began integrating its leading cloud-based video collaboration platform into Adobe Creative Cloud. With the acquisition of Frame.io, we aim to make the creative process even more collaborative, productive and efficient by enhancing Adobe Creative Cloud with Frame.io s cloud-native collaboration workflows, while continuing to enable third-party applications. As a first step in this direction, we are more deeply integrating and enhancing Frame.io s review and approval capabilities in Premiere Pro and After Effects to deliver a native collaborative platform for video editing. In our Creative Cloud business, we continue to employ a pricing strategy, as appropriate, to move our customers to better-value offerings as well as attract past customers and potential users to try out our products and ultimately subscribe. As part of our strategy, we use a data-driven operating model and our Digital Experience solutions offered through Adobe 5 Table of Content s Experience Cloud to drive and optimize customer awareness, engagement and licensing of our creative products and services at every stop of the customer journey through our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is the central destination where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. Our customers have the flexibility to subscribe to over twenty of our Creative Cloud products through a single subscription or, for many of our applications, through various collections of our individual subscriptions to point products. To better serve our current users and potential users, we offer free and premium levels for certain applications, such as Creative Cloud Express, and targeted packages and suites, such as our Photography Plan and Substance 3D Collection. We use our data-driven operating model to optimize conversion of our users of free apps and trials to paid subscribers. Our collaboration tools and services help us to further expand our universe of business customers beyond creative professionals to other stakeholders who use our products for review and approval purposes, copywriting or leveraging templates for social media marketing. We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with existing users, attract new customers and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. In our Adobe Document Cloud business, we expect to drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by continuing to deliver the best PDF experience on and across every platform, improve Acrobat web s functionality and single-click ease of use, expand the number of task-based actions in Acrobat, integrate Adobe Sign into Acrobat across all surfaces, drive innovation with Adobe Sensei (machine-learning/AI) to make both new and legacy documents more intelligent and responsive, unlock business workflows through PDF and Adobe Sign APIs, and leverage diversified go-to-market motions to reach all segments. With over 50 million searches for PDF-related actions per month, we intend to harness that demand and attract new users to our Document Cloud services through Acrobat web, which allows anyone to quickly access tools to create, edit, convert, sign and compress PDFs through their web browser. As with our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model to market our Document Cloud solutions and optimize our subscription-based pricing for individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world. We aim to increase our reach in our key markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets. We will continue to engage in strategic partnerships to help drive the enterprise business, including our partnerships with Microsoft, Workday, ServiceNow and Notarize. As our Document Cloud customers increasingly expect business processes to be seamless across devices and the web, we are expanding our Document Cloud capabilities to meet this need. Acrobat Reader is available on mobile devices, with many of its standard features available on the go, and features Liquid Mode to automatically reformat PDFs for quick navigation and easier consumption on smaller screens. Acrobat is also available on the web, delivering quick results for common PDF actions with a single click. Adobe Scan powers mobile devices with scanning capabilities, transforming paper documents into full-featured PDFs. Adobe Sign also provides a green alternative to costly, paper-based solutions and offers a modern, convenient solution for customers to digitally manage their documents, automate processes and contract workflows. We believe that by growing the awareness of electronic signatures in the broader contract delivery and signing market, utilizing Adobe Sensei to enhance customer experiences through machine learning and AI and continuing to add new capabilities to our Acrobat, Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign offerings, we can help our customers continue to migrate away from paper-based processes and adopt our solutions to modernize and digitize document experiences, growing our revenue with this business in the process. Digital Experience Opportunity Digital transformation is a macro trend that affects every business, government and educational institution today every business is a digital business. Consumers today buy experiences, not just products, and they demand personalized digital experiences that are relevant, engaging, seamless and secure across an ever-expanding range of channels and devices. Business customers increasingly have the same expectations, which drives business-to-business ( B2B ) companies to deliver business-to-consumer ( B2C ) experiences with a business-to-everyone ( B2E ) strategy. Delivering the best, personalized experience to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content across multiple channels in real time and at scale. In turn, executives, including those at the world s leading brands, are increasingly seeking solutions that enable real-time personalization at scale. Marketing and IT teams are looking for a return on investment to demonstrate the business impact of their transformation initiatives. Adobe Experience Cloud is powering digital businesses by providing exceptional experiences to their customers via a comprehensive suite of solutions. We continue to believe that addressing the challenges of customer experience management is 6 Table of Content s a large and growing opportunity and we are in position to help businesses and enterprises invest in solutions that aid their goals to transform how they engage with their customers and constituents digitally. Strategy Our goal is to be the leading provider of cloud-based solutions for delivering digital experiences and enabling digital transformation. The Adobe Experience Cloud applications and services are designed to manage customer journeys, enable personalized experiences at scale and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry. The Adobe Experience Platform further strengthens our differentiation and competitive advantage offering a way to connect our comprehensive set of solutions. Adobe Experience Cloud delivers solutions for our customers across the following strategic growth pillars: Data insights and audiences . Our solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Experience Platform, Customer Journey Analytics, Adobe Audience Manager and our Real-time Customer Data Platform, deliver robust customer profiles and AI-powered analytics across the customer journey to assist our customers in providing timely, relevant experiences across platforms. Content and commerce . Our solutions help customers manage, deliver and optimize content delivery, through Adobe Experience Manager and to enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses, with Adobe Commerce. Customer journeys . Our solutions help businesses manage, test, target, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases, including through Marketo Engage, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Journey Optimizer. Marketing workflow . We offer Adobe Workfront, a work management platform directed toward marketers to orchestrate campaign workflows. We also believe the AI and machine learning framework enabled by our strategy with Adobe Sensei enhances the delivery of digital experiences. Adobe Experience Cloud offers domain-specific AI services powered by Adobe Sensei that work with Adobe Experience Platform to augment existing Experience Cloud product offerings. These AI services help provide domain-specific intelligence in areas such as attribution and automated insights, customer journey management, lead management, sentiment analysis, one-click personalization, enhanced anomaly detection and more. By building on existing features and these AI-powered services, we believe Adobe Sensei will increase the value we provide our customers and create a competitive differentiation in the market. Adobe Experience Cloud also offers an open platform and ecosystem through the Adobe Experience Platform, AI services and developer services through Adobe I/O. Adobe Experience Platform provides the underlying infrastructure to make customer experience management possible by standardizing data into an easily sharable format consumable by Adobe Sensei and provides an open and extensible cloud infrastructure for Adobe Experience Cloud that allows data to flow freely within the Adobe Experience Platform and between Adobe Experience Cloud solutions and third-party software. This open architecture offers scalability with a wide variety of supporting products and services, empowers users to quickly develop innovative applications to interact with consumers and enables a broad industry ecosystem. To drive growth of Adobe Experience Cloud, we are focused on delivering the best customer experience management solutions for B2E, enterprise and mid-market through our applications, services and platform. We also intend to focus on customer engagement, growth within existing customer accounts and product differentiation. We are continuing to add new services, such as Adobe Developer App Builder and Adobe Experience Cloud for Healthcare, and add new functionality and features to our current offerings, such as a new B2B edition of Adobe Real-Time Customer Data Platform, Adobe Experience Manager Screens and new personalization features in Adobe Experience Cloud. To give our customers increased flexibility, better functionality and expand our reach, we are also delivering new and improved integrations, such as increased synergy between our Experience Cloud products and Creative Cloud and Adobe Sign. Within our established base of customers, we intend to pursue growth through continued expansion of mid-market and enterprise customer accounts by encouraging such customers to take advantage of our suite of end-to-end products. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, SIs and ISVs that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. Strategic partnerships, such as the ones we have formed with Microsoft, IBM, Fluent Commerce and Dentsu, continue to increase our market reach. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market and believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Experience segment in fiscal 2022 and beyond. 7 Table of Content s Publishing and Advertising Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are well positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for this industry. Adobe Advertising Cloud delivers an end-to-end, demand-side platform for managing advertising across digital formats and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens. We generate revenue in our legacy Publishing products and services by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices, and we generally generate revenue in Advertising through usage-based offerings. COMPETITION Overview Adobe participates in a highly competitive environment globally, where our competitors vary by industry segment and range from large mult