ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 13 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 ITEM 2. Properties 35 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 36 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II 37 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 38 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 47 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 ITEM 9B. Other Information 86 ITEM 9C. Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 PART III 87 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 87 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 87 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 87 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 87 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 87 PART IV 88 ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 88 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 93 SIGNATURES . 94 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, anticipates, or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: possible impact of future accounting rules on AMD s consolidated financial statements; demand for AMD s products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future; that AMD s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Credit Agreement, and our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund AMD s operations including capital expenditures and purchase commitments over the next 12 months; AMD s ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD s expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the potential liability related to AMD s current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; anticipated ongoing and increased costs related to enhancing and implementing information security controls; all unbilled accounts receivables are expected to be billed and collected within 12 months; revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied which will be recognized over the next 12 months; a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMD s revenue in the future; and the acquisition of Xilinx, Inc. is currently expected to close in the first quarter of 2022. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors and the Financial Condition section set forth in Part II, Item 7-Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD A, and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to AMD, we, us, management, our or the Company mean Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a global semiconductor company primarily offering: x86 microprocessors (CPUs), as standalone devices or as incorporated into accelerated processing units (APUs), chipsets, discrete and integrated graphics processing units (GPUs), data center and professional GPUs, and development services; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom system-on-chip (SoC) products, development services and technology for game consoles. From time to time, we may also sell or license portions of our intellectual property (IP) portfolio. 1 Additional Information AMD was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on May 1, 1969 and became a publicly held company in 1972. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol AMD . Our mailing address and executive offices are located at 2485 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 749-4000. For financial information about geographic areas and for segment information with respect to revenues and operating results, refer to the information set forth in Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. References in this report to 2021, 2020 and 2019 refer to the fiscal year unless explicitly stated otherwise. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD CDNA, AMD Instinct, AMD RDNA, Athlon, EPYC, FirePro, FreeSync, Geode, Infinity Fabric, Radeon, Radeon Instinct, Ryzen, Threadripper, and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft, Windows, DirectX and Xbox One are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. PCIe is a registered trademark of PCI-SIG Corporation. Chromebook and Stadia are trademarks of Google Inc. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries. PlayStation is a registered trademark or trademark of Sony Interactive Entertainment, Inc. Arm is a registered trademark of ARM Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the United States and/or elsewhere. Vulkan and the Vulkan logo are registered trademarks of Khronos Group Inc. Apple and Mac Pro are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the United States and/or other countries. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. Website Access to Our SEC Filings and Corporate Governance Documents On the Investor Relations pages of our website, http://ir.amd.com, we post links to our filings with the SEC, our Principles of Corporate Governance, our Code of Ethics for our executive officers, all other senior finance executives and certain representatives from legal and internal audit, our Worldwide Standards of Business Conduct, which applies to our Board of Directors and all of our employees, and the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors. Our filings with the SEC are posted as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. You can also obtain copies of these documents by writing to us at: Corporate Secretary, AMD, 7171 Southwest Parkway, M/S B100.T, Austin, Texas 78735, or emailing us at: Corporate.Secretary@amd.com. All of these documents and filings are available free of charge. If we make substantive amendments to our Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar functions, we intend to disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report. 2 Pending Acquisition On October 26, 2020, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Thrones Merger Sub, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (Merger Sub), and Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx), whereby Merger Sub will merge with and into Xilinx (the Merger), with Xilinx surviving such Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. Under the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time), each share of common stock of Xilinx (Xilinx Common Stock) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than treasury shares and any shares of Xilinx Common Stock held directly by us or Merger Sub) will be converted into the right to receive 1.7234 fully paid and non-assessable shares of our common stock and, if applicable, cash in lieu of fractional shares, subject to any applicable withholding. As of the signing of the Merger Agreement, the transaction was valued at $35 billion. The actual valuation of the transaction could differ significantly from the estimated amount due to movements in the price of our common stock, the number of shares of Xilinx common stock outstanding on the closing date of the Merger and other factors. The closing of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including regulatory approval. On April 7, 2021, our stockholders voted to approve all the proposals relating to the Merger at a special meeting of stockholders. Xilinx stockholders also voted to approve their respective proposals relating to the Merger at a Xilinx special meeting held on the same day. The Merger is currently expected to close in the first quarter of 2022. Our Industry We are a global semiconductor company. Semiconductors are components used in a variety of electronic products and systems. An integrated circuit (IC) is a semiconductor device that consists of many interconnected transistors on a single chip. Since the invention of the transistor in 1948, improvements in IC process and design technologies have led to the development of smaller, more complex and more reliable ICs at a lower cost-per-function. Our Strategy AMD is focused on high performance computing technology, software and product leadership. Our strategy is to create and deliver the world s leading high-performance CPUs and GPUs, and to integrate these CPUs and GPUs with hardware and software to build differentiated solutions. We invest in high-performance CPUs for client systems, as well as for high performance computing solutions, cloud infrastructure and the private and public cloud environment. We also invest in high-performance GPUs and software for markets such as gaming, compute, artificial intelligence, cloud gaming, and virtual and augmented reality. We combine our high-performance CPUs and GPUs to deliver solutions that are differentiated at the chip level, such as our semi-custom SoCs and APUs, and at the solution level, such as PC and server platforms. Computing and Graphics Markets Our Computing and Graphics products address the need for computational and visual data processing in computing devices that include personal computers, laptops / notebooks, and workstations. In the PC market, we design CPUs, APUs and GPUs for consumer and commercial desktops, notebooks and workstations. Our CPUs and APUs are designed to bring performance, efficiency and modern security features to gamers, creators, consumers and commercial enterprises. Our GPUs address the need for improved visual and data processing in various computing devices. Many consumers use PCs as entertainment platforms, in addition to traditional productivity and communications uses, and therefore value a richer, more visually compelling and immersive experience. As a result, visual realism and graphical display capabilities are key product differentiation elements among computing devices. This has led to the increased creation and use of processing-intensive multimedia content for playing games, capturing media, viewing online videos, editing photos and managing digital content on computing devices. In turn, these trends have contributed to higher consumer demand for performance graphics solutions and to manufacturers designing computing devices with these capabilities. Our CPUs and APUs bring performance, efficiency and modern security features to gamers, creators, consumers and enterprises. Industries that utilize computer assisted design (CAD), that develop content for media and entertainment markets and that generate professional visualizations and renderings can benefit greatly from graphics solutions optimized for the professional graphics market. 3 In addition to traditional graphics markets, there is a large and growing demand for accelerated computing, powered by graphics processors in markets such as high performance computing (HPC), artificial intelligence, and Cloud Visualization (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure Cloud Gaming). Another area of the market for graphics compute is blockchain technology, which is a decentralized digital ledger used to securely store, transmit and process sensitive and valuable data. Blockchain applications are typically performed using specially designed application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or a general-purpose CPU or GPU. Our Computing Products Our microprocessors are incorporated into computing platforms, which are a collection of technologies that are designed to work together to provide a more complete computing solution. We believe that integrated, balanced computing platforms consisting of microprocessors, chipsets (either as discrete devices or integrated into an SoC) and GPUs (either as discrete GPUs or integrated into an APU or SoC) that work together at the system level bring end users improved system stability, increased performance and enhanced power efficiency. In addition, we believe our customers also benefit from an all-AMD platform (consisting of an APU or CPU, a discrete GPU, and a chipset when needed), as we are able to optimize interoperability, provide our customers a single point of contact for the key platform components and enable them to bring the platforms to market quickly in a variety of PC and server system form factors. We currently base our microprocessors and chipsets on the x86 instruction set architecture and the AMD Infinity Fabric , which connects an on-chip memory controller and input/output (I/O) channels directly to one or more microprocessor cores. We typically integrate two or more processor cores onto a single die, and each core has its own dedicated cache, which is memory that is located on the semiconductor die, permitting quick access to frequently used data and instructions. Some of our microprocessors have additional levels of cache such as L2, or second-level cache, and L3, or third-level cache, to enable fast data access and high-performance. We focus on continually improving the energy efficiency of our products through our design principles and innovations in power management technology. To that end, we offer CPUs, GPUs, APUs, SoCs and chipsets with multiple low power states that are designed to utilize lower clock speeds and voltages to reduce processor power consumption during active and idle times. The use of intelligent, dynamic power management is designed to create lower energy use by allowing compute applications to be completed quickly and efficiently, enabling a return to the ultra-low power idle state. We also continually strive to improve security features in our products to help our customers protect their sensitive information. To that end, we offer integrated on-chip security features and other security features our customers can choose to enable. Desktop Microprocessors . Our microprocessors for desktop platforms currently include the AMD Ryzen series processors and AMD Athlon processors. Our AMD Ryzen 5000 Series desktop processor family powered by our Zen 3 core architecture has up to 16 cores and delivers across the board leadership performance for gamers and content creators. Notebook Microprocessors . Our mobile APUs, including AMD Ryzen and AMD Athlon mobile processors for the consumer and commercial markets, combine both high levels of performance and efficiency for notebook PC platforms. In January 2021, we launched our AMD Ryzen 5000 Series Mobile Processors, which are powered with our Zen 3 core architecture and are designed for gamers, creators and professionals. Commercial Microprocessors . We offer enterprise-class desktop and notebook PC solutions sold as AMD PRO Mobile and AMD PRO desktop processors with Radeon graphics for the commercial market. AMD Ryzen PRO, AMD Threadripper PRO and AMD Athlon PRO series solutions are designed to provide enterprise customers with the performance, security capabilities and business features such as enhanced security and manageability, platform longevity and extended image stability. We launched the AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series Mobile Processors powered with our Zen 3 core architecture for business laptops in March 2021. Chipsets . We offer a full suite of chipset products to support our AMD Ryzen and Threadripper platforms, including the X570 chipset which supports PCIe 4.0 (fourth generation Peripheral Component Interconnect Express motherboard interface) designed for enthusiast desktop platforms. We offer the B550 chipset and the A520 chipset for socket AM4 for 3rd Gen AMD Ryzen desktop processors and 5000 processors. In addition, we continue to offer the B450 and A320 chipsets that are combined with AMD Ryzen processors for the AM4 desktop platform for the performance and affordable mainstream platforms segments. In the High-End Desktop (HEDT) and Workstation segments, we offer the TRX40 and the WRX80 chipsets, respectively, to support the 3rd Gen Ryzen Threadripper and Threadripper PRO platforms offering high speed I/O and platform bandwidth. 4 Our Graphics Products Graphics processing is a fundamental component across many of our products and can be found in an APU, GPU, SoC or a combination of a discrete GPU with one of the other foregoing products working in tandem. Our customers generally use our graphics solutions to enable or increase the speed of rendering images, to help improve image resolution and color definition, and increasingly to process massive data sets for cloud and data center applications. We develop our graphics products for use in various computing devices and entertainment platforms, including desktop PCs, notebook PCs, All-in-Ones (AIOs), professional workstations, and the data center. With each of our graphics products, we have available drivers and supporting software packages that enable the effective use of these products under a variety of operating systems and applications. We have developed RDNA 2, a high performing and power efficient graphics architecture, which is the foundation for next-generation PC gaming graphics, the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series S and X consoles. Additionally, our RDNA 2 architecture supports advanced graphics features such as ray tracing, Infinity Cache and variable rate shading. Our hardware and software components are used to implement ray tracing technology to simulate the paths of light rays moving through a movie or game scene, resulting in photorealistic 3D images. Our APUs deliver visual processing functionality for value and mainstream PCs by integrating a CPU and a GPU on a single chip, while discrete GPUs (which are also known as dGPUs) offer high-performance graphics processing across all platforms. AMD Accelerated Parallel Processing or General Purpose GPU (GPGPU) refers to a set of advanced hardware and software technologies that enable discrete AMD GPUs, working in concert with the CPU, to accelerate computational tasks beyond traditional CPU processing by utilizing the vast number of GPU cores while working with the CPU to process information cooperatively. In addition, computing devices with heterogeneous computing features can run computationally-intensive tasks more efficiently, which we believe provides a superior application experience to the end user. Moreover, heterogeneous computing allows for the elevation of the GPU to the same level as the CPU for memory access, queuing, and execution. Discrete Desktop and Notebook Graphics . Our AMD Radeon series discrete GPU processors for desktop and notebook PCs support current generation application program interfaces (APIs) like DirectX 12 Ultimate and Vulkan , support new displays using AMD FreeSync , AMD FreeSync Premium, and AMD FreeSync Premium Pro technologies, and are designed to support virtual reality (VR) in PC platforms. Our AMD Radeon Software expands remote gaming functionality and enables new features and customization capabilities. In addition, we also offer tools for game developers such as our AMD FidelityFX open-source image quality software toolkit that helps deliver improved visual quality with minimal performance overhead. Our latest FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) uses upscaling technologies to help boost frame rates in games. We offer AMD Radeon RX 6000M and RX 6000S series mobile graphics for high-performance gaming notebooks. Our AMD Advantage Design Framework, a collaboration with our global PC partners, delivers high-performance gaming notebooks by combining AMD Radeon RX series mobile graphics, AMD Software and AMD Ryzen series mobile processors with AMD smart technologies to deliver best-in-class gaming experiences. We continued the roll-out of the AMD RDNA 2 architecture in the desktop market that began in 2020 with additional Radeon RX 6000 series graphics card launches. In July 2021, we announced the AMD Radeon RX 6600 XT graphics card, designed to deliver high-framerate, high-fidelity and highly responsive 1080p gaming experience. Professional Graphics . Our AMD Radeon PRO family of professional graphics products includes multi-view graphics cards and GPUs designed for integration in mobile and desktop workstations. AMD Radeon PRO graphics cards are designed for demanding use cases such as design and manufacturing for CAD, and media and entertainment for broadcast and animation pipelines. AMD Radeon PRO supports end users utilizing GPU accelerated visualization for construction, architecture and mechanical design through gaming and visualization engines on high resolution displays; Radeon VR Creator cards are also capable of supporting this functionality with VR and augmented reality (AR). Software drivers for AMD Radeon PRO cards are designed to deliver high stability and performance across a wide variety of software packages including those requiring professional software vendor certifications. Our AMD Radeon PRO W6000 series workstation graphics include AMD RDNA 2 architecture and AMD Infinity Cache and are designed to reduce latency and power consumption and to optimize design workloads, complex design and engineering simulations along with image and video editing applications. In July 2021, we announced the AMD Radeon RX 6600 XT graphics card, designed to deliver high-framerate, high-fidelity and highly responsive 1080p gaming experience. In August 2021, we also introduced the Radeon PRO W6000X series GPUs for the Mac Pro to power a variety of professional applications and workloads, including 3D rendering, 8K video composition and color correction. 5 Data Center Graphics . Our AMD Instinct family of GPU products are specifically designed to address the growing demand for compute-accelerated data center workloads, including deep learning training and a range of HPC applications where the compute capabilities of GPUs provide additional performance. Combined with our AMD ROCm open software platform, our customers can deliver differentiated acceleration platforms to address the next-generation of computing challenges while minimizing power and space needs in the data center. In November, 2021, we introduced the AMD Instinct MI200 series accelerators based on the 2nd Gen AMD CDNA architecture, which is optimized for HPC and AI/ML (Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning) workloads. The MI200 series includes the MI250 Open Accelerator Module (OAM) form factor for purpose-built HPC/AI platforms and the MI210 PCIe form factor for mainstream server platforms. We also introduced the AMD Infinity Hub which provides end users with a growing catalog of containerized HPC applications and ML frameworks that are ported and optimized for AMD Instinct accelerators and AMD ROCm. Cloud Gaming and VDI . Our visual cloud GPU offerings include products in the Radeon Instinct and Radeon PRO V families. Our visual cloud data center GPUs include a range of solutions tailored towards workloads requiring remote visualization, such as Desktop-as-a-Service, Workstation-as-a-Service and Cloud Gaming. These GPUs are designed to cover the full range of graphical application acceleration, from light desktop to workstation tasks, multi-GPU high end rendering, and cloud gaming activities. Our software solutions carry certification for a number of professional software vendor applications as well as being optimized for modern gaming titles. In November 2021, AMD introduced the Radeon PRO V620, a data center GPU using the RDNA 2 architecture and incorporating new capabilities including ray tracing acceleration and Infinity Cache. The Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Markets Our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom products address the need for computational and visual data processing. We serve these markets with our CPU, GPU, APU, and customized SoC products. Server . A server is a computer system that performs services for connected customers as part of a client-server architecture. Many servers are designed to run an application or applications often for extended periods of time with minimal human intervention. Examples of servers include cloud, web, e-mail, print and on-premise servers. These servers can run a variety of applications, including business intelligence, enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management and advanced scientific or engineering models to solve advanced computational problems in disciplines ranging from financial modeling to weather forecasting to oil and gas exploration. Servers are also used in cloud computing, which is a computing model where data, applications and services are delivered over the internet or an intranet which can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal effort. Today s data centers require new technologies and configuration models to meet the demand driven by the growing amount of data that needs to be stored, accessed, analyzed and managed. Servers must be efficient, scalable and adaptable to meet the compute characteristics of new and changing workloads. We leverage our technology to address the computational and visual data processing needs in the data center market where we design CPUs, GPUs, and software for HPC, cloud gaming, and cloud and enterprise customers. Embedded . Embedded products address computing needs in enterprise-class telecommunications, networking, security, storage systems and thin clients, which are computers that serve as an access device on a network. Typically, AMD embedded products are used in applications that require high to moderate levels of performance, where key features may include relatively low power, small form factors, and 24x7 operations. High-performance graphics are important in some embedded systems. Support for Linux , Windows and other operating systems as well as for increasingly sophisticated applications are also critical for some customers. Other requirements may include meeting rigid specifications for industrial temperatures, shock, vibration and reliability. The embedded market has moved from developing proprietary, custom designs to leveraging industry-standard instruction set architectures and processors as a way to help reduce costs and speed time to market. Semi-Custom . We leverage our core IP, including our graphics and processing technologies to develop semi-custom solutions. In this market, semiconductor suppliers work alongside system designers and manufacturers to enhance the performance and overall user experience for semi-custom customers. We have used this collaborative co-development approach with many of today s leading game console and handheld PC gaming manufacturers and can also address customer needs in many other markets. We leverage our existing IP to create a variety of products tailored to a specific customer s needs, ranging from complex fully-customized SoCs to more modest adaptations and integrations of existing CPU, APU or GPU products. 6 Our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Products Server Processors . Our microprocessors for server platforms currently include the AMD EPYC Series processors. We launched our 3rd Gen AMD EPYC processors, the AMD EPYC 7003 Series CPUs, in March 2021. Our new AMD EPYC 7003 Series processors are powered by our Zen 3 core architecture and are designed to support HPC, cloud and enterprise workloads. Embedded Processors . Our products for embedded platforms include AMD Embedded EPYC CPUs, AMD Embedded Ryzen V-Series APUs, CPUs and SoCs, AMD Embedded Ryzen R-Series APUs, CPUs an