ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 31 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 32 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 32 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 33 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 33 PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 34 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 35 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 36 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 47 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 49 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 92 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 92 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 93 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 93 PART III. ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 94 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 94 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 94 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 94 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 94 PART IV. ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 95 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 101 SIGNATURES 102 1 Table of Contents PART I The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and particularly in Item 1: Business, Item 1A: Risk Factors, Item 3: Legal Proceedings and Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, expect, estimate, seek, plan, believe, could, intend, will, and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. These forward-looking statements may include our projected financial results or expectations regarding acquisitions, developments in technology, products and seasonality of our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on management s judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, those disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our, and us mean Broadcom Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We operate on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the Sunday closest to October 31. The fiscal year ended November 3, 2024 was a 53-week year. We refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they end. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a global technology leader that designs, develops and supplies a broad range of semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions. Our over 60-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from AT T/Bell Labs, Lucent and Hewlett-Packard Company, and evolved with LSI Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Brocade Communications Systems LLC, CA, Inc., Symantec Enterprise Security, and VMware, Inc. ( VMware ). Over the years, we have assembled a large team of semiconductor and software design engineers around the world. We maintain design, product and software development engineering resources at locations in the U.S., Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We combine global scale, engineering depth, broad product portfolio diversity, superior execution and operational focus to deliver category-leading semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions. We develop semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor ( CMOS ) based devices and analog III-V based products. We offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, including artificial intelligence ( AI ) networking and connectivity, home connectivity, set-top boxes ( STB ), broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high-performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing semiconductor products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. Our infrastructure software solutions help enterprises simplify their information technology ( IT ) environments so they can increase business velocity and flexibility, and enable customers to plan, develop, deliver, automate, manage, and secure applications across mainframe, distributed, edge, mobile, and private and hybrid cloud platforms. Many of the largest companies in the world, including most of the Fortune 500, and many government agencies rely on our software solutions to help manage and secure their on-premises and hybrid cloud environments, private cloud infrastructure and AI data centers. Our portfolio of industry-leading infrastructure and security software is designed to modernize, optimize, and secure the most complex private and hybrid cloud environments, enabling scalability, agility, automation, insights, resiliency and security, making it easy for customers to run their mission-critical workloads. We also offer mission-critical fibre channel storage area networking ( FC SAN ) products and related software in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. On November 22, 2023, we acquired VMware in a cash-and-stock transaction (the VMware Merger ), in which VMware stockholders received, in aggregate, approximately $30.8 billion in cash and 544 million shares of Broadcom common stock (on a split adjusted basis) with a fair value of $53.4 billion. We funded the cash portion of the VMware Merger consideration with net proceeds from the issuance of $30.4 billion in term loans under a credit agreement that we entered into on August 15, 2023, as well as cash on hand. Following the VMware Merger, we sold VMware s end-user computing business to KKR Co. Inc. for cash consideration of $3.5 billion , after working capital adjustments. With the VMware Merger, we have bolstered our infrastructure software solutions and are able to offer our customers a greater capacity to address complex IT infrastructure issues. Business Strategy Our strategy is focused on technology leadership and category-leading semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions delivering a comprehensive suite of innovative infrastructure technology products to the world s leading business and government customers. We seek to achieve this through strategic acquisitions of businesses and technologies, as well as extensive internal research and development, to ensure our products retain their technology market leadership. This strategy results in a robust business model designed to drive diversified and sustainable operating and financial results. Products and Markets Semiconductor Solutions Semiconductors are made by imprinting a network of electronic components onto a semiconductor wafer. These devices are designed to perform various functions such as processing, amplifying and selectively filtering electronic signals, controlling electronic system functions and processing, and transmitting and storing data. Our digital and mixed signal products are based on silicon wafers with CMOS transistors offering fast switching speeds and low power consumption, which are both critical design factors for the markets we serve. We also offer analog products, which are based on III-V semiconductor materials that have higher electrical conductivity than silicon, and thus tend to have better performance characteristics in radio frequency ( RF ), and optoelectronic applications. III-V refers to elements from the 3rd and 5th groups in the periodic table of chemical elements. Examples of these materials used in our products are gallium arsenide ( GaAs ) and indium phosphide ( InP ). 3 Table of Contents Our product portfolio ranges from discrete devices to complex sub-systems that include multiple device types and may also incorporate firmware for interfacing between analog and digital systems. In some cases, our products include mechanical hardware that interfaces with optoelectronic or capacitive sensors. We focus on markets that require high quality, leading technology and integrated performance characteristics of our products. The table below presents our key semiconductor product families and their major end markets and applications. Major End Markets Major Applications Key Product Offerings Networking Data Center, Service Provider, and Enterprise Networking Ethernet switching and routing silicon Custom silicon solutions Optical and copper PHYs Fiber optic transmitter and receiver components Wireless Mobile Device Connectivity RF front end modules and filters Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS/GNSS SoCs Custom touch controllers Inductive charging ASICs Storage Servers and Storage Systems SAS and RAID controllers and adapters PCIe switches Fibre channel host bus adapters Ethernet NIC HDD and SSD Read channel based SoCs; Custom flash controllers Preamplifiers Broadband STB and Broadband Access STB SoCs DSL/PON gateways DOCSIS cable modem and networking infrastructure DSLAM/PON optical line termination Wi-Fi access point SoCs Industrial Factory Automation, Renewable Energy and Automotive Electronics Optocouplers Industrial fiber optics Industrial and medical sensors Motion control encoders and subsystems Light emitting diodes Ethernet PHYs, switch ICs and camera microcontrollers Data Center, Service Provider, and Enterprise Networking Solutions. We provide semiconductor solutions for managing the movement of data in data center, service provider, and enterprise networking applications. Our products offer an enhanced, open, standards-based Ethernet network interface card ( NIC ) and switching solution to resolve connectivity bottlenecks in data centers, particularly in AI data centers where compute bandwidth and cluster sizes grow rapidly. Ethernet Switching Routing: Ethernet is a ubiquitous interconnection technology that enables high-performance and cost-effective networking infrastructure. We offer a broad set of Ethernet switching and routing products that are optimized for AI data center, service provider and enterprise networks. In the data center market, our high capacity, low latency, switching silicon supports advanced protocols around virtualization and multi-pathing. Our Ethernet switching fabric technologies provide the ability to build highly scalable flat networks supporting tens of thousands of servers. Our service provider switch portfolio enables carrier networks to support prioritized delivery of data traffic in the wireless backhaul, access, aggregation and core of their networks. For enterprise networks, we offer product families with secure, encrypted switching capabilities and support lower power modes that comply with industry standards around energy efficient Ethernet. Custom Silicon Solutions: We provide advanced technology and intellectual property ( IP ) platforms for customers to design and develop application specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ) targeting AI and high-performance computing, networking and storage applications. Our custom silicon provides the platform to integrate embedded logic, memory, serializer/deserializer ( SerDes ) technology, IP cores and processor cores. ASICs are custom products built to individual customers specifications. Physical Layer Devices: These devices, also referred to as PHYs, are transceivers that enable the reception and transmission of Ethernet data packets over a physical medium such as copper wire or optical fibers. Our high 4 Table of Contents performance Ethernet transceivers are built upon a proprietary digital signal processing communication architecture optimized for high-speed network connections and support the latest standards and advanced features, such as energy efficient Ethernet, data encryption and time synchronization. We also offer a range of automotive Ethernet products, including PHYs, switches and camera microcontrollers, to meet growing consumer demand for in-vehicle connectivity and smart vision. Fiber Optic Components: We supply a wide array of optical components to the Ethernet networking, storage, and access, metro- and long-haul telecommunication markets. Our optical components enable the high speed reception and transmission of data through optical fibers. Mobile Device Connectivity Solutions. We provide a broad variety of RF semiconductor devices, wireless connectivity solutions, custom touch controllers and inductive charging solutions for the wireless market. RF Semiconductor Devices: Our RF semiconductor devices selectively filter, as well as amplify and route, RF signals. Filters enable modern wireless communication systems to support a large number of subscribers simultaneously by ensuring that the multiple transmissions and receptions of voice and data streams do not interfere with each other. We were among the first to deliver commercial film bulk acoustic resonator ( FBAR ) filters that offer technological advantages over competing filter technologies, to allow mobile handsets to function more efficiently in today's congested RF spectrum. FBAR technology has a significant market share within the cellular handset market. Our RF products include multi-chip module front-end modules that integrate transmit/receive switching and filtering functions for multiple frequency bands, filter modules and discrete filters, all using our proprietary FBAR technology. Our expertise in FBAR technology, amplifier design, and module integration enables us to offer industry-leading performance in cellular RF transceiver applications. Connectivity Solutions: Our connectivity solutions include discrete and integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth solutions, and global positioning system/global navigation satellite system ( GPS/GNSS ) receivers, designed for use in mobile devices including smartphones, tablets and wearable products. Wi-Fi allows devices on a local area network to communicate wirelessly, adding the convenience of mobility to the utility of high-speed data networks. We offer a family of high performance, low power Wi-Fi chipsets. Bluetooth is a low power technology that enables direct connectivity between devices. We offer Bluetooth silicon and software solutions that enable manufacturers to easily and cost-effectively add Bluetooth functionality. These solutions include combination chips that offer integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth functionality, which provides significant performance advantages over discrete solutions. We also offer a family of GPS, assisted-GPS and GNSS semiconductor products, software and data services. These products are part of a broader location platform that leverages a broad range of communications technologies, including Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS, to provide more accurate location and navigation capabilities. Custom Touch Controllers: Our touch controllers process signals from touch screens in mobile handsets and tablets. Inductive Charging ASICs: Our custom inductive charging ASIC devices offer high efficiency and are highly integrated solutions for mobile and wearable devices. Servers and Storage System Solutions. We provide semiconductor solutions for enabling secure movement of digital data to and from host machines, such as servers, personal computers and storage systems, to the underlying storage devices, such as hard disk drives ( HDD ) and solid-state drives ( SSD ). SAS, RAID PCIe Products: We provide serial attached small computer system interface (SAS) and redundant array of independent disks (RAID) controller and adapter solutions to server and storage system original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). These solutions enable secure and high-speed data transmission between a host computer, such as a server, and storage peripheral devices, such as HDD, SSD and optical disk drives and disk and tape-based storage systems. Some of these solutions are delivered as stand-alone semiconductors, typically as a controller. Other solutions are delivered as circuit boards, known as adapter products, which incorporate our semiconductors onto a circuit board with other features. RAID technology is a critical part of our server storage connectivity solutions as it provides protection against the loss of critical data resulting from HDD failures. We also provide interconnect semiconductors that support the peripheral component interconnect express ( PCIe ) communication standards. PCIe is the primary interconnection mechanism inside computing systems today. Fibre Channel Products: We provide fibre channel host bus adapters, which connect host computers such as servers to FC SANs. Ethernet NIC Controllers: Our Ethernet NIC controllers are designed for high-performance virtualization, intelligent flow processing, secure data center connectivity, and machine learning. 5 Table of Contents HDD SSD Solutions: We provide read channel-based system-on-chip ( SoC ) and preamplifiers to HDD OEMs. These are the critical chips required to read, write and protect data. An HDD SoC is an integrated circuit ( IC ) that combines the functionality of a read channel, serial interface, memory and a hard disk controller in a small, high-performance, low-power and cost-effective package. Read channels convert analog signals that are generated by reading the stored data on the physical media into digital signals. In addition, we sell preamplifiers, which are complex, high speed, mixed signal devices that enable writing and reading data to and from the HDD heads. The preamplifier interfaces with the SoC to provide the electronics data path in a HDD. We also provide custom flash controllers to SSD OEMs. An SSD stores data in flash memory instead of on a hard disk, providing high speed access to the data. Flash controllers manage the underlying flash memory in SSDs, performing critical functions such as reading and writing data to and from the flash memory and performing error correction, wear leveling and bad block management. Broadband Solutions. We provide semiconductor solutions for enabling STBs and broadband access applications. Set-Top Box: We offer complete SoC platform solutions for cable, satellite, Internet Protocol television, over-the-top and terrestrial STBs. Our products enable global service providers to introduce new and enhanced technologies and services in STBs, including transcoding, digital video recording functionality, higher definition video processing, increased networking capabilities, and more tuners to enable faster channel change and more simultaneous recordings. We are also enabling service providers in deploying High Efficiency Video Coding ( HEVC ), a video compression format that is a successor to the H.264/MPEG-4 format. HEVC enables ultra-high definition ( Ultra HD ) services by effectively doubling the capacity of existing networks to deploy new or existing content. Our families of STB solutions support the complete range of resolutions, from standard definition to high definition to Ultra HD. Broadband Access: We offer complete SoC platform solutions for digital subscriber line ( DSL ), cable, passive optical networking ( PON ) and wireless local area network for both consumer premise equipment ( CPE ) and central office ( CO ) deployments. Our CPE devices are used in broadband modems, residential gateways and Wi-Fi access points and routers. Our CO devices, including DSL Access Multiplexer ( DSLAM ), cable modem termination systems and PON optical line termination medium access controllers, are empowering modern operator broadband infrastructure. Our products enable global service providers to continue deploying next generation broadband access technologies across multiple standards, including G.fast, Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications ( DOCSIS ), PON and Wi-Fi to provide more bandwidth and faster speeds to consumers. Factory Automation, Renewable Energy and Automotive Electronic Solutions. We provide a broad variety of products for the general industrial and automotive markets, including optocouplers, industrial fiber optics, industrial and medical sensors, motion encoders, light emitting diode devices, and Ethernet ICs. Our industrial products are used in a diverse set of applications, spanning industrial automation, power generation and distribution systems, medical systems and equipment, defense and aerospace, and vehicle subsystems including those used in electric vehicle powertrain, infotainment and advanced driver assistance systems. Infrastructure Software Our infrastructure software solutions offer customers greater choice and flexibility to build, run, manage, connect and protect applications and data at scale across data center and private and hybrid cloud environments. 6 Table of Contents The table below presents our software portfolios and their key offerings. Software Portfolio Portfolio Description Key Portfolio Offerings Private Cloud Cloud infrastructure that is ubiquitous, flexible, and integrated across on-premises, edge, public and partner clouds VMware Cloud Foundation VMware Cloud Foundation Edge VMware vSphere Foundation Private AI Live Recovery Telco Cloud Platform Tanzu Comprehensive solutions for application development operations and optimization Tanzu Platform Tanzu Data Solutions Tanzu CloudHealth Tanzu Labs VeloCloud Comprehensive software-defined network solutions that enable enterprise edge connectivity and performance over Internet, fixed wireless access and satellite while simplifying deployments and reducing costs SD-WAN and SASE VeloRAIN Fixed Wireless Access Application Networking and Security Comprehensive software-defined solutions featuring lateral security that protects VCF application traffic from malware and ransomware, and application load balancing with the only plug-and-play app delivery and security solution for VCF private cloud Lateral Security Firewall Advanced Threat Protection Advanced Load Balancing Mainframe Software DevOps, AIOps, Security, Workload Automation, Data Management, Foundational Software Solutions, and Beyond Code programs Operational Analytics Management Workload Automation Database Data Management Application Development Testing Identity Access Management Compliance Data Protection Security Insights Beyond Code programs Distributed Software Solutions that optimize the planning, development and delivery of business critical services ValueOps DevOps AIOps Enterprise Security Comprehensive cybersecurity and compliance solutions that secure against threats and compliance risks by protecting users and data on any app, device, or network Endpoint Security Network Security Information Security Application Security Identity Security FC SAN Management Solutions that transform current storage networks with autonomous SAN capabilities Fibre Channel Switch Payment Security Arcot payment authentication network powered by 3-D Secure Payment Security Suite Private Cloud Software Portfolio. Our private cloud infrastructure software delivers public cloud scale and agility with private cloud security, resilience and performance, and low overall total cost of ownership. Our VMware software supports customers digital innovation with faster infrastructure modernization, a unified cloud experience and better platform security and cyber resiliency. The full portfolio is available directly from Broadcom, resellers and distributors, hyperscale cloud providers, value-added OEMs and VMware cloud service provider partners. VMware Cloud Foundation ( VCF ) provides license portability, which enables customers to purchase subscriptions of VCF software and move their VCF environments between on-premises data centers and supported cloud endpoints. Advanced services for Private AI provide customers with the benefits of AI without having to compromise control of data, privacy, and compliance by bringing the AI model to customers data. VCF: VCF delivers integrated, enterprise-class compute, networking, storage, management, and security across any environment. VCF includes native Kubernetes to support both virtual machines and containerized workloads on a single platform, enables advanced AI and machine learning workloads at enterprise scale and offers integrated data services capabilities. Our solutions enhance our customers ability to continuously optimize performance and costs, protect the 7 Table of Contents business from threats and enable the business to focus on outcomes instead of operations through advanced observability and insights. VMware Cloud Foundation Edge : The edge compute stack designed to deliver frictionless management of edge apps and infrastructure across many sites with limited resources. It efficiently manages infrastructure and applications at dispersed sites. vSphere Foundation IT Infrastructure Optimization: vSphere Foundation supports modern IT requirements by boosting operational efficiency, elevating security and supercharging workload performance, all in support of accelerating innovation. Private AI: This solution enables organizations to use generative AI technologies while addressing privacy and compliance needs of the organization. Live Recovery: This solution helps organizations combat the evolving threat landscape through solutions and technologies that enable organizational resilience through rapid recovery of applications, data and critical business services. Telco Cloud Platform: This solution supports network operations for telecom operators and communications service providers to modernize their infrastructure and allows them to create monetizable services. The modernization of the telecom infrastructure is critical to enabling operational agility, onboarding and delivering services much faster across domains and simplifying operations with automation. Tanzu Software Portfolio. Our application development, operations and optimization solutions help leading enterprises deliver highly performant applications and best-in-class user experiences. Tanzu Platform: This cloud native application platform accelerates software delivery, providing platform engineering teams with enhanced governance and operational efficiency while reducing toil and complexity for development teams. Tanzu Platform includes access to content including enterprise-ready curated distributions of open source software technologies used for storing and processing data. It also includes Tanzu AI Solutions, a set of capabilities that help application teams deliver generative AI-powered, intelligent applications quickly, safely, and at scale. Tanzu Platform also offers teams full-stack visibility from applications to infrastructure and efficient modern application lifecycle management across public and private clouds with Cloud Foundry and/or with any conformant Kubernetes. Tanzu Data: A suite of data services that provides advanced analytical data warehouse capabilities and real-time transactions and processing at massive scale with an in-memory data grid with vector database capabilities for AI use cases. Tanzu CloudHealth: This solution simplifies financial management, streamlines operations, and improves organizational collaboration across the multi-cloud environment. Tanzu Labs: This service provides hands-on cloud native consulting services to help customers move software to production while strengthening platform engineering skills. VeloCloud Portfolio. VeloCloud provides networking solutions to connect, secure and optimize workloads across distributed locations. By combining our VeloRAIN (Robust AI Networking) architecture with seamless connectivity and outcome-based quality of service, VeloCloud provides users and devices with compute and connectivity to optimize performance, security and reliability across fixed or mobile environments, while simplifying operations. SD-WAN and SASE : Our SD-WAN (software-defined wide area network) solution, whether a part of our SASE (secure access service edge) architecture offering or standalone, provides a platform for enterprises to distribute modern applications and advanced AI systems while delivering security and ubiquity of access for distributed applications. Our SD-WAN or SASE solutions bring software-defined networking, security and AIOps together to support ubiquitous access across fiber, cellular and satellite for optimal performance and availability for modern applications. VeloRAIN : Our architecture uses AI or machine learning to improve the performa