Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A . Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 86 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 86 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 171 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 171 Item 9B. Other Information 171 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions t hat Prevent Inspections 172 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 172 Item 11. Executive Compensation 173 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 173 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 173 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 173 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 174 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 177 1 Bank of America Part I Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Item 1. Business Bank of America Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, the Corporation, we, us and our may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation s organizational structure and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. Bank of America is one of the world s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. Bank of America s website is www.bankofamerica.com, and the Investor Relations portion of our website is http://investor.bankofamerica.com. We use our website to distribute company information, including as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We routinely post and make accessible financial and other information, including environmental, social and governance (ESG) information, regarding the Corporation on our website. Investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to our press releases, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls and webcasts. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on the Investor Relations portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC and at the SEC s website, www.sec.gov. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information contained on our website as referenced in this paragraph, or otherwise in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, we make available on the Investor Relations portion of our website: (i) our Code of Conduct; (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the Board). Our Code of Conduct constitutes a code of ethics and a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the required individuals associated with the Corporation for purposes of the respective rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. We also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Conduct and waivers of our Code of Conduct required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange on the Investor Relations portion of our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to shareholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, NC1-007-56-06, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. Segments Through our various bank and nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global Wealth Investment Management (GWIM) , Global Banking and Global Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages 36 through 46 of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) and Note 23 Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product-specific basis. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, technology, price, fees, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits, customer convenience and experience and relationships in relevant markets. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. Human Capital Resources We strive to make Bank of America a great place to work for our employees. We value our employees and seek to establish and maintain human resource policies that are consistent with our core values and that help realize the power of our people. Our Board and its Compensation and Human Capital Committee provide oversight of our human capital management strategies, programs and practices. The Corporation s senior management provides regular briefings on human capital matters to the Board and its Committees to facilitate the Board s oversight. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation employed approximately 208,000 and 213,000 employees, of which 80 percent and 82 percent were located in the U.S., respectively. None of our U.S. employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Additionally, in 2021 and 2020, the Corporation s compensation and benefits expense was $36.1 billion and $32.7 billion, or 61 percent and 59 percent, of total noninterest expense. Diversity and Inclusion The Corporation s commitment to diversity and inclusion starts at the top with oversight from our Board and CEO. The Corporation s senior management sets the diversity and inclusion goals, and the Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief Diversity Inclusion Officer partner with our CEO and senior management to drive our diversity and inclusion strategy, programs, initiatives and policies. The Global Diversity and Inclusion Council, which consists of senior executives from every line of business and region, is chaired by our CEO and has Bank of America 2 been in place for over 20 years. The Council sponsors and supports business, operating unit and regional diversity and inclusion councils to ensure alignment with enterprise diversity strategies and goals. Our practices and policies have resulted in strong representation across the Corporation where our broad employee population mirrors the clients and communities we serve. We have a Board and senior management team that are 50 percent and 55 percent racially, ethnically and gender diverse. As of December 31, 2021, of global employees who self-identified, 50 percent of employees were women, and, among U.S.-based employees who self-identified, 49 percent were people of color, including 13 percent who were Asian, 14 percent who were Black/African American and 19 percent who were Hispanic/Latino. As of December 31, 2021, the Corporation s top three management levels in relation to the CEO were composed of more than 42 percent women globally and 24 percent people of color in the U.S., including eight percent who were Asian, nine percent who were Black/African American and six percent who were Hispanic/Latino. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, the Corporation s managers at all levels were composed of 42 percent women globally and 41 percent people of color in the U.S., including 13 percent who were Asian, 10 percent who were Black/African American and 16 percent who were Hispanic/Latino. These workforce diversity metrics are reported regularly to the senior management team and to the Board. We invest in our talent by offering a range of development programs and resources that allow employees to develop and progress in their careers. We reinforce our commitment to diversity and inclusion by investing internally in our employee networks and by facilitating enterprise-wide learning and conversations about various diversity and inclusion topics and issues. Further, we partner with various external organizations, which focus on advancing diverse talent. We also have practices in place for attracting and retaining diverse talent, including campus recruitment. For example, in 2021, 46 percent of our global campus hires were women, and, in the U.S., 53 percent were people of color. Employee Engagement and Talent Retention As part of our ongoing efforts to make the Corporation a great place to work, we have conducted a confidential annual Employee Engagement Survey (Survey) for nearly two decades. The Survey results are reviewed by the Board and senior management and used to assist in reviewing the Corporation s human capital strategies, programs and practices. In 2021, 89 percent of the Corporation s employees participated in the Survey, and our Employee Engagement Index, an overall measure of employee satisfaction with the Corporation, was 88 percent. Our turnover among employees was 12 percent in 2021 and seven percent in 2020. Our pre-pandemic levels of turnover in 2019 and 2018 were 11 percent and 12 percent. Additionally, the Corporation provides a variety of resources to help employees grow in their current roles and build new skills, including resources to help employees find new opportunities, re-skill and seek leadership positions. The learning and development strategy is grounded in the development of horizontal skills delivered throughout the organization. Senior leaders, managers and teammates are onboarded and build horizontal skills, as well as role-specific skills, to drive high performance. This approach also facilitates internal mobility and promotion of talent to build a bench of qualified managers and leaders. In 2021, more than 26,000 employees found new roles within the Corporation and we delivered more than 10 million hours of training and development to our teammates through the Corporation s training academy. Fair and Equitable Compensation The Corporation is committed to racial and gender pay equity by striving to compensate all of our employees fairly and equitably. We maintain robust policies and practices that reinforce our commitment, including reviews conducted by a third-party consultant with oversight from our Board and senior management. In 2021, our review covered our regional hubs (U.S., U.K., France, Ireland, Hong Kong and Singapore) and India and showed that compensation received by women, on average, was greater than 99 percent of that received by men in comparable positions and, in the U.S., compensation received by people of color was, on average, greater than 99 percent of that received by teammates who are not people of color in comparable positions. We also strive to pay our employees fairly based on market rates for their roles, experience and how they perform. We regularly benchmark against other companies both within and outside our industry to help ensure our pay is competitive. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we raised our minimum hourly wage for U.S. employees to $21 per hour, which is above all governmental minimum wage levels in all jurisdictions in which we operate in the U.S., and announced plans to increase to $25 per hour by 2025. Health and Wellness 2021 Focus The Corporation also is committed to supporting employees physical, emotional and financial wellness by offering flexible and competitive benefits, including comprehensive health and insurance benefits and wellness resources. In 2021, we continued efforts to support our employees through the ongoing health crisis resulting from the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic (the pandemic). We continued to monitor guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, medical boards and health authorities and prioritized sharing such guidance with our teammates. Other benefits and resources related to the pandemic included offering no-cost COVID-19 testing, paid time off to allow teammates to get vaccinated for COVID-19, providing teammates with incentives for getting the vaccine and booster, hosting a medical expert education series and providing on-site COVID-19 vaccine and booster clinics. We continued our efforts around providing affordable access to healthcare, including offering no-cost, 24/7 access to virtual general medical and behavioral health resources to help our enrolled U.S. teammates stay healthy, both physically and emotionally. We kept U.S. health insurance premiums unchanged for teammates earning less than $50,000 for the ninth year in a row, and had nominal premium increases for teammates earning from $50,000 to $100,000 for the fifth year in a row. We also provided preventative care medications at no cost for U.S. teammates enrolled in the Bank s medical plan. We have expanded our child and adult care solutions for eligible U.S. teammates to help better support their families and dependents, including providing up to 50 days of backup care for both adults and children and expanding access to our reimbursement program to help employees manage child care expenses. Additional support to working parents includes parental leave and time off from work to care for and bond with a newborn or adopted child (16 weeks paid plus 10 weeks unpaid for a total of up to 26 weeks). 3 Bank of America For more information about our human capital management, see the Corporation s website and 2021 Annual Report to shareholders that will be available on the Investor Relations portion of our website in March 2022 (the content of which is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Government Supervision and Regulation The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America. We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design, implementation and board oversight of BHCs and national banks risk governance frameworks. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries, including minimum capital ratios, supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depository institutions, at least satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act ratings. Failure to be an eligible financial holding company could result in the Federal Reserve limiting Bank of America's activities, including potential acquisitions. The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased over the past several years, beginning with the response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Financial Reform Act). We cannot assess whether there will be any additional major changes in the regulatory environment and expect that our business will remain subject to continuing and extensive regulation and supervision. We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our entities, management and ability to make distributions to shareholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and New York Stock Exchange, among others; our futures commission merchant subsidiaries supporting commodities and derivatives businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), National Futures Association, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services entities in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and France are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the European Central Bank and Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorit de Contr le Prudentiel et de R solution and Autorit des March s Financiers, respectively. Source of Strength Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC s loss, subject to certain exceptions. Transactions with Affiliates Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving their nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. Deposit Insurance Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank for each account ownership category. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF. The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The FDIC adopted regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. As of the date of this report, the DIF ratio is below this required target, and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit insurance assessments. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see