Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A . Risk Factors 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 20 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 85 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 85 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 164 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 164 Item 9B. Other Information 164 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 164 Item 11. Executive Compensation 164 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 165 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 165 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 165 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 166 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 170 1 Bank of America Part I Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Item 1. Business Bank of America Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, the Corporation, we, us and our may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation s organizational structure and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. Bank of America is one of the world s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. Bank of America s website is www.bankofamerica.com and the Investor Relations portion of our website is http://investor.bankofamerica.com. We use our website to distribute company information, including as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We routinely post and make accessible financial and other information regarding the Corporation on our website. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to our press releases, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls and webcasts. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on the Investor Relations portion of our website under the heading Financial Information (accessible by clicking on the SEC Filings link) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC and at the SEC s website, www.sec.gov. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information contained on our website as referenced in this paragraph is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, we make available on the Investor Relations portion of our website under the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of Conduct; (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines (accessible by clicking on the Governance Highlights link); and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (accessible by clicking on the committee names under the Committee Composition link). We also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Conduct and waivers of our Code of Conduct required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange on the Investor Relations portion of our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to shareholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, NC1-007-56-06, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. Segments Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global Wealth Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages 32 through 41 of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) and Note 24 Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product specific basis. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. Employees At December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 208,000 employees. None of our domestic employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee relations to be good. Government Supervision and Regulation The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America. We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries, including minimum capital ratios, supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depository institutions, at least satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act ratings. Failure to be an eligible financial holding company could result in the Bank of America 2 Federal Reserve limiting Bank of America's activities, including potential acquisitions. The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased over the past several years, beginning with the response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Financial Reform Act). We cannot assess whether there will be any additional major changes in the regulatory environment and expect that our business will remain subject to continuing and extensive regulation and supervision. We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and New York Stock Exchange, among others; our commodities businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); our U.S. derivatives activity is subject to regulation and supervision of the CFTC, National Futures Association and SEC, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services operations in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and France are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the European Central Bank and Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorit de Contr le Prudentiel et de R solution and Autorit des March s Financiers, respectively. Source of Strength Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC s loss, subject to certain exceptions. Transactions with Affiliates Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving its nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. Deposit Insurance Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per customer. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF. The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The FDIC adopted regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. As of the date of this report, the DIF ratio is below this required target and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit insurance assessments. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see