Item 1. Business Description K- 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors K- 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments K- 28 Item 1C. Cybersecurity K- 28 Item 2. Description of Properties K- 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings K- 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures K- 32 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities K- 32 Item 6. [Reserved] K- 34 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations K- 35 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk K- 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data K- 67 Consolidated Balance Sheets December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 K- 70 Consolidated Statements of Earnings Years Ended December 31, 2023, December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021 K- 72 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Years Ended December 31, 2023, December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021 K- 73 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity Years Ended December 31, 2023, December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021 K- 73 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years Ended December 31, 2023, December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021 K- 74 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements K- 75 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure K- 118 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures K- 118 Item 9B. Other Information K- 118 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection K- 118 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance K- 118 Item 11. Executive Compensation K- 118 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters K- 118 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence K- 118 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services K- 118 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules K- 118 Exhibit Index K- 122 Signatures K- 124 Par t I Item 1. Busines s Description Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire, Company or Registrant ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in numerous diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates numerous other businesses engaged in a variety of manufacturing, services, retailing and other activities. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters is in Omaha, Nebraska. Berkshire s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are few centralized or integrated business functions. Berkshire s senior management team participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. Berkshire s senior management is also responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire s corporate governance practices, including monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed. Berkshire s Board of Directors is responsible for assuring an appropriate successor to the Chief Executive Officer. The Berkshire Code of Business Conduct and Ethics emphasizes, among other things, the commitment to ethics and compliance with government laws and regulations and provides basic standards for ethical and legal behavior of its employees. Human capital and resources are an integral and essential component of Berkshire s businesses. Berkshire and its subsidiary business units employed approximately 396,500 people worldwide at the end of 2023, of which approximately 80% were in the United States ( U.S. ) and 20% were represented by unions. Employees engage in a wide variety of occupations. Consistent with Berkshire s decentralized management philosophy, Berkshire s operating businesses individually establish specific policies and practices concerning the attraction and retention of personnel within their organizations. Given the wide variations in the nature and size of business activities, specific policies and practices may vary widely among Berkshire s operating subsidiaries. Policies and practices commonly address, among other things: maintaining a safe work environment and minimizing or eliminating workplace injuries; offering competitive compensation, which includes various health insurance and retirement benefits, as well as incentives to recognize and reward performance; wellness programs; training, learning and career advancement opportunities; and hiring practices intended to identify qualified candidates and promote diversity and inclusion in the workforce. Berkshire s combined U.S. workforce demographics, based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines, are available on its website ( https://www.berkshirehathaway.com) , under sustainability. Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance subsidiaries. Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks as well as life and health risks worldwide. Berkshire s insurance businesses employed approximately 43,000 people at the end of 2023. For purposes of this discussion, entities that provide insurance or reinsurance are referred to as insurers. In direct or primary insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the insurer assumes defined portions of risks that other direct insurers or reinsurers assumed in their own insuring activities. Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, financial ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions. Insurers based in the U.S. are subject to regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed to write policies on an admitted basis. The primary focus of state regulation is to monitor financial solvency of insurers and otherwise protect policyholder interests. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities and have the authority to suspend or revoke a company s authority to do business. States regulate the payment of shareholder dividends by insurance companies and other transactions with affiliates. K- 1 Insurers that market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are licensed are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable through admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as excess and surplus lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party s direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates or reinsurance contracts. The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, risk management, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements. U.S. states, through the NAIC, and international insurance regulators through the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ( IAIS ) have been developing standards and best practices focused on establishing a common set of principles ( Insurance Core Principles ) and framework ( ComFrame ) for the regulation of large multi-national insurance groups. The IAIS is developing capital standards for internationally active insurance groups ( Insurance Capital Standard ) based on a consolidated group approach and is also evaluating a potentially comparable group capital standard based on the aggregation of regulated entities and their underlying local capital requirements ( Aggregation Method ). The IAIS is also developing standards that address supervision, coordination of regulators, risk management and governance. While the IAIS standards do not have legal effect, U.S. state insurance departments and the NAIC are implementing various group supervision regulatory tools and mandates that are responsive to certain IAIS standards. U.S. state regulators have formed supervisory colleges intended to promote communication and cooperation amongst the various domestic and international insurance regulators. The Nebraska Department of Insurance acts as the lead supervisor for Berkshire s insurance companies and chairs the Berkshire supervisory college. U.S. state regulators require insurance groups to file an annual report and an Own Risk Solvency Assessment or ORSA, with the group s lead supervisor. The NAIC adopted a group capital calculation based on methodology similar to the Aggregation Method, which leverages the NAIC s existing risk based capital calculation methods. The NAIC s group capital calculation is a tool designed to help the lead supervisor understand the capital adequacy across an insurance group. The NAIC is also developing further tools, including various liquidity assessments, that will likely be imposed on insurance groups in the future. Berkshire s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels, which differentiates them from their competitors. The combined statutory surplus of Berkshire s U.S.-based insurers was approximately $303 billion at December 31, 2023. Berkshire s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard Poor s and A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and claims paying ability. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established a Terrorism Insurance Program ( Program ) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury to provide federal reinsurance of certified terrorism losses incurred by U.S. commercial property and casualty insurers. The Program currently extends to December 31, 2027 through the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019. Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. The Department of the Treasury is responsible for certifying acts of terrorism under TRIA. Federal reinsurance under TRIA may apply if the industry insured loss for certified events occurring during the calendar year exceeds $200 million. To be eligible for reinsurance under TRIA, insurers must make insurance coverage available for acts of terrorism by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for the coverage and the federal share of insured losses resulting from an act of terrorism. TRIA excludes certain forms of direct insurance, such as personal and commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines. Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses. In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 80% of their insured losses in excess of the insurers group deductible. Under the Program, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible for Berkshire s insurance group is expected to approximate $2.5 billion in 2024. There is also an aggregate program limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal reinsurance coverage for each TRIA year. K- 2 The extent of insurance regulation varies widely among the countries where Berkshire s non-U.S. operations conduct business. Each country imposes licensing, solvency, auditing and financial reporting requirements, although the type and extent of the requirements may differ substantially by jurisdiction. Significant variations can also be found in the size, structure and resources of the local non-U.S. regulatory departments that oversee insurance activities. Certain regulators maintain close relationships with subject insurers and others operate a risk-based approach. Berkshire s non-U.S. insurance operations are conducted through subsidiaries and branches of subsidiaries. Berkshire insurance subsidiaries are located in several countries, including Germany, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), Ireland, Luxembourg, Australia and South Africa, and also maintain branches in several other countries. Most of these foreign jurisdictions impose local capital requirements. Other legal requirements involve discretionary licensing procedures, local retention of funds and records, and data privacy and protection programs. Berkshire s international insurance companies are also subject to multinational application of certain U.S. laws. There are various regulatory bodies and initiatives that impact Berkshire in multiple international jurisdictions and the potential for significant effect on the Berkshire insurance group could be heightened due to industry and economic developments. In 2016, the U.K. voted in a national referendum to withdraw from the European Union ( EU ) ( Brexit ), which resulted in the U.K. s withdrawal from the EU on January 31, 2020. In anticipation of the U.K. leaving the EU, Berkshire Hathaway European Insurance DAC in Ireland was established to permit property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses to continue to operate in the EU. Berkshire also continues to maintain a substantial presence in London following Brexit. Berkshire s insurance underwriting operations include the following groups: (1) GEICO, (2) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group and (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group. Alleghany Corporation ( Alleghany ), based in New York, New York, was acquired by Berkshire on October 19, 2022. Alleghany s operating subsidiaries include property and casualty reinsurance and insurance, as well as a portfolio of non-insurance businesses. Alleghany s primary insurance businesses are included in the Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group and its reinsurance businesses are included in the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group. Alleghany s non-insurance businesses are included in the manufacturing and services segments. Except for retroactive reinsurance and periodic payment annuity products, which generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over long time periods (creating float, see Investments section), Berkshire expects to achieve an underwriting profit over time and that its managers will reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is defined as earned premiums less incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses. Underwriting profit does not include income earned from investments. Additional information related to each of Berkshire s underwriting groups follows. GEICO GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland. GEICO s insurance subsidiaries are led by Government Employees Insurance Company and include several other GEICO insurance entities. The GEICO insurance companies offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and also offer insurance for motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats and small commercial fleets. Marketing is primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone, and to a lesser extent, through captive agents. GEICO also operates as an insurance agency for other insurance carriers that offer homeowners, renters, condominium, life and identity protection insurance to individuals desiring insurance coverages other than those offered by GEICO insurance entities. GEICO competes for private passenger automobile insurance customers in the preferred, standard and non-standard risk markets with other companies that sell directly to the customer and with companies that use agency sales forces, including State Farm, Allstate, Progressive and USAA. According to the most recently published A.M. Best data for 2022, the five largest automobile insurers had a combined market share of approximately 61.2% based on written premiums, with GEICO s market share being the third largest at approximately 13.8%. Seasonal variations in GEICO s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or other events and factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims. K- 3 State insurance departments stringently regulate private passenger auto insurance policies and rates. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. GEICO s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims. The name and reputation of GEICO are material assets and those assets and other service marks are protected through appropriate registrations. Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ( BH Primary ) is a collection of independently managed insurers that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the U.S. These various operations are discussed below. National Indemnity Company ( NICO ), domiciled in Nebraska, and certain affiliates ( NICO Primary ) underwrite commercial automobile and general liability insurance on an admitted basis and on an excess and surplus basis. Insurance coverage is offered nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers. The Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies ( BHHC ) are a group of insurers offering workers compensation, commercial automobile and commercial property coverages to a diverse client base. BHHC has a national reach, with the ability to provide first-dollar and small to large deductible workers compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those where coverage is available only through state-operated workers compensation funds. NICO Primary and BHHC are each based in Omaha, Nebraska. Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company ( BHSI ) offers commercial property and casualty, executive and professional, and various other insurance coverages through BHSI and other Berkshire insurance affiliates. BHSI writes primary and excess policies on an admitted and non-admitted basis in the U.S., and on a local or foreign non-admitted basis outside the U.S. BHSI is based in Boston, Massachusetts, with other regional offices in the U.S. BHSI also maintains international offices and branches in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and across several other countries in Asia and Europe. BHSI writes business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well as managing general agents. Alleghany s property and casualty insurance business is conducted in the U.S. on both an admitted and non-admitted basis through RSUI Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries ( RSUI ) and CapSpecialty, Inc. and its subsidiaries ( CapSpecialty ). RSUI and CapSpecialty primarily write specialty insurance in the property, umbrella/excess liability, professional liability, directors and officers liability and general liability lines of business. Insurance is written through independent wholesale insurance brokers, retail agents and managing general agents. MedPro Group ( MedPro ) is a leading provider of healthcare liability ( HCL ) insurance. MedPro provides customized HCL insurance, claims, patient safety and risk solutions to physicians, surgeons, dentists and other healthcare professionals, as well as hospitals, senior care and other healthcare facilities. Additionally, MedPro provides HCL insurance solutions to international markets through other Berkshire insurance affiliates, delivers liability insurance to other professionals, and offers specialized accident and health insurance solutions to colleges and other customers through its subsidiaries and other Berkshire insurance affiliates. MedPro is based in Fort Wayne, Indiana. U.S. Liability Insurance Company ( USLI ) includes a group of five specialty insurers that underwrite commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted basis, as well as on an excess and surplus basis. USLI markets policies in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Canada through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USLI companies also underwrite and market a wide variety of specialty insurance products. USLI is based in Wayne, Pennsylvania. Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies ( GUARD ) is a group of five insurance companies that provide a full suite of commercial insurance products, as well as homeowners policies to over 450,000 small to mid-sized businesses and homeowners. These offerings are made through independent agents and retail and wholesale brokers. GUARD is based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Berkshire Hathaway Direct Insurance Company and its affiliates ( BH Direct ) offer commercial insurance products (including workers compensation, property, auto, general and professional liability) to small business customers. BH Direct s products are primarily sold through two internet-based distribution platforms, biBERK.com and Threeinsurance.com. BH Direct writes policies on an admitted basis and is based in Stamford, Connecticut. MLMIC Insurance Company ( MLMIC ) writes medical professional liability insurance policies in New York State through brokers and on a direct basis to medical and dental professionals, health care providers and hospitals. MLMIC is based in Albany, New York. K- 4 Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group Berkshire s combined global reinsurance business, referred to as the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ), offers a wide range of coverages on property, casualty, life and health risks to insurers and reinsurers worldwide. BHRG conducts business activities in 26 countries. Reinsurance business is written through NICO and affiliates ( NICO Group ), General Re Corporation and its subsidiaries ( General Re Group ) and Transatlantic Reinsurance Company and affiliates ( TransRe Group ). The NICO Group and General Re Group underwriting operations in the U.S. are based in Stamford, Connecticut and the TransRe Group is based in New York, New York. Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified group or class of risks ceded by a direct insurer or reinsurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual underlying risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums and losses of the direct insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the direct insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or retention. Both quota-share and excess reinsurance contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification. The type and volume of business written is dependent on market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms. The level of underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets as well as from the timing of particularly large reinsurance transactions. Property/casualty The NICO Group offers traditional property/casualty reinsurance on both an excess-of-loss and a quota-share basis, catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty and facultative reinsurance, and primary insurance on an excess-of-loss basis for large or unusual risks. The type and volume of business written by the NICO Group may vary significantly from period to period resulting from changes in perceived premium rate adequacy and from unique or large transactions. For the past several years, a significant portion of NICO Group s annual reinsurance premium derived from a 20% quota-share agreement with Insurance Australia Group Limited ( IAG ). This quota-share agreement was renewed and extended effective January 1, 2023, with an expiration of December 31, 2029. IAG is a multi-line insurer in Australia, New Zealand and other Asia-Pacific countries. The General Re Group includes a global property and casualty reinsurance business. Reinsurance contracts are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of business. Contracts are primarily in the form of treaties, and to a lesser degree, on a facultative basis. The General Re Group conducts business in North America, primarily marketed on a direct basis through General Reinsurance Corporation ( GRC ), which is licensed in the District of Columbia and all states, except Hawaii, where it is an accredited reinsurer. GRC also conducts operations in North America through numerous branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. In North America, the General Re Group includes General Star National Insurance Company, General Star Indemnity Company and Genesis Insurance Company, which offer a broad array of specialty and surplus lines and property, casualty and professional liability coverages. These companies offer solutions for the unique needs of public entity, commercial and captive customers and their business is marketed through a select group of wholesale brokers, managing general underwriters and program administrators. The General Re Group s international reinsurance business is primarily written on a direct basis through General Reinsurance AG, based in Cologne, Germany, and subsidiaries and branches in numerous other countries, as well as through brokers, including Faraday Underwriting Limited ( Faraday ), a subsidiary. Faraday owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd s of London and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435. The TransRe Group provides pro-rata and excess-of-loss reinsurance across various property and casualty lines of business. Contracts are written on both a treaty and facultative basis to insurance and other reinsurance companies in the U.S. and in foreign markets through subsidiaries and branches in numerous countries. Business is written primarily through brokers, and to a lesser extent on a direct basis. Life/health The General Re Group also conducts a global life and health reinsurance business. In 2023, net premiums written were primarily in the Asia-Pacific, U.S. and Western Europe regions. The General Re Group underwrites life, disability, supplemental health, critical illness and long-term care risks on a direct basis. K- 5 Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska ( BHLN ) and its affiliates write reinsurance covering various forms of traditional life insurance exposures several years ago. BHLN and affiliates also reinsure certain guaranteed minimum death, income and similar risks on closed-blocks of variable annuity risks, which are in run-off. Retroactive reinsurance Retroactive reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies for adverse development of claims arising from loss events that have already occurred under property and casualty policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is provided on an excess basis (above a stated retention) or for losses payable after the inception of the contract with no additional ceding company retention. Contracts are normally subject to aggregate limits of indemnification, which can be exceptionally large in amount. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under these contracts. The concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing retroactive reinsurance contract prices and terms since loss payments may occur over decades. Normally, expected ultimate losses payable under these policies are expected to exceed premiums, thus producing underwriting losses through the amortization of deferred charge assets established with respect to these contracts. Nevertheless, this business is written, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds generated for inv