Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Reserved 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 64 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 64 Item 9B. Other Information 65 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 65 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 65 Item 11. Executive Compensation 65 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 65 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 65 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 65 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 65 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 68 Signatures 69 2 Table of Contents INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future and may relate to such matters as net sales growth, changes in comparable sales, cannibalization of existing locations by new openings, price or fee changes, earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, warehouse openings and closures, capital spending, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, future financial reporting, financing, margins, return on invested capital, strategic direction, expense controls, membership renewal rates, shopping frequency, litigation, and the demand for our products and services. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified because they contain words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, likely, may, might, plan, potential, predict, project, seek, should, target, will, would, or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results, or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements, including, without limitation, the factors set forth in the section titled Item 1A-Risk Factors , and other factors noted in the section titled Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements, except as required by law. PART I Item 1 Business Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries (Costco or the Company) began operations in 1983, in Seattle, Washington. We are principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States (U.S.) and Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Japan, United Kingdom (U.K.), Korea, Taiwan, Australia, Spain, France, China, and Iceland. Costco operated 838, 815, and 795 warehouses worldwide at August 28, 2022, August 29, 2021, and August 30, 2020, respectively. The Company operates e-commerce websites in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, U.K., Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and Australia. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, under the symbol COST. We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen four-week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week year). The material seasonal impact in our operations is increased net sales and earnings during the winter holiday season. References to 2022, 2021, and 2020 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 28, 2022, August 29, 2021, and August 30, 2020, respectively. General We operate membership warehouses and e-commerce websites based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally-branded and private-label products in a wide range of categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. When combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution and reduced handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, these volumes and turnover enable us to operate profitably at significantly lower gross margins (net sales less merchandise costs) than most other retailers. We often sell inventory before we are required to pay for it, even while taking advantage of early payment discounts. We buy most of our merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to cross-docking consolidation points (depots) or directly to our warehouses. Our depots receive large shipments from manufacturers and quickly ship these goods to warehouses. This process creates freight volume and handling efficiencies, lowering costs associated with traditional multiple-step distribution channels. For our e-commerce operations we ship merchandise through our depots, our logistics operations for big and bulky items, as well as through drop-ship and other delivery arrangements with our suppliers. 3 Table of Contents Our average warehouse space is approximately 146,000 square feet, with newer units being slightly larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the quality of merchandise and low prices, our warehouses are not elaborate. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits and using a membership format, we believe our inventory losses (shrinkage) are well below those of typical retail operations. Our warehouses on average operate on a seven-day, 70-hour week. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are shorter than many other retailers, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse-type operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities, reducing labor required. In general, with variations by country, our warehouses accept certain credit cards, including Costco co-branded cards, debit cards, cash and checks, Executive member 2% reward certificates, co-brand cardholder rebates, and our proprietary stored-value card (shop card). Our strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high-quality merchandise at prices we believe are consistently lower than elsewhere. We seek to limit most items to fast-selling models, sizes, and colors. We carry less than 4,000 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core warehouse business, significantly less than other broadline retailers. We average anywhere from 10,000 to 11,000 SKUs online, some of which are also available in our warehouses. Many consumable products are offered for sale in case, carton, or multiple-pack quantities only. In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we typically have a 90-day return policy and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty. Additional third-party warranty coverage is sold on certain electronic items. We offer merchandise and services in the following categories: Core Merchandise Categories (or core business): Foods and Sundries (including sundries, dry grocery, candy, cooler, freezer, deli, liquor, and tobacco) Non-Foods (including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, garden and patio, sporting goods, tires, toys and seasonal, office supplies, automotive care, postage, tickets, apparel, small appliances, furniture, domestics, housewares, special order kiosk, and jewelry) Fresh Foods (including meat, produce, service deli, and bakery) Warehouse Ancillary (includes gasoline, pharmacy, optical, food court, hearing aids, and tire installation) and Other Businesses (includes e-commerce, business centers, travel, and other) Warehouse ancillary businesses operate primarily within or next to our warehouses, encouraging members to shop more frequently. The number of warehouses with gas stations varies significantly by country, and we have no gasoline business in Korea or China. We operated 668 gas stations at the end of 2022. Net sales for our gasoline business increased to approximately 14% of total net sales in 2022. Our other businesses sell products and services that complement our warehouse operations (core and warehouse ancillary businesses). Our e-commerce operations give members convenience and a broader selection of goods and services. Net sales for e-commerce represented approximately 7% of total net sales in 2022. This figure does not include other services we offer online in certain countries such as business delivery, travel, same-day grocery, and various other services. Our business centers carry items tailored specifically for food services, convenience stores and offices, and offer walk-in shopping and deliveries. Business centers are included in our total warehouse count. Costco Travel offers vacation packages, hotels, cruises, and other travel products exclusively for Costco members (offered in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K.). 4 Table of Contents We have direct buying relationships with many producers of brand-name merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise from any one supplier. The COVID-19 pandemic created unprecedented supply constraints, including disruptions and delays that have impacted and could continue to impact the flow and availability of certain products. When sources of supply become unavailable, we seek alternatives. We also purchase and manufacture private-label merchandise, as long as quality and member demand are high and the value to our members is significant. Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Membership Our members may utilize their memberships at all of our warehouses and websites. Gold Star memberships are available to individuals; Business memberships are limited to businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license, or comparable document. Business members may add additional cardholders (affiliates), to which the same annual fee applies. Affiliates are not available for Gold Star members. Our annual fee for these memberships is $60 in the U.S. and varies in other countries. All paid memberships include a free household card. Our member renewal rate was 93% in the U.S. and Canada and 90% worldwide at the end of 2022. The majority of members renew within six months following their renewal date. Our renewal rate, which excludes affiliates of Business members, is a trailing calculation that captures renewals during the period seven to eighteen months prior to the reporting date. Our membership counts include active memberships as well as memberships that have not renewed within the 12 months prior to the reporting date. At the end of 2020, we standardized our membership count methodology globally to be consistent with the U.S. and Canada, which resulted in the addition to the count of approximately 2.0 million total cardholders for 2020, of which 1.3 million were paid members. Membership fee income and the renewal rate calculations were not affected. Our membership was made up of the following (in thousands): 2022 2021 2020 Gold Star 54,000 50,200 46,800 Business, including affiliates 11,800 11,500 11,300 Total paid members 65,800 61,700 58,100 Household cards 53,100 49,900 47,400 Total cardholders 118,900 111,600 105,500 Paid cardholders (except affiliates) are eligible to upgrade to an Executive membership in the U.S., for an additional annual fee of $60. Executive memberships are also available in Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Japan, Korea, and Taiwan, for which the additional fee varies. Executive members earn a 2% reward on qualified purchases (generally up to a maximum reward of $1,000 per year), redeemable at Costco warehouses. This program also offers (except in Mexico and Korea) access to additional savings and benefits on various business and consumer services, such as auto and home insurance, the Costco auto purchase program, and check printing. These services are generally provided by third parties and vary by state and country. Executive members totaled 29.1 million and represented 57% of paid members (excluding affiliates) in the U.S. and Canada, and 22% of paid members (excluding affiliates) in our Other International operations. The sales penetration of Executive members represented approximately 71% of worldwide net sales in 2022. 5 Table of Contents Human Capital Our Code of Ethics requires that we Take Care of Our Employees, which is fundamental to the obligation to Take Care of Our Members. We must also carefully control our selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses, so that we can sell high quality goods and services at low prices. Compensation and benefits for employees is our largest expense after the cost of merchandise and is carefully monitored. Employee Base At the end of 2022, we employed 304,000 employees worldwide. The large majority (approximately 95%) is employed in our membership warehouses and distribution channels, and less than 10% are represented by unions. We also utilize seasonal employees during peak periods. The total number of employees by segment is: Number of Employees 2022 2021 2020 United States 202,000 192,000 181,000 Canada 50,000 47,000 46,000 Other International 52,000 49,000 46,000 Total employees 304,000 288,000 273,000 Growth and Engagement We believe that our warehouses are among the most productive in the retail industry, owing in substantial part to the commitment and efficiency of our employees. We seek to provide them not merely with employment but careers. Many attributes of our business contribute to the objective; the more significant include: competitive compensation and benefits for those working in our membership warehouses and distributions channels; a commitment to promoting from within; and maintaining a ratio of at least 50% of our employee base being full-time employees. These attributes contribute to what we consider, especially for the industry, a high retention rate. In 2022, in the U.S. that rate was approximately 90% for employees who have been with us for at least one year. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The commitment to Take Care of Our Employees is also the foundation of our approach to diversity, equity and inclusion and creating an inclusive and respectful workplace. In 2022, we appointed a new Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer. Embracing differences is important to the growth of our Company. It leads to more opportunities, innovation, and employee satisfaction and connects us to the communities where we do business. Well Being In October 2021, we provided an increase of a minimum of $0.50 per hour for U.S. and Canada wage scales. In March 2022, we provided certain compensation increases, including a $0.75 per hour increase to the top of the U.S. wage scales, increased the starting wage to $17.50, and granted our employees one additional day of paid time off. In July 2022, we provided an additional increase to the top of the U.S. wage scales of $0.50 per hour. Costco is firmly committed to helping protect the health and safety of our members and employees and to serving our communities. As the global effect of COVID-19 continues to evolve, we are closely monitoring the changing situation and complying with public health guidance. For more detailed information regarding our programs and initiatives, see Employees within our Sustainability Commitment (located on our website). This report and other information on our website are not incorporated by reference into and do not form any part of this Annual Report. 6 Table of Contents Competition Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price, merchandise quality and selection, location, convenience, distribution strategy, and customer service. We compete on a worldwide basis with global, national, and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets, supercenters, internet retailers, gasoline stations, hard discounters, department and specialty stores, and operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise. Walmart, Target, Kroger, and Amazon are among our significant general merchandise retail competitors in the U.S. We also compete with other warehouse clubs, including Walmart s Sam s Club and BJ s Wholesale Club. Many of the major metropolitan areas in the U.S. and certain of our Other International locations have multiple competing clubs. Intellectual Property We believe that, to varying degrees, our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, proprietary processes, trade secrets, trade dress, domain names and similar intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important to our success. We have invested significantly in the development and protection of our well-recognized brands, including the Costco Wholesale trademarks and our private-label brand, Kirkland Signature. We believe that Kirkland Signature products are high quality, offered at prices that are generally lower than national brands, and help lower costs, differentiate our merchandise offerings, and generally earn higher margins. We expect to continue to increase the sales penetration of our private-label items. We rely on trademark and copyright laws, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality, license and other agreements with our suppliers, employees and others to protect our intellectual property. The availability and duration of trademark registrations vary by country; however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and registrations are maintained. Available Information Our U.S. website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with or furnishing such documents to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains a site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We have a code of ethics for senior financial officers, pursuant to Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale Corporation, 999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027. If the Company makes any amendments to this code (other than technical, administrative, or non-substantive amendments) or grants any waivers, including implicit waivers, to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or principal accounting officer and controller, we will disclose (on our website or in a Form 8-K report filed with the SEC) the nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date, and to whom it applies. 7 Table of Contents Information about our Executive Officers The executive officers of Costco, their position, and ages are listed below. All have over 25 years of service with the Company, with the exception of Mr. Sullivan who has 21 years of service. Name Position Executive Officer Since Age W. Craig Jelinek Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Jelinek has been a director since February 2010. Mr. Jelinek previously was President and CEO from January 2012 to February 2022. He was President and Chief Operating Officer from February 2010 to December 2011. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since 2004. 1995 70 Ron M. Vachris President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Vachris has been a director since February 2022. Mr. Vachris previously served as Executive Vice President of Merchandising from June 2016 to January 2022, as Senior Vice President, Real Estate Development, from August 2015 to June 2016, and Senior Vice President, General Manager, Northwest Region, from 2010 to July 2015. 2016 57 Richard A. Galanti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Galanti has been a director since January 1995. 1993 66 Jim C. Klauer Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern Division. Mr. Klauer was Senior Vice President, Non-Foods and E-commerce Merchandise, from 2013 to January 2018. 2018 60 Patrick J. Callans Executive Vice President, Administration. Mr. Callans was Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Risk Management, from 2013 to December 2018. 2019 60 Russ D. Miller Senior Executive Vice President, U.S. Operations. Mr. Miller was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southern Division and Mexico, from January 2018 to May 2022. Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President, Western Canada Region, from 2001 to January 2018. 2018 65 James P. Murphy Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, International Division. Mr. Murphy was Senior Vice President, International, from 2004 to October 2010. Mr. Murphy is retiring from the Company at the end of calendar year 2022. 2011 69 Timothy L. Rose Executive Vice President, Ancillary Businesses, Manufacturing, and Business Centers. Mr. Rose was Senior Vice President, Merchandising, Foods and Sundries and Private Label, from 1995 to December 2012. Mr. Rose is retiring from the Company effective November, 2022. 2013 70 Yoram B. Rubanenko Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Eastern Division. Mr. Rubanenko was Senior Vice President and General Manager, Southeast Region, from 2013 to September 2021, and Vice President, Regional Operations Manager for the Northeast Region, from 1998 to 2013. 2021 58 John Sullivan Executive Vice President, General Counsel Corporate Secretary. Mr. Sullivan has been General Counsel since 2016 and Corporate Secretary since 2010. 2021 62 Claudine E. Adamo Executive Vice President, Merchandising. Ms. Adamo was Senior Vice President, Non Foods, from 2018 to February 2022, and Vice President, Non Foods, from 2013 to 2018. 2022 52 Caton Frates Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest Division. Mr. Frates was Senior Vice President, Los Angeles Division, from 2015 to May 2022. 2022 54 Pierre Riel Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, International Division. Mr. Riel was Senior Vice President, Country Manager, Canada, from 2019 to March 2022, and Senior Vice President, Eastern Canada Region, from 2001 to 2019. 2022 59 8 Table of Contents