Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 35 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 Item 4A. Information About Our Executive Officers 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. Reserved 41 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation s 42 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 94 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. 10-K Summary 95 Index to Exhibits 95 Signatures 98 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ( Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( Exchange Act ). Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, assumes, may, should, could, would, foresees, forecasts, predicts, targets and commitments and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which may consist of, among other things, trend analyses and statements regarding future events, future financial performance, anticipated growth, industry prospects, our business plans and growth strategy, our strategies, expectations or plans regarding our investments, including strategic investments or future acquisitions, our beliefs or expectations regarding our competition, our intentions regarding use of future earnings, our expectations regarding attrition rates, our expectations regarding restructuring initiatives, including with respect to timing or costs, our expectations regarding investing in human capital and technology or our beliefs or expectations regarding working capital, capital expenditures, debt maintenance or commitments. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and forecasts, as well as the beliefs and assumptions of our management, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including: our ability to maintain security levels and service performance that meet the expectations of our customers, and the resources and costs required to avoid unanticipated downtime and prevent, detect and remediate performance degradation and security breaches; the expenses associated with our data centers and third-party infrastructure providers; our ability to secure additional data center capacity; our reliance on third-party hardware, software and platform providers; uncertainties regarding artificial intelligence ( AI ) technology and its integration into our product offerings; the effect of evolving domestic and foreign government regulations, including those related to the provision of services on the Internet, those related to accessing the Internet, and those addressing data privacy, cybersecurity, cross-border data transfers and import and export controls; current and potential litigation involving us or our industry, including litigation involving acquired entities and the resolution or settlement thereof; regulatory developments and regulatory investigations involving us or affecting our industry; our ability to successfully introduce new services and product features, including any efforts to expand our services; the success of our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services, technologies and intellectual property rights; our ability to complete, on a timely basis or at all, announced transactions; our ability to realize the benefits from acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures and investments, and successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate; the success of our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms; our ability to execute our business plans; our ability to continue to grow unearned revenue and remaining performance obligation; the pace of change and innovation in enterprise cloud computing services; the seasonal nature of our sales cycles; our ability to limit customer attrition and costs related to those efforts; the success of our international expansion strategy; the demands on our personnel and infrastructure resulting from significant growth in our customer base and operations, including as a result of acquisitions; our ability to preserve our workplace culture, including as a result of our decisions regarding our current and future office environments or remote work policies; our real estate and office facilities strategy and related costs and uncertainties; our dependency on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet; fluctuations in, and our ability to predict, our operating results and cash flows; the variability in our results arising from the accounting for term license revenue products; the performance and fluctuations in the fair value of our investments in complementary businesses through our strategic investment portfolio; the impact of future gains or losses from our strategic investment portfolio, including gains or losses from overall market conditions that may affect the publicly traded companies within our strategic investment portfolio; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and enhance our brands; the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results; the valuation of our deferred tax assets and the release of related valuation allowances; the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and tax laws; uncertainties affecting our ability to estimate our tax rate; uncertainties regarding our tax obligations in connection with potential jurisdictional transfers of intellectual property, including the tax rate, the timing of transfers and the value of such transferred intellectual property; uncertainties regarding the effect of general economic, business and market conditions, including inflationary pressures, general economic downturn or recession, market volatility, increasing interest rates, changes in monetary policy and the prospect of a shutdown of the U.S. federal government; the potential impact of financial institution instability; the impact of geopolitical events, including the war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war; uncertainties regarding the impact of expensing stock options and other equity awards; the sufficiency of our capital resources; our ability to execute our share repurchase program; our ability to declare future cash dividends; our ability to comply with our debt covenants and lease obligations; the impact of climate change, natural disasters and actual or threatened public health emergencies; the expected benefits of and timing of completion, as well as the expected costs and charges, of our restructuring initiatives, including, among other things, the risk that the restructuring costs and charges may be greater than we anticipate, our restructuring efforts may adversely affect our internal programs and our ability to recruit and retain skilled and motivated personnel, our restructuring efforts may be distracting to employees and management, our restructuring efforts may negatively impact our business operations and reputation with or ability to serve customers, and restructuring efforts may not generate their intended benefits to the extent or as quickly as anticipated; and our ability to achieve our aspirations, goals and projections related to our environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) initiatives, including our ability to comply with evolving legal standards and federal and state regulations concerning ESG matters. These and other risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those 3 Table of Contents expressed in our forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report for additional detail regarding factors that may cause actual results or outcomes to be different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. 4 Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Salesforce, Inc. ( Salesforce, the Company, we or our ) is a global leader in customer relationship management ( CRM ) technology that brings companies and their customers together. Founded in 1999, we enable companies of every size and industry to connect with their customers through the power of data, AI, CRM and trust. Our AI-powered Customer 360 platform unites sales, service, marketing, commerce and IT teams by connecting customer data across systems, apps and devices to create a complete view of customers. With this single source of customer truth, teams can be more responsive, productive and efficient and deliver intelligent, personalized and automated experiences across every channel. Our Customer 360 service offerings are designed to be flexible, scalable and easy to use. They can generally be configured easily, deployed rapidly and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications. We sell to businesses worldwide, primarily on a subscription basis, through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. We also enable third parties to use our platform and developer tools to create additional functionality and new applications that run on our platform, which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our service offerings. Salesforce is committed to a core set of values: trust, customer success, innovation, equality and sustainability. Foremost among these is trust, which is the foundation for everything we do. Our customers trust our technology to deliver the highest levels of security, privacy, performance, compliance and availability at scale. Customer success is at the core of our business and we align the entire company around our customers needs to promote their success and show our value. We believe in continuous innovation, enabling our customers to access the latest technology advances so they can innovate and stay ahead in their industries. Equality is a core tenet of how we run our business. We value the equality of every individual at our company and in our communities. We believe that creating a diverse workplace that reflects the communities we serve and fostering an inclusive culture where everyone feels seen, heard and valued makes us a better company. Finally, we believe the world is in a climate crisis and that sustainability, including bold climate action, is the only way forward. We are committed to ambitious climate leadership solutions, and we're bringing the full power of Salesforce to help organizations achieve net zero emissions. We believe that our values create value, and the business of business is to make the world a better place for all of our stakeholders, including stockholders, customers, employees, partners, the planet and the communities in which we work and live. Salesforce is committed to giving back to our communities, closing the inequality gap and helping businesses grow while protecting the environment for future generations. We believe we have a broad responsibility to society, and we aspire to create a framework for the ethical and humane use of technology that not only drives the success of our customers, but also upholds the basic human rights of every individual. We are committed to transparent environmental, social and governance disclosures and maintaining programs that support the success of these initiatives. Our Service Offerings We believe that every business, in every industry, has to optimize for a digital-first experience for their customers, employees and partners, leveraging data and trusted AI and CRM technology to increase efficiency, boost productivity and drive growth. Our industry-leading Customer 360 CRM platform spans sales, service, marketing, commerce, collaboration, integration, AI, analytics, automation, industries and more. Our customers can select from our integrated Customer 360 solutions for any team, in any industry and for companies of any size to deliver AI-powered, personalized engagement across every customer touchpoint with hyperscale data and automation. Customer 360 service offerings are designed to work together and include: Sales. Our Sales offering leverages data and AI to help sales teams sell faster and smarter, and to efficiently manage and automate entire sales processes. Our customers use our Sales offering to store data; monitor leads and progress; forecast opportunities; gain insights through AI and analytics; and deliver quotes, contracts and invoices. With our AI technology, sales teams can identify the best sales leads, automatically summarize highlights from meeting notes, auto-generate emails, surface customer sentiment and receive recommended next steps. Our Sales offering enables teams to work from anywhere in the office, on the go or at home and supports the changing expectations of customers in a digital-first world. Service. Our Service offering enables companies in every industry to bring all of their customer service and field service needs onto one integrated, AI-powered platform to deliver trusted, highly personalized customer support at scale. Organizations use our Service offering to connect their service agents with customers anytime and across multiple channels from the phone and email to self-service portals and social media allowing customers to engage with companies in the ways that best suit them. Our Service offering also helps our customers maximize productivity, resolve cases faster and improve customer satisfaction by automating routine tasks. With our AI technology, service teams can automatically route cases to the best service agent for the job, respond to customers with personalized, relevant answers grounded in company data and perform tasks like auto-summarizing support cases and field work orders. Our Service offering provides a field service solution that enables 5 Table of Contents companies to connect agents, dispatchers and mobile employees through one centralized platform, on which they can intelligently schedule and dispatch work as well as track and manage jobs. Platform and Other. Platform. Our Platform offering is an agile and trusted way for enterprises to innovate and deliver digital transformation at scale, enabling companies of all sizes, locations and industries to build business workflows and apps that bring them closer to their customers. It unifies data, AI, CRM, development, security and compliance in a single, comprehensive platform, facilitating fast development of trusted, AI-powered apps and automation that boost efficiency, increase productivity and save on IT costs. Einstein, our AI productivity and development platform, brings AI into Salesforce apps and workflows and offers the ability to deploy conversational, generative AI assistants that empower teams to get work done without compromising data security and privacy. The Salesforce platform and applications can be delivered rapidly and reliably to locations worldwide, giving customers more choice and control over data residency. Platform also includes AppExchange, a marketplace for Salesforce partner apps and experts, and Trailhead, our free online learning platform that allows anyone to learn in-demand Salesforce skills. Slack. Our Slack offering is an intelligent productivity platform that digitally connects people, technology and business processes together in one place. Slack improves performance by empowering users with no-code workflow automation, making search and knowledge sharing seamless and keeping teams connected and engaged as they move work forward together. With our AI technology built into Slack, organizations can easily summarize and search their customer data and essential employee knowledge so they can work smarter and make smarter decisions faster. Slack is deeply integrated into the Customer 360, supercharging productivity across sales, service and marketing teams. With Slack Sales Elevate, for example, sales teams can improve productivity and accelerate deals to close by bringing together the right people, processes and customer data from Sales Cloud within Slack. Marketing and Commerce. Marketing. Our Marketing offering enables companies to plan, personalize, automate and optimize one-to-one customer marketing journeys, connecting interactions across email, mobile, social, web and connected products to increase conversion and customer lifetime value. With our AI technology infused across the entire campaign lifecycle, companies can create precise audience segments and content using natural language prompts; identify top prospects and leads; and deliver personalized marketing journeys based on customer behavior. With our Marketing offering and Data Cloud, companies can unify and connect their customer data and engagement with our Sales, Commerce and Service offerings to give companies a single source of truth for the customer relationship. Commerce. Our Commerce offering enables brands to simplify everything from setting up a digital storefront to generating product descriptions. Our Commerce offering helps brands streamline purchases by unifying the shopping experience across every customer touchpoint, including mobile, web, social and store, and drive increased engagement, conversion, loyalty and revenue from their customers. With our AI technology, brands can provide product recommendations based on customers purchasing history; generate product descriptions and web pages; and deliver personalized shopping assistance using natural language. Our Commerce offering also delivers click-to-code tools, which provide customers with the ability to quickly build and deploy our solutions around their customers as markets, industries and customers change. Integration and Analytics. Integration. Our unified Integration, Automation and API Management offerings, powered by MuleSoft, provide the essential building blocks to deliver end-to-end, connected experiences. With MuleSoft, customers connect any data, or AI model securely and automate tasks and processes, using discoverable and reusable APIs and integrations, to transform businesses and drive faster time to value. Analytics . Our Analytics offering, including Tableau, provides customers with an advanced, end-to-end analytics solution serving a broad range of enterprise use cases, powered by trusted AI. It offers customers intelligent analytics capabilities to better see, understand and act on business data from any source, using AI models and natural language to enable them to work more efficiently, spot trends, predict outcomes, create summaries, get timely recommendations and take action from any device within the flow or work. With Data Cloud, analytics customers can quickly visualize, automate, explore and act on data from any source. Other Customer 360 Service Offerings In addition to our solution specific service offerings, we have specialized solutions that work across all offerings to support the capabilities our customers business needs. These additional service offerings include: Data Cloud. Data Cloud is our hyperscale, trusted data engine native to Salesforce. It brings a company s disconnected, enterprise data into Salesforce to deliver an actionable, comprehensive, 360-degree view of a customer. With Data Cloud, teams across an organization are empowered with access to comprehensive data and insights about customers, including customer interactions with a company s products and services, enabling organizations to deliver personalized customer experiences. 6 Table of Contents Using an open and extensible architecture that is core to the Einstein 1 Platform, Data Cloud leverages the power of Salesforce metadata to enable companies to ingest and federate data to power automation and analytics across multiple service offerings. By bringing together structured and unstructured data, Data Cloud offers fast and secure entry into AI for outcomes that are accurate, relevant and grounded with a company s data. Industries. Our industry vertical service offerings are suited to meet the needs of our customers across specific industries, such as financial services, healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing, automotive and government. They include out-of-the-box capabilities that leverage the full power of Salesforce and provide the speed and flexibility to keep up with changing times and customer demands, accelerating time to value. Salesforce Starter. We offer Salesforce Starter, an all-in-one, easy-to-use solution for small- and medium-size businesses built on our Customer 360 platform that brings marketing, sales and service together to help small and growing businesses manage customer relationships, centralize key data, and grow more efficiently. With ease of purchase through self-serve and customized out-of-the-box features, Salesforce Starter helps customers increase productivity, save time and cut costs. Business Benefits of Using Our Solutions The key advantages of our solutions include the following: an industry-leading, AI-powered integrated CRM platform for business-to-business, business-to-consumer and business-to-employee for the all-digital, work-from-anywhere world; scalable, efficient and flexible solutions for any size company or industry; a single source of truth that connects customer data across systems, apps and devices to help companies sell, service, market and conduct commerce from anywhere; the ability to unlock companies customer data across their business, see and understand their data with advanced analytics, make predictions with pervasive AI, automate tasks and personalize every interaction; the ability to infuse trusted AI in the flow of work and create AI assistants that help make the customer experience more intelligent, automated and personalized, and employees more productive; the ability to collaborate easily with customers, employees, partners and systems; modern low-code and no-code tools powered by leading edge AI, which empowers developers and business users to create digital experiences and configure and automate business processes to fit the needs of any business, accelerating time to value; the ability to accelerate adoption and drive results with purpose-built, compliant tools and processes that deliver out-of-the-box functionality, security and interoperability; and an enterprise application marketplace and a community of over 21 million Trailblazers: passionate developers, admins and experts who use Salesforce to innovate and extend the platform with thousands of partner apps. Our Business and Growth Strategy We continue to expand in the growing addressable markets across all of our service offerings. We continue to focus on several key growth levers, including driving multiple service offering adoption, increasing our penetration with enterprise and international customers and our industry-specific reach with more vertical software solutions. We orient our business strategy and invest for future growth by focusing on the following key priorities: Expand relationships with existing customers. We see significant opportunities to deepen existing customer relationships through cross-selling and upselling our service offerings. For example, we continue to focus on driving multiple service offering adoption, which provides our customers with a one-stop-shop for their front-office business technology needs. As our customers realize the benefits of our entire suite of service offerings, we aim to upgrade the customers experience with new products and features and gain additional subscriptions by targeting new functional areas and business units. Finally, we aim to expand our relationships with existing customers through our additional support offerings. Increase geographic reach. By extending our go-to-market capabilities globally, we aim to grow our business by selling to new customers in new regions. We will continue to pursue businesses of all sizes in most major markets globally. We also plan to continue to develop distribution channels through new and existing marketplaces and partners for our solutions around the globe and new go-to-market strategies. We continue to invest in our domestic and international operations and infrastructure to deliver the highest-quality service to our customers around the world. Focus on industries and new products. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative and value-driven solutions in new categories based on our existing and potential customers needs. For example, we provide out-of-the-box solutions specifically built for customers in certain industries, such as financial services, healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing and more. In addition, through direct discussions and strategic engagements with our customers, we are able to deliver the innovations and enhancements that align with the needs of our customers. As a result of customer feedback, in fiscal 2024 we introduced the Einstein 1 platform, which allows our customers to connect data to build AI-powered apps with low-code and deliver entirely new CRM experiences, and we also introduced new industry clouds, including our Automotive or Professional Services industries. 7 Table of Contents Leverage our partner ecosystem. The Customer 360 Platform enables customers, independent software vendors ( ISVs ) and third-party developers to create, test and deliver cloud-based apps. These apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange, our enterprise cloud marketplace, or sold directly by software vendors. In addition, we rely on our consulting partners to deliver technology solutions and expertise to customers, from large-scale implementations to more limited solutions that help businesses run more efficiently. We continue to work with and invest in our partner ecosystem, including these ISVs and system integrators ( SIs ), to accelerate our reach into new markets and industries. Promote strong customer adoption and reduce customer attrition. We believe that we have the people, processes and proven innovation to help companies transform successfully. Our customer success programs, including success management resources, advisory services, technical architects and business strategists, help enable and accelerate our customers digital transformations. In addition, we have free, curated resources such as Trailhead to help companies learn our systems and a community of Trailblazers who drive innovation. With these programs and resources, we aim to reduce attrition and secure renewals of existing customer subscriptions. Mergers and Acquisitions and Strategic Investments We evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies and intellectual property to complement our organic innovation and advance the development of our Customer 360 Platform. Our evaluation seeks to ensure that any potential acquisition accelerates our Customer 360 strategy, represents an attractive customer opportunity, provides a pathway to effectively monetize the acquired products and drive significant operational efficiencies and presents a clear timeline for value accretion. Our acquisitions can range in size and complexity, from those that enhance or complement existing products and accelerate development of features to large-scale acquisitions that result in new service offerings. Our goal is to prioritize the use of our balance sheet, through cash and debt, to complete acquisitions. We also manage a portfolio of strategic investments in both privately held and publicly traded companies focused primarily on enterprise cloud companies, technology startups and SIs. Our investments range from early to late stage companies, including investments made concurrent with a company s initial public offering. We invest in companies that we believe are digitally transforming their industries, improving customer experiences, helping us expand our solution ecosystem or supporting other corporate initiatives, including AI. We plan to continue making these types of strategic investments as opportunities arise that we find attractive, including investments in companies representing targeted businesses, technological initiatives and geographies. Our strategy includes growing our strategic investment portfolio, in part, by reinvesting proceeds from the sales of strategic investments. Technology, Development and Operations We primarily deliver our solutions as highly scalable cloud computing application and platform services on a multi-tenant technology architecture. Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all cus