ITEM 1. Business 2 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 17 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 ITEM 1C. C ybersecurity 27 ITEM 2. Properties 28 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 29 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 Information About our Executive Officers 29 PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 ITEM 9B. Other Information 59 ITEM 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 59 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 60 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 60 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 60 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 60 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 61 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 65 SIGNATURES 66 Consolidated Financial Information The Walt Disney Company 67 Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance and may include statements concerning, among other things, financial results; business plans (including statements regarding new services and products and future expenditures, costs and investments); future liabilities and other obligations; impairments and amortization; estimates of the financial impact of certain items, accounting treatment, events or circumstances; competition and seasonality on our businesses and results of operations; and capital allocation, including share repurchases and dividends. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, would, should, expects, plans, could, intends, target, projects, forecasts, believes, estimates, anticipates, potential, continue, assumption or judgment or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions as of the date of this report. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from expectations or results projected or implied by forward-looking statements. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments, asset acquisitions or dispositions, new or expanded business lines or cessation of certain operations), our execution of our business plans (including the content we create and intellectual properties (IP) we invest in, our pricing decisions, our cost structure and our management and other personnel decisions), our ability to quickly execute on cost rationalization while preserving revenue, the discovery of additional information or other business decisions, as well as from developments beyond the Company s control, including: the occurrence of subsequent events; deterioration in domestic and global economic conditions or failure of conditions to improve as anticipated; deterioration in or pressures from competitive conditions, including competition to create or acquire content, competition for talent and competition for advertising revenue; consumer preferences and acceptance of our content, offerings, pricing model and price increases, and corresponding subscriber additions and churn, and the market for advertising sales on our direct-to-consumer services and linear networks; health concerns and their impact on our businesses and productions; international, political or military developments; regulatory and legal developments; technological developments; labor markets and activities, including work stoppages; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; and availability of content. Such developments may further affect entertainment, travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect (or further affect, as applicable): our operations, business plans or profitability, including direct-to-consumer profitability; demand for our products and services; the performance of the Company s content; our ability to create or obtain desirable content at or under the value we assign the content; the advertising market for programming; taxation; and performance of some or all Company businesses either directly or through their impact on those who distribute our products. Additional factors include those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under the captions Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Business, in our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, including under the captions Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Unless required by federal securities laws, we assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated, to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the statements are made. 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I ITEM 1. Business The Walt Disney Company, together with the subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted (the Company), is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in three segments: Entertainment, Sports and Experiences. The terms Company , we , our and us are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted. ENTERTAINMENT The Entertainment segment generally encompasses the Company s non-sports focused global film and episodic content production and distribution activities. The lines of business within Entertainment along with their significant business activities include the following: Linear Networks Domestic: ABC Television Network (ABC Network); Disney, Freeform, FX and National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) branded television channels; and eight owned ABC television stations International: Disney, FX, National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) and Star branded general entertainment television channels outside of the U.S. A 50% equity investment in A+E Television Networks (A+E), which operates cable channels including A E, HISTORY and Lifetime Direct-to-Consumer Disney+: a global direct-to-consumer (DTC) service that primarily offers general entertainment and family programming Disney+ Hotstar: a DTC service primarily in India that offers general entertainment, family and sports programming. Hulu: a U.S. DTC service that offers general entertainment and family programming and a digital over-the-top (OTT) service that includes live linear streams of various cable and broadcast networks. See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on Hulu ownership. Content Sales/Licensing Theatrical distribution Sale/licensing of film and episodic content to television and video-on-demand (TV/VOD) services Home entertainment distribution: electronic home video licenses, video-on-demand rentals and sales of DVD/Blu-ray discs Intersegment allocation of revenues from the Experiences segment, which is meant to reflect royalties on consumer products merchandise licensing revenues generated on intellectual property (IP) created by the Entertainment segment Staging and licensing of live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world (Stage Plays) Music distribution Post-production services by Industrial Light Magic and Skywalker Sound Entertainment also includes the following activities that are reported with Content Sales/Licensing: National Geographic magazine and online business (owned 73% by the Company) A 30% ownership interest in Tata Play Limited, which operates a direct-to-home satellite distribution platform in India The significant revenues of Entertainment are as follows: Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers/subscribers for our DTC streaming services Advertising - Sales of advertising time/space Affiliate fees - Fees charged to multi-channel video programming distributors (i.e. cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital OTT service providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming to their customers. Linear Networks also generates revenues from fees charged to television stations affiliated with ABC Network. Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our films to theaters TV/VOD distribution - Licensing fees for the right to use our film and episodic content 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Home entertainment distribution - Electronic sales and rentals of film and episodic content through distributors and royalties from the licensing of physical distribution rights Other revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances, fees from licensing our IP for use in stage plays, sales of post-production services and the allocation of consumer products merchandise licensing revenues The significant expenses of Entertainment are as follows: Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Programming and production costs include the following: Amortization of capitalized production costs Amortization of the costs of licensed programming rights Subscriber-based fees for programming our Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) Participations and residual expenses Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+ Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs Depreciation and amortization Linear Networks The majority of Linear Networks revenue is derived from affiliate fees and advertising. The Company s Linear Networks businesses provide programming under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs and/or affiliated television stations that are generally based on contractually specified rates on a per subscriber basis. The amounts that we can charge for our networks are largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market for programming services. The ability to sell advertising time and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. Domestic Linear Networks ABC Network ABC Network programming is aired in the primetime, daytime, late night, news and sports dayparts . Primetime programming includes scripted series, reality programming and a variety of movies and specials. ESPN programs the sports daypart on ABC Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ABC Network distributes programming to approximately 245 local affiliated television stations and to our eight owned television stations, which collectively reach almost 100% of U.S. television households. ABC Network produces a variety of unscripted series, primetime specials, news and daytime programming. Disney Channels Branded television channels include: Disney Channel; Disney Junior; and Disney XD (collectively Disney Channels). Disney Channels air programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids ages 2 to 14 and generally feature live-action comedy series, animated programming and preschool series as well as original movies and theatrical films. Freeform Freeform is a channel targeted to viewers ages 18 to 34 that airs original and licensed television series, films and holiday programming events. FX Channels Branded television channels include: FX; FXM; and FXX (collectively FX Channels), which air a mix of original and licensed television series and films. National Geographic Channels Branded television channels include: National Geographic; Nat Geo Wild; and Nat Geo Mundo (collectively National Geographic Channels). National Geographic Channels air programming in genres such as travel, adventure, wildlife, documentary, science and history. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS The number of subscribers (in millions) for the significant domestic branded channels are as follows: Subscribers (1) Disney Channel 66 Freeform 55 FX 67 National Geographic 66 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024. Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. Domestic Television Stations The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top ten television household markets in the U.S. Our television stations collectively reach approximately 20% of U.S. television households. The stations we own are as follows: TV Station Market Television Market Ranking (1) WABC New York, NY 1 KABC Los Angeles, CA 2 WLS Chicago, IL 3 WPVI Philadelphia, PA 4 KTRK Houston, TX 6 KGO San Francisco, CA 10 WTVD Raleigh-Durham, NC 22 KFSN Fresno, CA 52 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2024 International Linear Networks International Linear Networks use content from the Company s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties. The Company operates approximately 265 general entertainment and family channels outside the U.S. in approximately 40 languages and 175 countries/territories. General Entertainment General Entertainment channels include FX, National Geographic and Star branded channels, which air a variety of scripted, reality and documentary programming. As of September 2024, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our general entertainment channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 240 million. Family Family channels include Disney Channel and Disney Junior, which air a variety of animated and live action original series and movies targeted to kids ages 2 to 14. As of September 2024, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our family channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 200 million. Equity Investments The most significant equity investment at Linear Networks is A+E. The Company s share of A+E s financial results are reported as Equity in the income of investees in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income. A+E is owned 50% by the Company and 50% by Hearst. A+E operates a variety of cable channels, including: A E which offers entertainment programming including original reality and documentary programming HISTORY which offers original unscripted series and event-driven specials Lifetime which offers programming targeted to women The number of domestic subscribers, based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024, are 58 million for each of A E, HISTORY and Lifetime and include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. A+E programming is available in approximately 200 countries and territories. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS Direct-to-Consumer Disney+, Disney+ Hotstar and Hulu are subscription services that provide video streaming of the Company s general entertainment and family programming and similar programming from third parties. Outside the U.S., Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar also include international sports programming. The services are offered individually or in various bundles, which may include ESPN+ (see Sports segment discussion), to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices. The majority of Direct-to-Consumer revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising. Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar Disney+ is a subscription-based DTC service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic branded programming, which are all top-level selections or tiles within the Disney+ interface. In the U.S., subscribers to both Disney+ and Hulu may access certain Hulu programming through a tile on Disney+. Outside the U.S., Disney+ includes a Star branded tile, which features general entertainment programming. In Latin America, Disney+ includes an ESPN branded tile, which features a variety of sports content including live events. The Company plans to launch an ESPN branded tile on Disney+ in the U.S. in early fiscal 2025. In certain Latin American countries prior to July 2024, we offered Disney+ as well as Star+, a standalone service with a variety of general entertainment and family content and live sports programming. At the end of June 2024, we merged these services into a single Disney+ product offering. As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Disney+ subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 123 million. Disney+ Hotstar is a subscription-based DTC service available in India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. Programming includes television shows, movies, sports and original series in approximately 10 languages, in addition to gaming and social features. Disney+ Hotstar has exclusive streaming rights to certain cricket programming. As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Disney+ Hotstar subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 36 million. Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar offer content from the Company s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties. The majority of Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar revenue is derived from subscription fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising. The Company offers an ad-supported Disney+ service in the U.S., Canada and select Latin American and European markets. Hulu Hulu is a domestic subscription-based DTC service with general entertainment content from the Company s various studios as well as content licensed from third parties. Hulu s revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising. Hulu offers subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) services with or without advertising in addition to a digital OTT MVPD (Live TV) service. The Live TV service is available with either of Hulu s SVOD services and includes live linear streams of various cable and broadcast networks. In addition, Hulu offers subscriptions to premium services such as Max, Cinemax, Starz and Paramount+ with Showtime, which can be added to the Hulu service. Certain programming from ABC Network, Freeform and FX Channels is also available on the Hulu SVOD service one day after the linear airing on these channels. As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Hulu subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 52 million. Content Sales/Licensing and Other The majority of Content Sales/Licensing revenue is derived from TV/VOD, theatrical and home entertainment distribution. In addition, revenue is generated from music distribution, stage plays and post-production services through Industrial Light Magic and Skywalker Sound. The Company also publishes National Geographic magazine, which is reported with Content Sales/Licensing. TV/VOD Distribution We license our content to third-party television networks, television stations and other video service providers for distribution to viewers on television or a variety of internet-connected devices, including through other DTC services. Theatrical Distribution The Company licenses full-length live-action and animated films to theaters globally. Cumulatively through September 28, 2024, the Company has released approximately 1,100 full-length live-action films and 100 full-length animated films. In the domestic and most major international markets, we generally distribute and market our films directly. In certain international markets our films are distributed by independent companies. In some territories, certain films may be exclusively distributed on our DTC streaming services. During fiscal 2025, we expect to release approximately 15 films. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred, which may result in a loss on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film. Home Entertainment Distribution The Company s film and episodic content is sold in both electronic (home video license and video-on-demand rentals) and physical (DVD and Blu-ray disc) formats. We distribute through e-tailers such as Apple and Amazon, and MVPDs, such as Comcast and DirecTV, for electronic distribution. We have licensed the rights for physical distribution to third parties who generally sell to retailers, such as Walmart and Amazon. Physical distribution of film content in the home entertainment window generally starts within three months after the theatrical release. Electronic formats are typically available approximately two to ten weeks ahead of the physical release. We also license titles to video-on-demand e-tailers within five weeks after physical home entertainment distribution. Distribution of episodic content in the home entertainment window includes electronic sales of season passes that can be purchased prior to, during and after the broadcast season with individual episodes typically available to season pass customers shortly after the initial airing of the show in each territory. Access to individual episodes is also available for electronic purchase shortly after the initial airing in each territory. Disney Theatrical Group Disney Theatrical Group develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world. Productions include The Lion King , Aladdin , Frozen and Beauty and the Beast . Disney Theatrical Group also licenses the Company s IP to Feld Entertainment, the producer of Disney On Ice . Disney Music Group The Disney Music Group encompasses all aspects of the Company s music commercialization and marketing including: recorded music (Walt Disney Records and Hollywood Records); music publishing; and concerts. Disney Music Group distributes music both physically and digitally and also licenses music throughout the world in various forms of media, including: television; print; gaming; and consumer products. Equity Investment The Company has a 30% effective interest in Tata Play Limited, which operates a direct-to-home satellite distribution platform in India. Content Production and Acquisition Produced content primarily consists of original films and episodic programs and network news and daytime/late night programming. Licensed content includes acquired episodic programming rights, movies and specials. Original content is generally produced under the following banners: Disney Branded Television; FX Productions; Lucasfilm; Marvel; National Geographic Studios; Pixar; Searchlight Pictures; Twentieth Century Studios; 20th Television; and Walt Disney Pictures. Original content is also commissioned and produced by various third-party studios. Program development is carried out in collaboration with writers, producers and creative teams. Costs to produce content are generally capitalized and allocated across Entertainment s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows. Generally, the Company has full production and distribution rights to its IP. However, Sony Pictures Entertainment has the rights to produce and distribute Spider-Man films as a result of licensing these rights from Marvel prior to the Company s acquisition of Marvel. The Company has a significant library of content spanning approximately 100 years of production history as well as acquired libraries. The library of content includes approximately 5,200 live-action film titles, 450 animated film titles and episodic series (series with four or more seasons include approximately: 75 dramas; 55 comedies; 40 non-scripted series; 15 animated series; and 10 live-action series). In addition, the library includes approximately 130 series and 80 films that were produced for initial distribution on our DTC platforms. In fiscal 2025, the Company plans to produce or commission approximately 215 episodic and film titles. The vast majority of our productions will initially be distributed on our Linear Networks and/or DTC platforms or theatrically. Programming is also produced for third parties, which typically have domestic linear distribution rights while the Company retains domestic video-on-demand and international distribution rights. We also license, acquire or produce local content for use in various countries/territories. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS Competition and Seasonality Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer compete for viewers attention and audience share primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services, social media and video games. With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs, other DTC streaming services and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards. Our television stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in local market areas. Linear Networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs. The Company s contractual agreements with MVPDs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry, including subscriber levels, and other factors may adversely affect the Company s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place. Content Sales/Licensing businesses compete with all forms of entertainment and a significant number of companies that produce and/or distribute film and episodic content, distribute products in the home entertainment market, provide pay TV/VOD services, and produce music and live theater. The operating results of Content Sales/Licensing fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods. We also compete with other media and entertainment companies, independent production companies and video-on-demand services for creative and performing talent, story properties, show concepts, scripted and other programming, advertiser support, production facilities and exhibition outlets that are essential to the success of our Entertainment businesses. Advertising revenues at Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. In general, domestic advertising revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber levels of MVPDs. SPORTS The Sports segment generally encompasses the Company s sports-focused global television and DTC video streaming content production and distribution activities. The lines of business within Sports include the following: ESPN (generally owned 80% by the Company) Domestic: Seven ESPN-branded television channels ESPN on ABC (sports programmed on the ABC Network by ESPN) ESPN+ DTC service International: ESPN-branded channels outside of the U.S. Star: Star-branded sports channels in India In February 2024, the Company, Fox Corporation and Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. announced plans to create a joint venture to offer a sports-focused DTC platform (Venu Sports) that will distribute each party s domestic sports networks, certain broadcast networks and sports streaming services. In August 2024, a motion for preliminary injunction in a matter before the District Court for the Southern District of New York was granted, enjoining the launch of Venu Sports. See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this legal matter. Further, the formation and launch of Venu Sports are subject to the finalization of definitive agreements among the parties. In early fall 2025, the Company plans to launch a new DTC offering, which will include live linear streams of the domestic ESPN-branded television channels and ESPN+. The significant revenues of Sports are as follows: Affiliate fees Advertising Subscription fees Other revenue - Fees from the following activities: pay-per-view events on ESPN+, sub-licensing of sports rights, programming ESPN on ABC and licensing the ESPN brand 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS The significant expenses of Sports are as follows: Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology 