Item 1. Business . 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors . 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments . 16 Item 2. Properties . 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings . 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures . 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data . 20 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk . 28 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 29 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . 61 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures . 61 Item 9B. Other Information . 63 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . 63 Item 11. Executive Compensation . 64 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters . 64 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . 64 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services . 65 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules . 65 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary . 69 SIGNATURES 70 i Table of Contents COMMONLY USED OR DEFINED TERMS Term Definition ASR Accelerated share repurchase ASU Accounting Standards Update ASU No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) BODFS Buy Online, Deliver From Store BOPIS Buy Online, Pick-up In Store BORIS Buy Online, Return In Store BOSS Buy Online, Ship to Store CDP The not-for-profit organization formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project CFL Compact fluorescent light Comparable sales As defined in the Results of Operations and Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD A DIFM Do-It-For-Me DIY Do-It-Yourself EH S Environmental, Health, and Safety EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ESPP Employee Stock Purchase Plan Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FIRST phone Web-enabled handheld device used by associates in our stores fiscal 2014 Fiscal year ended February 1, 2015 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2015 Fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2016 Fiscal year ended January 29, 2017 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2017 Fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2018 Fiscal year ended February 3, 2019 (includes 53 weeks) fiscal 2019 Fiscal year ended February 2, 2020 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2020 Fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 (includes 52 weeks) FSC Forest Stewardship Council GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles Interline The legacy Interline Brands business, now operating as a part of The Home Depot Pro IRS Internal Revenue Service LIBOR London interbank offered rate MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MRO Maintenance, repair, and operations NOPAT Net operating profit after tax NYSE New York Stock Exchange PLCC Private label credit card Pro Professional customer Restoration Plan Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan ROIC Return on invested capital SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended SG A Selling, general, and administrative Tax Act Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ii Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements contained herein, as well as in other filings we make with the SEC and other written and oral information we release, regarding our future performance constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services; net sales growth; comparable sales; effects of competition; implementation of store, interconnected retail, supply chain and technology initiatives; inventory and in-stock positions; state of the economy; state of the housing and home improvement markets; state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans, and consumer credit; impact of tariffs; issues related to the payment methods we accept; demand for credit offerings; management of relationships with our associates, suppliers and vendors; international trade disputes, natural disasters, public health issues (including pandemics and quarantines), and other business interruptions that could disrupt supply or delivery of, or demand for, the Company s products; continuation of share repurchase programs; net earnings performance; earnings per share; dividend targets; capital allocation and expenditures; liquidity; return on invested capital; expense leverage; stock-based compensation expense; commodity price inflation and deflation; the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us; the impact and expected outcome of investigations, inquiries, claims, and litigation; the effect of accounting charges; the effect of adopting certain accounting standards; the impact of the Tax Act and other regulatory changes; store openings and closures; financial outlook; and the integration of acquired companies into our organization and the ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of those acquisitions. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control, dependent on actions of third parties, or currently unknown to us as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this report and also as may be described from time to time in future reports we file with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our filings with the SEC. iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Introduction The Home Depot, Inc. is the world s largest home improvement retailer based on net sales for fiscal 2019 . We offer our customers a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products, lawn and garden products, and d cor products and provide a number of services, including home improvement installation services and tool and equipment rental. As of the end of fiscal 2019 , we had 2,291 The Home Depot stores located throughout the U.S. (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam), Canada, and Mexico. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. We also maintain a network of distribution and fulfillment centers, as well as a number of e-commerce websites. When we refer to The Home Depot, the Company, we, us or our in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number at that address is (770) 433-8211. Our Business Our Strategy The retail landscape has changed rapidly over the past several years, with customer expectations regarding how, when and where they want to shop constantly evolving. To meet this challenge, we have had to become more agile in our response to the changing competitive environment and customer preferences. As a result, in late 2017, we launched our transformational journey to create the One Home Depot experience, our vision of an interconnected, frictionless shopping experience that enables our customers to seamlessly blend the digital and physical worlds. We are now two years into our multi-year, approximately $11 billion accelerated investment program to create this experience. We are investing in our stores, associates, interconnected and digital experience, Pro customer experience, services business, supply chain, and product and innovation to drive value for our customers, our associates, our suppliers, and our shareholders. We are guided in our investments by a customer-back approach, focusing on the customer experience as we invest. This focus has driven investments aimed at providing an interconnected shopping experience, featuring curated and innovative product choices, personalized for the individual shopper s needs, which are then delivered in a fast and cost-efficient manner. To accomplish this, we are executing against five key strategies designed to drive growth in our business: Connect associates to customer needs Interconnected experience: connect stores to online, and online to stores Connect products and services to customer needs Connect product to shelf, site and customer Innovate our business model and value chain Taken together, these strategies are helping us to leverage our competitive advantages and create the One Home Depot experience that our customers demand. To highlight our evolution and the capabilities we have developed for the benefit of our customers along this journey, we also changed our tagline in fiscal 2019 to How Doers Get More Done , with a corresponding marketing campaign designed to show our customers the ways we are making home improvement easier, faster and more convenient for them. We discuss below many of our efforts and investments in the context of our five key strategies. Connect Associates to Customer Needs As noted above, we have been guided by a focus on our customers in our development of the One Home Depot experience, and we leverage our knowledgeable and engaged associates, guided by our culture and values, to address customer needs. We serve two primary customer groups and have developed different approaches to meet their diverse needs: DIY Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of 1 Table of Contents clinics and workshops both to share this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers. Professional Customers (or Pros ) . These customers are primarily professional renovators/remodelers, general contractors, handymen, property managers, building service contractors and specialty tradesmen, such as electricians, plumbers and painters. These customers build, renovate, remodel, repair and maintain residential properties, multifamily properties, hospitality properties and commercial facilities, including education facilities, healthcare facilities, government buildings and office buildings. We recognize the great value our Pro customers provide to their clients, and we strive to make the Pros job easier and help them grow their business. We believe that investments aimed at deepening our relationships with our Pro customers are yielding increased engagement and will continue to translate into incremental spend. As part of our continued commitment to invest in Pro customer relationships and the significant market opportunity these customers represent, we have created an enhanced Pro customer experience, both online and in-store. At the end of 2018, we announced a new consolidated, go-to-market strategy for all of our Pro initiatives, including our MRO business (formerly known as Interline), under The Home Depot Pro banner. The Home Depot Pro serves a number of business customers, including hotels, hospitals, apartment/condominium property managers, educational institutions, government agencies, commercial property managers and housing authorities. With The Home Depot Pro, Pros have access to a comprehensive offering that includes a combination of our vast store network, a best-in-class dedicated sales force, quality and affordable products from trusted brands, an extensive delivery network, and online business solutions that comprise our Pro ecosystem. Within this Pro ecosystem, we also provide specialized programs such as an expanded MRO assortment, inventory management solutions, custom product offerings, in-store Pro desk and Pro services, and enhanced credit programs. We also provide and are continuously working to improve our delivery options for Pros, including pick up in-store, direct to job site delivery, or ship-to home, to allow us to deliver when, where and how our customers demand. Online, with our B2B website, our Pros receive a personalized experience based on their business, their needs, their industry, and their purchasing behavior. Pro customers are not one-size-fits-all, and The Home Depot Pro offers the level of value-added services that our diverse Pro customers demand. Our Pro loyalty program, Pro Xtra, provides Pros with benefits related to useful business services, exclusive product offers, and a purchase monitoring tool to enable receipt lookup and job tracking of purchases across all forms of payment. We will continue to invest in the Pro customer experience to provide the services, solutions, support, and online tools they need to grow their businesses. Intersecting our DIY customers and our Pros are our DIFM customers. These customers are typically home owners who engage with Pros to complete their project or installation, instead of completing the project or installation themselves. DIFM customers can purchase a variety of installation services in our stores, online, or in their homes through in-home consultations. Our installation programs include many categories, such as flooring, cabinets and cabinet makeovers, countertops, furnaces and central air systems, and windows. We believe that changing demographics are increasing the demand for our installation services, particularly for our baby boomer customers who may have historically been DIY customers but who are now looking for someone to complete a project for them. We also believe our focus on serving the Pros who perform services for our DIFM customers will help us drive higher product sales. We help our customers finance their projects by offering PLCC products through third-party credit providers. Our PLCC program includes other benefits, such as a 365-day return policy and, for our Pros, commercial fuel rewards and extended payment terms. In fiscal 2019 , our customers opened approximately 4.8 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at the end of fiscal 2019 the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 16.7 million. PLCC sales accounted for approximately 23% of net sales in fiscal 2019 . We strive to provide an outstanding customer experience by putting customers first and taking care of our associates. Our customer experience begins with excellent customer service, and our associates are key to delivering on that experience. Our goal is to remove complexity and inefficient processes from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers and make working at The Home Depot a better experience. To this end, we have continued to focus on freight handling capabilities as part of a multi-year, end-to-end initiative to optimize how product flows from suppliers to our shelves. Among other benefits, this initiative improves on-shelf availability of products for customers while decreasing the amount of time a store associate spends locating product on the receiving dock or in overhead storage. Our overhead management application on our FIRST phones helps associates locate product stored in overhead storage quickly and accurately, saving time, improving the customer 2 Table of Contents experience, and assisting with inventory management. As part of our strategic investments, we have rolled out our new order management system, Order Up, which consolidates certain of our existing legacy systems into a simple and intuitive user interface that requires minimal training and significantly decreases associate time required to create, sell, manage and edit orders. We have also continued to leverage the enhanced labor model we launched in fiscal 2018 to better align associate activity with customer needs, shifting from a model based on the number of transactions to one that correlates to the specific volume of activity within each store down to the department level. This change allows us to better allocate our workforce to provide a best-in-class customer experience. In addition, in fiscal 2019 we expanded our in-aisle mobile learning solution to all departments to further enhance our store associates learning and development and aid them in assisting customers. This application, which is on the FIRST phone, enables associates to integrate training into their everyday workstream as well as answer questions and assist customers in real time. For our Pro sales associates, we have provided a number of tools aimed at helping them to better understand their top Pro customers. Our MyView system allows our Pro sales associates to access customer data and information, so they can proactively work with our Pro customers and determine how we can better serve them. At the end of fiscal 2019 , we employed approximately 415,700 associates, of whom approximately 29,500 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly basis. Our culture and values promote ongoing investment in our associates. To attract, reward, and retain qualified associates, we seek to maintain competitive wages in each market we serve, offer comprehensive benefits geared towards helping associates through various life experiences, and provide career growth and development opportunities that make working at The Home Depot a more rewarding experience. We also have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer service. We measure associate satisfaction and engagement regularly through associate surveys and drive enhancements based on the feedback we receive. We believe that our employee relations are very good. Interconnected Experience: Connect Stores to Online, and Online to Stores Our customers are shopping and interacting with us differently today than they did several years ago. As a result, we have taken a number of steps to provide our customers with a seamless and frictionless interconnected shopping experience across our stores, online, on the job site, and in their homes. We do not view the customer experience as a specific transaction; rather, we believe it encompasses an entire process from inspiration and know-how, to purchase and fulfillment, and to post-purchase care and support. From the inspirational point of the purchase journey to providing product know-how, we are investing in the infrastructure and processes needed to deliver the most relevant marketing messages to our customers based upon what is important for them today. Customers desire more personalized messaging, so we are focusing on connecting marketing activities with the online and in-store experiences to create a seamless series of contacts across channels. Doing this well provides tremendous value to the customer, which in turn drives positive business results. Our stores remain the hub of our business, and we are investing to improve the customer shopping experience through easier navigation and increasing the convenience and speed of checkout. For several years, our associates have used our FIRST phones to help expedite the online order checkout process, locate products in the aisles and online, and check inventory on hand. To improve the customer s experience in our stores, we have also empowered our customers with additional self-help tools, including mobile app-enabled store navigation. Our app provides store-specific maps, which allow customers to pinpoint the exact location of an item on their mobile devices. As part of our strategic investments, we have made significant progress with the implementation of our wayfinding sign and store refresh package, with over 1,400 of our U.S. stores completed by the end of fiscal 2019 . This package includes new, more intuitive signage, better lighting, and other store enhancements. In fiscal 2019, we also continued the roll out of our re-designed front end area, including reconfigured service desks, optimized layouts in all checkout areas, and expanded and enhanced self-checkout options, as well as the addition of self-service lockers at the front entrance to offer convenient pick up of online orders. We believe these investments are driving higher customer satisfaction scores. The enhanced store experience is complemented by our continued investments in our website and mobile apps to drive a more interconnected digital customer experience. Enhancements to our digital properties are critical for our increasingly interconnected customers, who research products online and check available inventory before going into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate and then make their purchase in store or online. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices, view our extended assortment and purchase products. Our investment in digital price labels for our appliance department has enabled us to incorporate ratings from the digital world into the store shopping experience, enhancing the overall customer experience in the category. 3 Table of Contents We believe that by connecting our stores to online and online to our stores, we drive sales not just in-store but also online. Our focus on improving search capabilities, site functionality, category presentation, product content, speed to checkout, and enhanced fulfillment options has yielded higher traffic, better conversion and continued sales growth. To create an enhanced customer experience, we have been expanding our use of technology, including advanced data science. We have also continued to improve our e-commerce platform with a goal of driving a more personalized customer experience, as discussed above. Connect Products and Services to Customer Needs We strive to be the number one retailer in product authority in home improvement by delivering product innovation, assortment and value and by offering a range of home improvement services. In fiscal 2019 , we continued to invest in merchandising resets in our stores to refine assortments, introduce a wide range of innovative new products to our DIY and Pro customers, and improve visual merchandising to drive a better shopping experience. At the same time, we remain focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. To help our merchandising organization keep pace with changing customer expectations and expanding desire for innovation, localization and personalization, we are investing in tools to better leverage our data and drive a deeper level of collaboration with supplier partners. As a result, we have continued to focus on enhanced merchandising information technology tools to help us to build an interconnected shopping experience that is tailored to our customers personas, shopping context, and location; ensure we have the best value in the market; and optimize our product assortments. A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 items during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary products. Our online product offerings complement our stores by serving as an extended aisle, and we offer a significantly broader product assortment through our websites, including homedepot.com; blinds.com, our online site for custom window coverings; and thecompanystore.com, our online site for textiles and d cor products. We leverage our digital platforms to drive incremental growth from new and adjacent categories like HD Home, pool and workwear. We also routinely use our merchandising tools to refine our online assortment to balance the extended choice with a more curated offering. In fiscal 2019 , we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers. Examples of these new products include the Cub Cadet Ultima ZT1 zero turn mower, the DeWalt Atomic 20V platform, ReVent bath fans, Jeld-Wen fiberglass folding patio doors, the Rust-Oleum HOME Interior Floor Coating System, Behr Ultra Scuff Defense Stain Blocking Paint Primer in One, and the Setra kitchen faucet with Kohler Konnect and voice-activated technology. During fiscal 2019 , we continued to offer value to our customers through a wide range of our proprietary and exclusive brands and products. Highlights of these offerings include Husky products, including 144-position tight-fit ratchet sets and storage solutions; Everbilt products; Hampton Bay products, including cordless stock blinds; the GE Smart Whole House water filtration system; Glacier Bay bath fixtures and toilets, including sensor faucets and the Power Flush toilet; LifeProof flooring, including rigid core vinyl plank flooring and new waterproof bamboo; Philips Smart Wi-Fi LED bulbs; Vigoro lawn care products such as landscape fabric; Werner 5-in-1 multi-position ladders; and RIDGID and Ryobi power tools. We will continue to assess our merchandising departments and product lines for opportunities to expand the assortment of products offered within The Home Depot s portfolio of proprietary and exclusive brands. We also offer a number of services for our customers. As noted above, we provide a number of special programs for our Pro customers to meet their particular needs, and for our DIY and DIFM customers, we provide a number of installation services. We also provide tool and equipment rentals at over 1,200 locations across the U.S. and Canada, providing value and convenience for both our Pro and DIY customers. As part of our strategic investment program, we are investing in more space, more tools, and better technology to improve the customer experience and continue to grow this differentiated service offering. Connect Product to Shelf, Site and Customer We continue to drive productivity and efficiency by building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain. We recognize that our customers expectations are changing rapidly and that our supply chain needs to be responsive to their expectations for how, when and where they choose to receive our products and services. As part of our One Home Depot initiative, we are investing approximately $1.2 billion in the multi-year development of our One Supply Chain network, which is designed to continue to improve productivity and connectivity across our supply chain platforms to achieve the fastest, most efficient delivery capabilities in home improvement. Our efforts are focused on ensuring product availability and increasing the speed and reliability of delivery for our customers while managing our costs, which results in higher returns for our shareholders. 4 Table of Contents We centrally forecast and replenish over 98% of our store products through sophisticated inventory management systems and utilize a network of over 200 distribution centers to serve both our stores and customers needs. This network includes multiple distribution center platforms in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico tailored to meet the needs of our stores and customers based on the types of products, location, transportation, and delivery requirements. These platforms primarily include rapid deployment centers, stocking distribution centers, bulk distribution centers, and direct fulfillment centers. As part of our investment in One Supply Chain, we have invested to further automate and mechanize our rapid deployment center network to drive efficiency and faster movement of product. We are also expanding our fulfillment network, investing in approximately 150 new fulfillment facilities to drive speed and reliability of delivery for customers and help us meet our goal of reaching 90% of the U.S. population with same or next day delivery for extended home improvement and MRO product offerings, including big and bulky goods. These facilities include additional direct fulfillment centers, which deliver product directly to customers, and market delivery operations, or MDOs, which function as local hubs to consolidate freight for dispatch to customers for the final mile of delivery, with a focus on items like appliances. We are also adding flatbed distribution centers, which handle large items like lumber that are transported on flatbed trucks, and market delivery centers, which are focused on distribution of MRO products and fast-turning store-based products. As of the end of fiscal 2019 , we have opened at least one of each of these four major types of fulfillment facilities and will continue to build out our fulfillment network over the next few years. In addition to our distribution centers, we leverage our almost 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient customer pick-up, return, and delivery fulfillment locations. Our real estate footprint provides a distinct structural and competitive advantage. For customers who shop online and wish to pick-up or return merchandise at, or have merchandise delivered from, our U.S. stores, we have fully implemented our four interconnected retail programs, BOSS, BOPIS, BODFS, and BORIS, which we believe provide us with a competitive advantage. As of the end of fiscal 2019 , approximately 50% of our U.S. online orders were picked up in the store. We als