Item 1. Business . 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors . 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments . 21 Item 2. Properties . 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings . 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures . 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . 24 Item 6. Reserved . 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk . 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures . 66 Item 9B. Other Information . 68 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections . 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation . 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters . 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . 69 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services . 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules . 69 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary . 74 SIGNATURES 75 i Table of Contents COMMONLY USED OR DEFINED TERMS Term Definition ASR Accelerated share repurchase ASU Accounting Standards Update BODFS Buy Online, Deliver From Store BOPIS Buy Online, Pickup In Store BORIS Buy Online, Return In Store BOSS Buy Online, Ship to Store CDP The not-for-profit organization formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project Comparable sales As defined in the Results of Operations section of MD A DIFM Do-It-For-Me DIY Do-It-Yourself EH S Environmental, Health, and Safety EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ESG Environmental, social, and governance ESPP Employee Stock Purchase Plan Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board fiscal 2019 Fiscal year ended February 2, 2020 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2020 Fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2021 Fiscal year ended January 30, 2022 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2022 Fiscal year ending January 29, 2023 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2023 Fiscal year ending January 28, 2024 (includes 52 weeks) GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles HD Supply HD Supply Holdings, Inc. IRS Internal Revenue Service LIBOR London interbank offered rate MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MRO Maintenance, repair, and operations NOPAT Net operating profit after tax NYSE New York Stock Exchange PLCC Private label credit card Pro Professional customer Restoration Plan Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan ROIC Return on invested capital SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended SG A Selling, general, and administrative ii Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements contained herein, as well as in other filings we make with the SEC and other written and oral information we release, regarding our performance or other events or developments in the future constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the related recovery on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition (which, among other things, may affect many of the items listed below); the demand for our products and services; net sales growth; comparable sales; the effects of competition; our brand and reputation; implementation of store, interconnected retail, supply chain and technology initiatives; inventory and in-stock positions; the state of the economy; the state of the housing and home improvement markets; the state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans, and consumer credit; impact of tariffs; issues related to the payment methods we accept; demand for credit offerings; management of relationships with our associates, potential associates, suppliers and service providers; cost and availability of labor; costs of fuel and other energy sources; international trade disputes, natural disasters, climate change, public health issues (including pandemics and quarantines, related shut-downs and other governmental orders, and similar restrictions, as well as subsequent re-openings), cybersecurity events, military conflicts or acts of war, and other business interruptions that could disrupt operation of our stores, distribution centers and other facilities, our ability to operate or access communications, financial or banking systems, or supply or delivery of, or demand for, the Company s products or services; our ability to meet ESG goals; continuation or suspension of share repurchases; net earnings performance; earnings per share; dividend targets; capital allocation and expenditures; liquidity; return on invested capital; expense leverage; stock-based compensation expense; commodity or other price inflation and deflation; our ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us; the impact and expected outcome of investigations, inquiries, claims, and litigation, including compliance with related settlements; the effect of accounting charges; the effect of adopting certain accounting standards; the impact of regulatory changes, including changes to tax laws and regulations; store openings and closures; financial outlook; and the impact of acquired companies, including HD Supply, on our organization and the ability to recognize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control, dependent on the actions of third parties, or currently unknown to us as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Par t I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this report and also as may be described from time to time in future reports we file with the SEC. You should read such information in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " in this report. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described herein, generally because we do not currently perceive them to be material. Such factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our filings with the SEC and in our other public statements. iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Introduction The Home Depot, Inc. is the world s largest home improvement retailer based on net sales for fiscal 2021. We offer our customers a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products, lawn and garden products, d cor products, and facilities maintenance, repair and operations products and provide a number of services, including home improvement installation services and tool and equipment rental. As of the end of fiscal 2021, we operated 2,317 stores located throughout the U.S. (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam), Canada, and Mexico. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. We also maintain a network of distribution and fulfillment centers, as well as a number of e-commerce websites in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. When we refer to The Home Depot, the Company, we, us or our in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number at that address is (770) 433-8211. Our Business Our Strategy The retail landscape has changed rapidly over the past several years, with customer expectations constantly evolving. In fiscal 2021, this trend continued due to the challenges created by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the broader domestic and global business environment, including supply chain disruptions, tight labor market conditions, and inflationary pressures. To navigate this dynamic environment and meet heightened levels of home improvement demand throughout the year, we had to operate with agility while also managing evolving requirements to support customer and associate safety. Our ability to operate successfully and meet the needs of our customers was due in significant part to our strategic investments over the past several years aimed at creating an interconnected, frictionless shopping experience that enables our customers to seamlessly blend the digital and physical worlds. Going forward, we will leverage the momentum of these strategic investments and continue to invest in our business in support of the following goals: We intend to provide the best customer experience in home improvement; We intend to extend our position as the low-cost provider in home improvement; and We intend to be the most efficient investor of capital in home improvement. We believe that these goals will help us grow faster than the market and deliver value to our shareholders. We are steadfast in this commitment, while also recognizing that exercising corporate responsibility and being informed by the needs of our other stakeholders, including our customers, associates, supplier partners, and communities, creates value for all stakeholders, including our shareholders. Deliver Shareholder Value We deliver on our objective to create shareholder value through our disciplined approach to capital allocation. Our capital allocation principles are as follows: First, we intend to reinvest in our business to drive growth faster than the market. Second, after meeting the needs of the business, we look to return excess cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We intend to increase our dividend as we grow earnings. In fiscal 2021, we invested $2.6 billion in capital expenditures to support an interconnected customer experience. We also focused on driving productivity throughout the business to lower our costs. The combination of reinvesting in the business to drive higher sales and driving productivity to lower costs creates what we refer to as a virtuous cycle, which has allowed us to improve the customer experience, increase our competitiveness in the market, and deliver shareholder value. In fiscal 2021, we returned approximately $22 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. We paid $7.0 billion in cash dividends and returned approximately $15.0 billion to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases in fiscal 2021. Our capital allocation is discussed further in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 1 Table of Contents Our Customers We serve two primary customer groups consumers (including both DIY and DIFM customers) and professional customers and have developed varying approaches to meet their diverse needs: DIY Customers. These customers are typically homeowners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to share this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers. Professional Customers (or Pros ) . These customers are primarily professional renovators/remodelers, general contractors, maintenance professionals, handymen, property managers, building service contractors and specialty tradesmen, such as electricians, plumbers and painters. These customers build, renovate, remodel, repair and maintain residential properties, multifamily properties, hospitality properties and commercial facilities, including education, healthcare, government, institutional, and office buildings. We have a number of initiatives to drive growth with our Pros, including a customized online experience, a dedicated sales force, an extensive delivery network, our Pro Xtra loyalty program, enhanced credit offerings and inventory management programs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we extended our reach in the MRO marketplace with our acquisition of HD Supply, a leading national distributor of MRO products to multifamily, hospitality, healthcare, and government housing facilities, among others. In fiscal 2021 we integrated our legacy Interline Brands business into HD Supply. Our MRO operations use a distribution center-based model that sells products primarily through a professional sales force and through our e-commerce platforms and print catalogs. We recognize the great value our Pros provide to their clients, and we strive to make their jobs easier and help them grow their businesses. We believe that investments aimed at deepening our relationships with our Pros are yielding increased engagement and will continue to translate into incremental spend. DIFM Customers. Intersecting our DIY customers and our Pros are our DIFM customers. These customers are typically homeowners who use Pros to complete their project or installation. Currently, we offer installation services in a variety of categories, such as flooring, cabinets and cabinet makeovers, countertops, furnaces and central air systems, and windows. DIFM customers can purchase these services in our stores, online, or in their homes through in-home consultations. In addition to serving our DIFM customer needs, we believe our focus on the Pros who perform services for these customers helps us drive higher product sales. Our Products and Services A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 items during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary products. Our online product offerings complement our stores by serving as an extended aisle, and we offer a significantly broader product assortment through our websites, including homedepot.com, our primary website; blinds.com, our online site for custom window coverings; and thecompanystore.com, our online site featuring textiles and d cor products. We believe our merchandising organization is a key competitive advantage, delivering product innovation, assortment and value, which reinforces our position as the product authority in home improvement. In fiscal 2021, we continued to invest in merchandising resets in our stores to refine assortments, optimize space productivity, introduce innovative new products to our Pros and consumers, and improve visual merchandising to drive a better shopping experience. At the same time, we remain focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. To help our merchandising organization keep pace with changing customer expectations and increasing desire for innovation, localization and personalization, we are continuing to invest in tools to better leverage our data and drive a deeper level of collaboration with supplier partners. As a result, we have continued to focus on enhanced merchandising information technology tools to help us: (1) build an interconnected shopping experience that is tailored to our customers shopping intent and location; (2) provide the best value in the market; and (3) optimize our product assortments. In light of the challenges faced due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our merchandising team has leveraged technology while working with our inventory and supply chain teams, as well as our supplier partners, to adjust our assortments, introduce alternate products where needed, and build depth in high-demand products. As cost pressures have risen in several product categories in the current environment, our tools have helped our merchandising, finance and data analytics teams as they work with our supplier partners to manage these pressures. 2 Table of Contents To complement our merchandising efforts, we offer a number of services for our customers, including installation services for our DIY and DIFM customers, as noted above. We also provide tool and equipment rentals at over 1,400 locations across the U.S. and Canada, providing value and convenience for both Pros and consumers. To improve the customer experience and continue to grow this differentiated service offering, we are continuing to invest in more locations, more tools, and better technology. Sourcing and Quality Assurance. We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers in the U.S. and around the world. During fiscal 2021, in addition to our U.S. sourcing operations, we maintained sourcing offices in Mexico, Canada, China, India, Vietnam and Europe. To ensure that suppliers adhere to our high standards of social and environmental responsibility, we also have a global responsible sourcing program. Under our supplier contracts, our suppliers are obligated to ensure that their products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local laws. These contracts also require compliance with our responsible sourcing standards, which cover a variety of expectations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency, health and safety, environment, compensation, hours of work, and prohibitions on child and forced labor. To drive accountability with our suppliers, our standard supplier buying agreement includes a factory audit right related to these standards, and we conduct factory audits and compliance visits with our suppliers of private branded and direct import products. Our 2021 Responsible Sourcing Report, available on our website at https://corporate.homedepot.com/responsibility/sourcing-responsibility, provides more information about this program. In addition, we have both quality assurance and engineering resources dedicated to establishing criteria and overseeing compliance with safety, quality and performance standards for our private branded products. Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our proprietary brands such as HDX , Husky , Hampton Bay , Home Decorators Collection , Glacier Bay , Vigoro , Everbilt and Lifeproof . The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to our business operations, retail services and products and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our business. Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. Although our patents have value, no single patent is essential to our business. We continuously assess our merchandising departments and product lines for opportunities to expand the assortment of products offered within The Home Depot s portfolio of proprietary and exclusive brands. Competition and Seasonality Our industry is highly competitive, very fragmented, and evolving. As a result, we face competition for our products and services from a variety of retailers, suppliers, distributors and manufacturers that sell products directly to their respective customer bases, and service providers, ranging from traditional brick-and-mortar, to multichannel, to exclusively online. These competitors include a number of other home improvement retailers; electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses; and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, paint stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores, MRO distributors, home d cor retailers, and other retailers, as well as with providers of home improvement services and tool and equipment rental. The internet facilitates competitive entry, price transparency, and comparison shopping, increasing the level of competition we face. We compete primarily based on customer experience, price, quality, product availability and assortment, and delivery options, both in-store and online. We also compete based on store location and appearance, presentation of merchandise, and ease of shopping experience. Furthermore, with respect to delivery options, customers are increasingly seeking faster and/or guaranteed delivery times, low-price or free shipping, and/or convenient pickup options, including curbside pickup. Our ability to be competitive on delivery and pickup times, options and costs depends on many factors, including the success of our supply chain investments, described more fully under Our Supply Chain below. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs either during our first or fourth fiscal quarter. 3 Table of Contents Interconnected Shopping Experience We continue to enhance our capabilities to provide our customers with a frictionless interconnected shopping experience across our stores, online, on the job site, and in their homes, focusing on continued investments in our website and mobile apps to enhance the digital customer experience. Digital Experience. Enhancements to our digital properties are critical for our increasingly interconnected customers, who research products online and check available inventory before going into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate and then make their purchase in store or online. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices, view our extended assortment, and purchase additional products. Our investments in a truly interconnected experience are focused on bringing together the power of our physical retail presence and the frictionless interaction of our digital capabilities. A significant majority of the traffic in our digital channels is on a mobile device. Mobile customers expect more simplicity and relevancy in their digital interactions. As a result, we have made significant investments to our digital properties to improve the overall presentation and ease of navigation for the user. We have also enhanced the shopability of an online product by including more information on the product s landing page, including related products and/or parts of a collection, and a multitude of fulfillment options. Our focus on improving search capabilities, site functionality, category presentation, product content, speed to checkout, and enhanced fulfillment options has yielded higher traffic, better conversion and continued sales growth. It has also been critical during the COVID-19 pandemic, as customers have gravitated even more to the digital environment. Further, we do not view the interconnected shopping experience as a specific transaction; rather, we believe it encompasses an entire journey from inspiration and know-how, to purchase and fulfillment, to post-purchase care and support. Customers expect more personalized messaging, so we are focusing on connecting marketing activities with the online and in-store experiences to create a seamless series of engagements across channels. From the inspirational point of the purchase journey to providing product know-how, we are continuing to invest in the infrastructure and capabilities needed to deliver the most relevant marketing messages to our customers based upon what is important for them today. Store Experience. Our stores remain the hub of our business, and we are investing to improve the customer shopping experience through easier navigation and increasing the convenience and speed of checkout. For several years, our associates have used web-enabled handheld devices we call GET phones to help expedite the online order checkout process, locate products in the aisles and online, and check inventory on hand. To improve the customer s experience in our stores, we have also empowered our customers with additional self-help tools, including mobile app-enabled store navigation. Our app provides store-specific maps, which allow customers to pinpoint the exact location of an item on their mobile devices. In fiscal 2021, we leveraged the investments made in our stores over the past several years to operate effectively in the dynamic environment we faced throughout the year. These investments include our wayfinding sign and store refresh package in all of our U.S. stores; our self-service lockers, online order storage areas at front entrances, and curbside pickup, which offer convenient pickup options for online orders; electronic shelf label capabilities; and the re-design of the front-end area, including reconfigured service desks, improved layouts in all checkout areas, and expanded and enhanced self-checkout options. We believe these investments are driving higher customer satisfaction scores, and we will continue to invest to improve the customer experience going forward. Investing in Associate Productivity . We continually strive to improve our store operations for our associates. Our goal is to remove complexity and inefficient processes from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers. To this end, we have continued to focus our efforts in such areas as optimizing product flow to decrease the amount of time a store associate spends locating product and to improve on-shelf product availability; creating a simpler order management system; expanding in-aisle, real-time mobile learning tools for our associates own development and to assist with customer questions; and using labor model tools to better align associate activity with customer needs. Investing in Safety . We are committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates. We empower trained EH S associates to evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate s role and responsibilities; and awareness, 4 Table of Contents communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and an understanding of EH S matters. We also continued to undertake a number of additional measures for the safety of our associates and customers in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Supply Chain We continue to focus on building best-in-class competitive advantages in our supply chain to be responsive to our customers expectations for how, when and where they choose to receive our products and services. As part of enhancing the interconnected shopping experience, we continue to invest in expanding our supply chain network, with the goal of achieving the fastest, most efficient and reliable delivery capabilities in home improvement. Our efforts are focused on ensuring product availability and increasing the speed and reliability of delivery for our customers while managing our costs. Despite the challenges faced by the global supply chain in fiscal 2021, our supply chain investments permitted us to continue to operate effectively and meet our customers needs. We centrally forecast and replenish the vast majority of our store products through sophisticated inventory management systems and utilize our network of distribution centers to serve both our stores and customers needs. Our supply chain includes multiple distribution center platforms in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico tailored to meet the needs of our stores and customers based on types of products, location, transportation, and delivery requirements. These platforms include rapid deployment centers, stocking distribution centers, bulk distribution centers, and direct fulfillment centers. As part of the expansion of our supply chain, we have invested to further automate and mechanize our rapid deployment center network 