Item 1. Business General Johnson Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 131,900 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. Johnson Johnson is a holding company, with operating companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the world. The Company s primary focus is products related to human health and well-being. Johnson Johnson was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1887. The Executive Committee of Johnson Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Company's two business segments: Innovative Medicine (previously referred to as Pharmaceutical) and MedTech. Within the strategic parameters provided by the Committee, senior management groups at U.S. and international operating companies are each responsible for their own strategic plans and the day-to-day operations of those companies. Each subsidiary within the business segments is, with limited exceptions, managed by residents of the country where located. Segments of business Following the completion of the separation of the Consumer Health business (Kenvue) in August 2023, the Company is now organized into two business segments: Innovative Medicine and MedTech. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular descriptions of segments and operating results under: Item 7. Management s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition of this Report; and Note 17 Segments of business and geographic areas of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Innovative Medicine The Innovative Medicine segment is focused on the following therapeutic areas: Immunology (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and psoriasis), Infectious Diseases (e.g., HIV/AIDS), Neuroscience (e.g., mood disorders, neurodegenerative disorders and schizophrenia), Oncology (e.g., prostate cancer, hematologic malignancies, lung cancer and bladder cancer), Cardiovascular and Metabolism (e.g., thrombosis, diabetes and macular degeneration) and Pulmonary Hypertension (e.g., Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension). Medicines in this segment are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers, distributors, hospitals and healthcare professionals for prescription use. Key products in the Innovative Medicine segment include: REMICADE (infliximab), a treatment for a number of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases; SIMPONI (golimumab), a subcutaneous treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis, active ankylosing spondylitis and moderately active to severely active ulcerative colitis; SIMPONI ARIA (golimumab), an intravenous treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis and active ankylosing spondylitis and active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) in people 2 years of age and older; STELARA (ustekinumab), a treatment for adults and children with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, for adults with active psoriatic arthritis, for adults with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease and treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis; TREMFYA (guselkumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis; EDURANT (rilpivirine), PREZISTA (darunavir) and PREZCOBIX/REZOLSTA (darunavir/cobicistat), antiretroviral medicines for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in combination with other antiretroviral products and SYMTUZA (darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide), a once-daily single tablet regimen for the treatment of HIV; CONCERTA (methylphenidate HCl) extended-release tablets CII, a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder in adults; INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment of schizophrenia in patients after they have been adequately treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA for at least four months; SPRAVATO (Esketamine), a nasal spray, used along with an oral antidepressant, to treat adults with treatment-resistant depression (TRD) and depressive symptoms in adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) with suicidal thoughts or actions; CARVYKTI (ciltacabtagene autoleucel), a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T-cell therapy for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma; ZYTIGA (abiraterone 2023 Annual Report 1 acetate), a treatment for patients with prostate cancer; ERLEADA (apalutamide), a next- generation androgen receptor inhibitor for the treatment of patients with prostate cancer; IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib), a treatment for certain B-cell malignancies, or blood cancers and chronic graft versus host disease; DARZALEX (daratumumab), a treatment for multiple myeloma; DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj), a treatment for multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) Amyloidosis; XARELTO (rivaroxaban), an oral anticoagulant for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which may lead to pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, and for the treatment and reduction of risk of recurrence of DVT and PE to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD), for the treatment and secondary prevention of thromboembolism in pediatric patients, and for thromboprophylaxis in pediatric patients following the Fontan procedure; OPSUMIT (macitentan) as monotherapy or in combination, indicated for the long-term treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); UPTRAVI (selexipag), the only approved oral and intravenous, selective IP receptor agonist targeting a prostacyclin pathway in PAH. Many of these medicines were developed in collaboration with strategic partners or are licensed from other companies and maintain active lifecycle development programs. MedTech The MedTech segment includes a broad portfolio of products used in the Interventional Solutions, Orthopaedics, Surgery and Vision categories. Interventional Solutions include electrophysiology products (Biosense Webster) to treat heart rhythm disorders, the heart recovery portfolio (Abiomed) which includes technologies to treat severe coronary artery disease requiring high-risk PCI or AMI cardiogenic shock, and Neurovascular care (Cerenovus) that treats hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke. The Orthopaedics portfolio (DePuy Synthes) includes products and enabling technologies that support Hips, Knees, Trauma, and Spine, Sports Other. The Surgery portfolios include advanced and general surgery technologies (Ethicon), as well as solutions that focus on breast aesthetics (Mentor), and Ear, Nose and Throat (Acclarent) procedures. Johnson Johnson Vision products include ACUVUE Brand contact lenses and TECNIS intraocular lenses for cataract surgery. These products are distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, and used predominantly in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care professionals and clinics. Geographic areas Johnson Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 131,900 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the world with the primary focus on products related to human health and well-being. The products made and sold in the international business include many of those described above under Segments of Business Innovative Medicine and MedTech. However, the principal markets, products and methods of distribution in the international business vary with the country and the culture. The products sold in international business include those developed in the U.S. and by subsidiaries abroad. Investments and activities in some countries outside the U.S. are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S. activities because the investment and commercial climate may be influenced by financial instability in international economies, restrictive economic policies and political and legal system uncertainties. Raw materials Raw materials essential to the Company's business are generally readily available from multiple sources. Where there are exceptions, the temporary unavailability of those raw materials would not likely have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the Company. Patents The Company's subsidiaries have made a practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and processes where possible. They own, or are licensed under, a significant number of patents in the U.S. and other countries relating to their products, product uses, formulations and manufacturing processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance to the Company in the operation of its businesses. The Company s subsidiaries face patent challenges from third parties, including challenges seeking to manufacture and market generic and biosimilar versions of the Company's key 2 pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. Significant legal proceedings and claims involving the Company's patent and other intellectual property are described in Note 19 Legal proceedings Intellectual property of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Sales of the Company s largest product, STELARA (ustekinumab) accounted for approximately 12.8% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal 2023. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company. Janssen Biotech, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson Johnson, owns patents specifically related to STELARA. The latest expiring United States composition of matter patent expired in 2023. As a result of settlements and other agreements with third parties, the Company does not anticipate the launch of a biosimilar version of STELARA before January 1, 2025 in the United States. The latest expiring European composition of matter patent (Supplementary Protection Certificate) expires in 2024. Sales of the Company s second largest product, collectively DARZALEX (daratumumab) and DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj), accounted for approximately 11.4% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal 2023. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company. Genmab A/S owns two patent families related to DARZALEX, and Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to those patent families. The two patent families both expire in the United States in 2029, and in Europe, compound patent protection in select countries extends to 2031/2032. Janssen Biotech, Inc. owns a separate patent portfolio related to DARZALEX FASPRO. Trademarks The Company s subsidiaries have made a practice of selling their products under trademarks and of obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries where such products are marketed. The Company considers these trademarks in the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation of its businesses. Seasonality Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, spending has typically been heavier in the fourth quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects increased spending decisions, principally for research and development activity. Competition In all of their product lines, the Company's subsidiaries compete with companies both locally and globally. Competition exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, both internally and externally sourced, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The development of new and innovative products, as well as protecting the underlying intellectual property of the Company s product portfolio, is important to the Company's success in all areas of its business. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research. Environment The Company is subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions. The Company believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company s compliance with these requirements is not expected to have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position. 2023 Annual Report 3 Regulation The Company s businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation and enforcement. The Company is subject to costly and complex U.S. and foreign laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition and business operations. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical product and medical technology industries have long been subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the U.S. FDA) continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required for U.S. FDA approval of new drugs and devices and a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends are also evident in major markets outside of the U.S. The new medical device regulatory framework and the evolving privacy, data localization, and emerging cyber security laws and regulations around the world are examples of such increased regulation. Within the U.S., an increasing number of U.S. States have enacted comprehensive privacy laws and federal regulators (e.g., the U.S. FDA, FTC and HHS) continue to stress the intersection of health and privacy as a compliance and enforcement priority. In the EU, multiple directives and laws (including NIS2, EHDS, the Data Act, the Cyber Resilience Act, and the AI Act) are rapidly changing privacy and cybersecurity compliance requirements while introducing new enforcement risks. In addition, China has introduced broad personal information protection and data security regulations, with more anticipated, thereby increasing China s scrutiny of company compliance and data transfer practices. With other jurisdictions enacting similar privacy laws, local data protection authorities will force greater accountability on the collection, access and use of personal data in the healthcare industry. These laws can also restrict transfers of data across borders, potentially impacting how data-driven health care solutions are developed and deployed globally in a compliant manner. Moreover, as a result of the broad scale release and availability of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies such as generative AI, a global trend towards more comprehensive and nuanced regulation (e.g., White House s Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence; the EU AI Act) to ensure the ethical use, privacy, and security of AI is underway that includes standards for transparency, accountability, and fairness, which will require compliance developments or enhancements. The regulatory agencies under whose purview the Company operates have administrative powers that may subject it to actions such as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, the Company s subsidiaries may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls regardless of whether it has been required or directed to. The U.S. FDA and regulatory agencies around the globe are also increasing their enforcement activities. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our pharmaceutical products or medical technologies are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending applications for marketing authorization or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. Equivalent enforcement mechanisms exist in different countries in which we conduct business. The costs of human healthcare have been and continue to be a subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the U.S., attention has been focused by states, regulatory agencies and Congress on prices, profits, overutilization and the quality and costs of healthcare generally. Laws and regulations have been enacted to require adherence to strict compliance standards and prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. There is increased focus on interactions and financial relationships between healthcare companies and healthcare providers. Various state and federal transparency laws and regulations require disclosures of payments and other transfers of value made to certain healthcare practitioners, including physicians, teaching hospitals, and certain non-physician practitioners. Federal and foreign laws governing international business practices require strict compliance with anti-bribery standards and certain prohibitions with respect to payments to any foreign government official. Payors and Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are a potent force in the marketplace, and increased attention is being paid to the impact of PBM practices on healthcare cost and access in the U.S. Our business has been and continues to be affected by federal and state legislation that alters the pricing, coverage, and reimbursement landscape. At the federal level, in August 2022, President Biden signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act 4 (IRA), which includes provisions that effectively authorize the government to establish prices for certain high-spend single-source drugs and biologics reimbursed by the Medicare program, starting in 2026 for Medicare Part D drugs and 2028 for Medicare Part B drugs. On August 29, 2023, the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services ( CMS ) published the first Selected Drug list, which includes XARELTO and STELARA as well as IMBRUVICA, which is developed in collaboration and co-commercialized in the U.S. with Pharmacyclics LLC, an AbbVie company. The Selected Drug list also included other medicines targeting disease states that are prevalent in the Medicare population. There remains uncertainty, however, regarding how the federal government will establish prices for the selected products, as the IRA specifies a ceiling price but not a minimum price. In any event, we anticipate that the selected products will be subjected to a government-established price for the Medicare population. The IRA also contains provisions that impose rebates if certain prices increase at a rate that outpaces the rate of inflation, beginning October 1, 2022, for Medicare Part D drugs and January 1, 2023, for Medicare Part B drugs. Separate IRA provisions redesign the Medicare Part D benefit in various ways, including by shifting a greater portion of costs to manufacturers within certain coverage phases and replacing the Part D coverage gap discount program with a new manufacturer discounting program. Failure to comply with IRA provisions may subject manufacturers to various penalties, including civil monetary penalties. In July 2023, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Janssen) filed litigation against the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as well as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services challenging the constitutionality of the Inflation Reduction Act s (IRA) Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program. The litigation requests a declaration that the IRA violates Janssen s rights under the First Amendment and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution and therefore that Janssen is not subject to the IRA s mandatory pricing scheme. The impact of the IRA on our business and the broader pharmaceutical industry remains uncertain, as litigation filed by Janssen and other pharmaceutical companies remains ongoing and CMS has yet to publicly announce the maximum fair price for each of the selected drugs. Additionally, we expect continued scrutiny on drug pricing and government price reporting from Congress, agencies, and other bodies at the federal and state levels, which may result in additional regulations or other mechanisms to increase pricing transparency and controls. There are a number of additional bills pending in Congress and healthcare reform proposals at the state level that would affect drug pricing, including in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This changing legal landscape has both positive and negative impacts on the U.S. healthcare industry with much remaining uncertain as to how various provisions of federal and state law, and potential modification or repeal of these laws, will ultimately affect the industry. The IRA and any other federal or state legislative change could affect the pricing and market conditions for our products. In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the U.S., by government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. Of note is the increased enforcement activity by data protection authorities in various jurisdictions, particularly in the European Union, where significant fines have been levied on companies for data breaches, violations of privacy requirements, and unlawful cross-border data transfers. In the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission has stepped up enforcement of data privacy with several significant settlements (including settlements concerning the downstream sharing of personal information and use and disclosure of personal health data) and there have been a material increase in class-action lawsuits linked to the collection and use of biometric data and use of tracking technologies. Further, the Company relies on global supply chains, and production and distribution processes, that are complex, and subject to increasing regulatory requirements that may affect sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company's products. These processes also are subject to complex and lengthy regulatory approvals. 2023 Annual Report 5 Employees and human capital management As of December 31, 2023, the number of employees was approximately: 2023 Employees 1 134,400 Full-time equivalent (FTE) positions 2 131,900 1 Employee is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. Employee data may not include full population from more recently acquired companies and individuals on long-term disability are excluded. Contingent workers, contractors and subcontractors are also excluded. 2 FTE represents the total number of full-time equivalent positions and does not reflect the total number of individual employees as some work part-time. Employees by region (in percentages) 6 Strategy The Company believes that its employees are critical to its continued success and are an essential element of its long-term strategy. Management is responsible for ensuring that its policies and processes reflect and reinforce the Company's desired corporate culture, including policies and processes related to strategy, risk management, and ethics and compliance. The Company s human capital management strategy is built on three fundamental focus areas: Attracting and recruiting the best talent Developing and retaining talent Empowering and inspiring talent Underpinning these focus areas are ongoing efforts to cultivate and foster a culture built on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), innovation, health, well-being and safety, where the Company's employees are encouraged to succeed both professionally and personally while helping the Company achieve its business goals. Culture and employee engagement At the Company, employees are guided by Our Credo which sets forth the Company's responsibilities to patients, consumers, customers, healthcare professionals, employees, communities and shareholders. Employees worldwide must adhere to the Company s Code of Business Conduct which sets basic requirements and serves as a foundation for the Company policies, procedures and guidelines, all of which provide additional guidance on expected employee behaviors in every market where it operates. The Company conducts global surveys that offer its employees the ability to provide feedback and valuable insight to help address potential human resources risks and identify opportunities to improve. In 2023, 94% of global employees across 76 countries participated in Our Credo Survey which was offered in 36 languages. Growth and development To lead in the changing healthcare landscape, it is crucial that the Company continue to attract and retain top talent. In 2023, the Company's voluntary turnover rate was 7%. The Company believes that its employees must be equipped with the right knowledge and skills and be provided with opportunities to grow and develop in their careers. Accordingly, professional development programs and educational resources are available to all employees. The Company's objective is to foster a learning culture that helps shape each person s unique career path while creating a robust pipeline of talent to deliver on the Company s long-term strategies. In furtherance of this objective, the Company deploys a global approach to ensure development is for everyone, regardless of where they are on their career journey. To prioritize learning, the Company recently held Johnson Johnson's first Global Learning Day. Employees were encouraged to set aside a full day to explore skill-building courses across five areas: leadership, business skills, digital upskilling, DEI, and well-being, on J J Learn, the Company's new learning platform. Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) The Company is committed to workplace diversity and to cultivating, fostering, and advancing a culture of equity and inclusion. The Company s evidenced-based global enterprise Diversity, Equity and Inclusion strategy recognizes how DEI accelerates the Company's ability to meet the changing needs of the communities the Company serves in, as outlined in Our Credo. The Company s DEI Vision is: Be yourself, change the world . The Company's DEI Mission is: Make diversity, equity and inclusion how we work everyday . The Company's enterprise DEI Strategy is aligned to the DEI Vision and Mission and rests on four core pillars: Build a workforce of individuals with diverse backgrounds, cultures, abilities and perspectives Foster a culture of inclusion where every individual belongs Transform talent and business processes to achieve equitable opportunities for all Drive innovation and growth with our business to serve diverse markets around the world The Company's DEI strategy is guided by internal and external insights, global best practices and continual employee feedback and recognizes that while diversity changes by location, inclusion is the same everywhere. 2023 Annual Report 7 Compensation and benefits As part of the Company's total rewards philosophy, the Company offers competitive compensation and benefits to attract and retain top talent. The Company is committed to fairness and equitable treatment in its compensation and benefits for employees at all levels. The Company observes legal minimum wage provisions and exceeds them where possible. The Company's total rewards offerings include an array of programs to support its employees' well-being, including annual performance incentive opportunities, pension and retirement savings programs, health and welfare benefits, paid time off, leave programs, flexible work schedules and employee assistance programs. In recognition of the Company s commitment to help employees balance their personal and professional responsibilities, the Company enhanced its caregiver, bereavement, and volunteer paid leave benefits, effective July 2023. Health, wellness and safety The Company s investment in employee health, well-being and safety is built on its conviction that advancing health for humanity starts with advancing the health of its employees. With the right awareness, focus, practices and tools, the Company ensures th