Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 36 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 Item 6. [Reserved] 40 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 113 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B. Other Information 114 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 114 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 116 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 116 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 116 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 117 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 118 2 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other publicly available documents include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts, and generally can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "could," "aim," "seek," "believe," "will," "expect," "project," "estimate," "intend," "target," "anticipate," "plan," "continue," or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs. Forward-looking statements inherently involve many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current plans and expectations, expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, we can give no assurance that any expectation or belief will result or will be achieved or accomplished. Investors therefore should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The following include some but not all of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ from those anticipated: the significant costs and uncertainties in the pharmaceutical research and development process, including with respect to the timing and process of obtaining regulatory approvals; the impact and uncertain outcome of acquisitions and business development transactions and related costs; intense competition affecting our products, pipeline or industry; market uptake of launched products and indications; continued pricing pressures and the impact of actions of governmental and private payers affecting pricing of, reimbursement for, and patient access to pharmaceuticals, or reporting obligations related thereto; safety or efficacy concerns associated with our products; dependence on relatively few products or product classes for a significant percentage of our total revenue and an increasingly consolidated supply chain; the expiration of intellectual property protection for certain of our products and competition from generic and biosimilar products, and risks from the proliferation of counterfeit or illegally compounded products; our ability to protect and enforce patents and other intellectual property and changes in patent law or regulations related to data package exclusivity; information technology system inadequacies, inadequate controls or procedures, security breaches, or operating failures; unauthorized access, disclosure, misappropriation, or compromise of confidential information or other data stored in our information technology systems, networks, and facilities, or those of third parties with whom we share our data and violations of data protection laws or regulations; issues with product supply and regulatory approvals stemming from manufacturing difficulties, disruptions, or shortages, including as a result of unpredictability and variability in demand, labor shortages, third-party performance, quality, cyber-attacks, or regulatory actions related to our and third-party facilities; reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements; the use of artificial intelligence or other emerging technologies in various facets of our operations may exacerbate competitive, regulatory, litigation, cybersecurity and other risks; the impact of global macroeconomic conditions, including uneven economic growth or downturns or uncertainty, trade disruptions, international tension, conflicts, regional dependencies, or other costs, uncertainties and risks related to engaging in business globally; devaluations in foreign currency exchange rates or changes in interest rates and inflation; litigation, investigations, or other similar proceedings involving past, current, or future products or activities; changes in tax law and regulation, tax rates, or events that differ from our assumptions related to tax positions; regulatory changes and developments; 3 regulatory actions regarding our operations and products; regulatory compliance problems or government investigations; actual or perceived deviation from environmental-, social-, or governance-related requirements or expectations; asset impairments and restructuring charges; and changes in accounting and reporting standards. Investors should also carefully read the factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain risks that could, among other things, cause our actual results to differ from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the risks described above and under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risk factors and cautionary statements included in this Annual Report. Except as is required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this Annual Report. 4 Part I Item 1. Business Eli Lilly and Company (referred to as the company, Lilly, we, or us) was incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly. We discover, develop, manufacture, and market products in a single business segment human pharmaceutical products. Our purpose is to unite caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. Most of the products that we sell today were discovered or developed by our own scientists, and our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative medicines. We manufacture and distribute our products through facilities in the United States (U.S.), including Puerto Rico, and in Europe and Asia. Our products are sold in approximately 105 countries. Products Our products include: Therapeutic area Products Certain Indications Diabetes, Obesity and Other Cardiometabolic products Basaglar In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, a long-acting human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes. Humalog , Humalog Mix 75/25, Humalog U-100, Humalog U-200, Humalog Mix 50/50, insulin lispro, insulin lispro protamine, and insulin lispro mix 75/25 Human insulin analogs for the treatment of diabetes. Humulin , Humulin 70/30, Humulin N, Humulin R, and Humulin U-500 Human insulins of recombinant DNA origin for the treatment of diabetes. Jardiance In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes; to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease; to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalizations for heart failure in adults; and to reduce the risk of sustained decline in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), end-stage kidney disease, cardiovascular death and hospitalization in adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD) at risk of progression. Mounjaro A glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist, for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes in combination with diet and exercise to improve glycemic control. Trulicit y For the treatment of type 2 diabetes in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older; and to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. Zepbound For the treatment of adults with obesity or overweight with weight-related comorbidities as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity (marketed under Mounjaro in the European Union (EU) and in various other markets outside the U.S.). 5 Therapeutic area Products Certain Indications Oncology products Alimta For the first-line treatment, in combination with two other agents, of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for patients with non-squamous cell histology and no epidermal growth factor receptor or anaplastic lymphoma kinase genomic tumor aberrations; for the first-line treatment, in combination with another agent, of advanced non-squamous NSCLC; for the second-line treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC; as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC in patients whose disease has not progressed immediately following chemotherapy treatment; and in combination with another agent for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma. Cyramza For use as monotherapy or in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric cancer or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic NSCLC; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer; as a monotherapy as a second-line treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma; and in combination with another agent as a first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC with activating epidermal growth factor receptor mutations. Erbitux Indicated both as monotherapy and in combination with another agent for the treatment of certain types of colorectal cancers; and as monotherapy, in combination with chemotherapy, or in combination with radiation therapy for the treatment of certain types of head and neck cancers. Jaypirca For the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) after at least two lines of systemic therapy, including a BTK inhibitor; and for the treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma who have received at least two prior lines of therapy, including a BTK inhibitor and a BCL-2 inhibitor. Retevmo For the treatment of metastatic NSCLC with a rearranged during transfection (RET) gene fusion in adult patients; for the treatment of advanced metastatic medullary thyroid cancer with a RET mutation who require systemic therapy in adult and pediatric patients; for the treatment of advanced or metastatic thyroid cancer with a RET gene fusion in adult and pediatric patients who require systemic therapy and are radioactive iodine-refractory; and for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors with a RET gene fusion who have progressed on or following prior systemic treatment or who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options. Tyvyt In collaboration with Innovent Biologics, Inc., for the treatment of relapsed or refractory classic Hodgkin's lymphoma; for the first-line treatment of non-squamous NSCLC in combination with Alimta and another agent; for the first-line treatment of squamous NSCLC in combination with two other agents; for the first-line treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma in combination with another agent; for the first-line treatment of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in combination with certain other agents; for the first-line treatment of gastric cancer in combination with two other agents; and, in combination with two other agents, for patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutated non-squamous NSCLC that progressed after EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy, each in China. Verzenio For use as monotherapy or in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of HR+, HER2- metastatic breast cancer and in combination with endocrine therapy for treatment of HR+, HER2-, node positive, early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence. 6 Therapeutic area Products Certain Indications Immunology products Ebglyss For the treatment of adult and adolescent patients 12 years or older with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in Japan and, in collaboration with Almirall S.A., in Europe. Olumiant In collaboration with Incyte Corporation, for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis after treatment with one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers that did not work well enough or could not be tolerated; moderate to severe atopic dermatitis; severe alopecia areata; and for the treatment of hospitalized adults with COVID-19 who require supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Omvoh TM For the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis. Taltz For the treatment of adults and pediatric patients aged 6 years or older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis; adults with active psoriatic arthritis; adults with ankylosing spondylitis; and adults with active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis. Neuroscience products Cymbalta For the treatment of major depressive disorder; diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain; generalized anxiety disorder; fibromyalgia; and chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic low back pain or chronic pain due to osteoarthritis. Emgality For migraine prevention and the treatment of episodic cluster headache in adults. Other products and therapies Cialis For the treatment of erectile dysfunction and benign prostatic hyperplasia. Forteo For the treatment of osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women at high risk for broken bones or fracture and for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women. Marketing and Distribution We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local customer needs and comply with local regulations. U.S. We promote our major products in the U.S. through sales representatives who engage with physicians and other healthcare professionals. We also educate healthcare providers about our products in various other ways, including promoting in online channels, distributing literature and samples of certain products to physicians, and exhibiting at medical meetings. In addition, we advertise certain products directly to consumers in the U.S., and we maintain websites and other media channels (e.g., social media) with information about our major products. We supplement our employee sales force with contract sales organizations to leverage our resources and reach additional patients in need. Our account managers service wholesalers, pharmacy benefit managers, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations, government and long-term care institutions, hospitals, and certain retail pharmacies. We enter into arrangements with these organizations to provide discounts or rebates on our products. In the U.S., most of our products are distributed through wholesalers that serve pharmacies, physicians and other healthcare professionals, and hospitals. In 2023, 2022, and 2021, three wholesale distributors in the U.S. McKesson Corporation, Cencora, Inc. (formerly AmerisourceBergen Corporation), and Cardinal Health, Inc. each accounted for a significant percentage of our consolidated revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenue in any of these years. For additional information, see Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 2: Revenue." 7 Outside the U.S. The products we market and their distribution vary from country to country. Outside the U.S., we promote our products to healthcare providers through sales representatives and other channels. In most countries in which we operate, we maintain our own sales organizations, but in some countries we market our products through third parties, some of which we have engaged through distribution and promotion arrangements. Marketing Collaborations Certain of our products are marketed in arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies. For example, we and Boehringer Ingelheim have a global agreement to develop and commercialize a portfolio of diabetes products, including Trajenta , Jentadueto , Jardiance, Glyxambi , Synjardy , Trijardy XR, Basaglar, and Rezvoglar . For additional information, see Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4: Collaborations and Other Arrangements." Competition Our products compete globally with many other pharmaceutical products in highly competitive markets. Important competitive factors include effectiveness, safety, and ease of use; formulary placement, price, payer coverage and reimbursement rates, and demonstrated cost-effectiveness; regulatory approvals; marketing effectiveness; and research and development of new products, processes, modalities, and uses. Early market entry and rapid patient access can also be important to achieve product acceptance and success. Most new products or uses that we introduce must compete with other branded, biosimilar, or generic products already on the market or that are later developed by competitors. When competitors introduce new products, uses, or delivery systems with therapeutic or cost advantages, including by developing new modalities, our products become subject to decreased sales volumes, progressive price reductions, or both. We believe our long-term competitive success depends on discovering and developing (either alone or in collaboration with others) or acquiring innovative, cost-effective products that provide improved outcomes for patients and deliver value to payers, and continuously improving the productivity of our operations in a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that our efforts will result in commercially successful products, and it is possible that our products will be, or will become, uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products or uses developed by our competitors. Generic Pharmaceuticals and Biosimilars Generic pharmaceuticals and biosimilars can pose major competitive challenges to our business. In most major jurisdictions, the regulatory approval process for pharmaceuticals (other than biological products (biologics)) exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic manufacturers generally invest far fewer resources than we do for our branded products in research and development and can price their products significantly lower than our branded products. Accordingly, when a branded non-biologic pharmaceutical loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product, which can result in the loss of a significant portion of the branded product's revenue in a very short period of time. Moreover, governments in some countries leverage generic entrants to drive price concessions through the utilization of volume-based procurement bidding and other measures. Further, public and private payers typically encourage the use of generics as alternatives to branded products. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generics that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a branded product. Where substitution is mandatory, it must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In certain countries, intellectual property protection is weak, and we must compete with generic versions of our products at or relatively shortly after launch. In addition, competition for our biologics, which constitute a substantial portion of our products and pipeline, may be affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilars. A biosimilar is a subsequent version of an approved innovator biologic that, due to its analytical and clinical similarity to the innovator biologic, may be approved based on an abbreviated data package that relies in part on the full testing required of the innovator biologic. Globally, most governments have developed abbreviated regulatory pathways to approve biosimilars as follow-ons to innovator biologics, including the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (the BPCIA) in 8 the U.S. A number of biosimilars have been licensed under the BPCIA, as well as in Europe and Japan. Regulatory interpretation of important aspects of the laws regulating biosimilars continues to evolve, and therefore the impact of these laws on our business remains subject to substantial uncertainty. For example, the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for the innovator biologic in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biologic products will depend on a number of regulatory and marketplace factors that are still developing. Biosimilars may present both competitive challenges and opportunities. While competitors have developed biosimilars that compete with our products, we have developed our own biosimilar and may develop others in the future. U.S. Private Sector Dynamics In the U.S. private sector, consolidation and integration among healthcare organizations significantly affects the competitive marketplace for pharmaceuticals. Health plans, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, wholesalers, pharmacies, and other supply chain entities have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their market power and importance. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, typically maintain formularies that specify coverage (the conditions under which drugs are included on a plan's formulary) and reimbursement (the associated out-of-pocket cost to the consumer) to control costs by negotiating discounts or rebates in exchange for formulary inclusion and placement. Formulary placement can lead to reduced usage of a product for the relevant patient population due to coverage restrictions, such as prior authorizations and formulary exclusions, or due to reimbursement limitations that result in higher consumer out-of-pocket cost, such as non-preferred co-pay tiers, increased co-insurance levels, and higher deductibles. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies face increased pressure in negotiations, and compete fiercely for formulary placement, not only on the basis of product attributes such as efficacy, safety profile, or patient ease of use, but also by providing rebates or other concessions. As payers and pharmaceutical companies continue to negotiate formulary placement and rebates, value-based agreements, where rebates may be based on achievement (or not) of specified outcomes, are another increasingly prevalent tool. Rebates and net cost are increasingly important factors in formulary decisions, particularly in treatment areas in which the payer has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. These pressures have negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our consolidated results of operations. In addition to formulary placement, changes in insurance designs continue to drive greater consumer cost-sharing through high deductible plans, higher co-insurance, or co-pays, including increased utilization of co-pay accumulator adjustment or maximization programs. Supply chain entities have also increasingly imposed utilization management tools to favor the use of generic products or otherwise limit access to our products. For additional information on pricing and reimbursement for our pharmaceutical products, see " Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access U.S." Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights Overview Intellectual property protection is critical to our ability to successfully commercialize our life sciences innovations and invest in the search for new medicines and uses. Loss of effective patent protection for pharmaceuticals, especially for non-biologic products, typically results in the loss of effective market exclusivity for the product, often leading to a severe and rapid decline in revenues for the product. We own, have applied for, or are licensed under, a large number of patents in the U.S. and many other countries relating to products, product uses, formulations, and manufacturing processes. In addition, for some products we have effective intellectual property protection in the form of data protection under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. The patent protection anticipated to be of most relevance to pharmaceuticals is provided by patents claiming the active ingredient (the compound patent) for our products, particularly those in major markets such as the U.S., major European countries, and Japan. In general, patents in each relevant country last for a period of 20 years from their filing date, which is often years prior to the launch of a commercial product. Further patent term adjustments and restorations may extend the original patent term: Patent term adjustment is available to all U.S. patent applicants to provide relief in the event that a patent grant is delayed during examination by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Patent term restoration for a single patent for a pharmaceutical product is provided to U.S. patent holders to compensate for a portion of the time invested in clinical trials and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) review process. There is a five-year cap on any restoration, and no patent's 9 expiration date may be extended beyond 14 years from FDA approval. Some countries outside the U.S. similarly offer forms of patent term restoration. For example, Supplementary Protection Certificates are available to extend the life of a European patent up to an additional five years (subject to a 15-year cap from European Medicines Agency (EMA) approval) and in Japan patent terms can be extended up to five years. In some cases, the innovator company may retain exclusivity despite approval of the generic, biosimilar, or other follow-on versions of a new medicine beyond the expiration of the compound patent through market dynamics and challenges, later-expiring patents on manufacturing processes, methods of use or formulations, or data protection that may be available under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. The primary forms of data protection are as follows: Data package protection generally prohibits other manufacturers from submitting regulatory applications for marketing approval in reliance on the innovator company's regulatory submission data for the drug. The base period is generally five years in the U.S. (12 years for new biologics under the BPCIA, subject to certain conditions), effectively 10 years in Europe, and eight years in Japan. The period begins on the date of product approval and runs concurrently with the patent term for any relevant patents. In the U.S., the FDA has the authority to grant additional data protection for approved drugs where the sponsor conducts specified testing in pediatric populations within a specified time period. If granted, this "pediatric exclusivity" provides an additional six months of exclusivity, which is added to the term of data protection, orphan drug exclusivity and, for products other than biologics, to the term of any relevant and non-expired patents. A specific use of a drug or biologic can receive "orphan" designation in the U.S. if it is intended to treat a disease or condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S., or where it is not reasonably expected to recover development and marketing costs through U.S. sales. Orphan designation entitles a particular use of the drug to seven years of market exclusivity, which runs in parallel with any applicable patents. Outside the major markets, the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property protection for pharmaceuticals vary widely. International and U.S. free trade agreements like the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs Agreement) administered by the World Trade Organization provide global protection of certain intellectual property rights. But in a number of markets we are unable to patent our products or to enforce the patents that we receive for our products. Further, many developing countries, and some developed countries, do not provide effective data package protection even though it is specified in the TRIPs Agreement. Our Intellectual Property Portfolio We consider intellectual property protection for certain products, processes, uses, and formulations to be i