Item 1. Business 23 Item 1A. Risk factors 37 Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments 37 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine safety disclosures 38 - Information about our executive officers PART II 42 Item 5. Market for registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 43 Item 6. Reserved 44 Item 7. Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 58 Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data 112 Item 9. Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 112 Item 9A. Controls and procedures 112 Item 9B. Other Information PART III 114 Item 10. Directors, executive officers and corporate governance 114 Item 11. Executive compensation 114 Item 12. Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 114 Item 13. Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 114 Item 14. Principal accountant fees and services PART IV 116 Item 15. Exhibits and financial statement schedules 116 Item 16. Form 10-K summary MASTERCARD 2021 FORM 10-K 3 In this Report on Form 10-K ( Report ), references to the Company, Mastercard, we, us or our refer to the business conducted by Mastercard Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, including our operating subsidiary, Mastercard International Incorporated, and to the Mastercard brand. Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts may be forward-looking statements. When used in this Report, the words believe , expect , could , may , would , will , trend and similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to the Company s future prospects, developments and business strategies. Many factors and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control, influence whether any forward-looking statements can or will be achieved. Any one of those factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in writing in any forward-looking statements made by Mastercard or on its behalf, including, but not limited to, the following factors: regulation directly related to the payments industry (including regulatory, legislative and litigation activity with respect to interchange rates and surcharging) the impact of preferential or protective government actions regulation of privacy, data, security and the digital economy regulation that directly or indirectly applies to us based on our participation in the global payments industry (including anti-money laundering, counter financing of terrorism, economic sanctions and anti-corruption, account-based payments systems, and issuer practice regulation) the impact of changes in tax laws, as well as regulations and interpretations of such laws or challenges to our tax positions potential or incurred liability and limitations on business related to any litigation or litigation settlements the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response the impact of competition in the global payments industry (including disintermediation and pricing pressure) the challenges relating to rapid technological developments and changes the challenges relating to operating a real-time account-based payments system and to working with new customers and end users the impact of information security incidents, account data breaches or service disruptions issues related to our relationships with our stakeholders (including loss of substantial business from significant customers, competitor relationships with our customers, banking industry consolidation, merchants continued focus on acceptance costs and unique risks from our work with governments) exposure to loss or illiquidity due to our role as guarantor and other contractual obligations the impact of global economic, political, financial and societal events and conditions, including adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls reputational impact, including impact related to brand perception and lack of visibility of our brands in products and services the inability to attract, hire and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, or maintain our corporate culture issues related to acquisition integration, strategic investments and entry into new businesses issues related to our Class A common stock and corporate governance structure Please see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A for a complete discussion of these risk factors. We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update our forward-looking statements. 4 MASTERCARD 2021 FORM 10-K PART I Item 1. Business