Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 25 Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results 38 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 39 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 40 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 40 Executive Officers of the Registrant 41 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6. [Reserved] 43 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 71 (a) Financial Statements 71 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 75 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 127 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 129 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 129 Management s Report 129 Item 9B. Other Information 130 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 130 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 131 Item 11. Executive Compensation 131 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 132 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 132 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 132 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 133 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 137 Signatures 138 Table of C o ntent s PART I Item 1. Business. Merck Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, including biologic therapies, vaccines and animal health products. The Company s operations are principally managed on a product basis and include two operating segments, Pharmaceutical and Animal Health, both of which are reportable segments. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, distributors and government entities. The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceutical and vaccine products, as well as health management solutions and services, for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock and companion animal species. The Company also offers an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. The Company sells its products to veterinarians, distributors, animal producers, farmers and pet owners. On June 2, 2021, Merck completed the spin-off (the Spin-Off) of products from its women s health, biosimilars and established brands businesses into a new, independent, publicly traded company named Organon Co. (Organon) through a distribution of Organon s publicly traded stock to Company shareholders. The established brands included in the transaction consisted of dermatology, non-opioid pain management, respiratory, select cardiovascular products, as well as the rest of Merck s diversified brands franchise. All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners. Product Sales Total Company sales, including sales of the Company s top pharmaceutical products, as well as sales of animal health products, were as follows: ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Total Sales $ 60,115 $ 59,283 $ 48,704 Pharmaceutical 53,583 52,005 42,754 Keytruda 25,011 20,937 17,186 Gardasil/Gardasil 9 8,886 6,897 5,673 Januvia/Janumet 3,366 4,513 5,288 ProQuad/M-M-R II /Varivax 2,368 2,241 2,135 Bridion 1,842 1,685 1,532 Lagevrio 1,428 5,684 952 Alliance revenue - Lynparza (1) 1,199 1,116 989 Alliance revenue - Lenvima (1) 960 876 704 RotaTeq 769 783 807 Vaxneuvance 665 170 3 Animal Health 5,625 5,550 5,568 Livestock 3,337 3,300 3,295 Companion Animal 2,288 2,250 2,273 Other Revenues (2) 907 1,728 382 (1) Alliance revenue represents Merck s share of profits, which are product sales net of cost of sales and commercialization costs. (2) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities, as well as revenue from third-party manufacturing arrangements. 1 Table of C o ntent s Pharmaceutical The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines. Certain of the products within the Company s franchises are as follows: Oncology Keytruda is an anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy that has been approved as monotherapy for the treatment of certain patients with cervical cancer, classical Hodgkin lymphoma, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, esophageal or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) carcinoma, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), melanoma, Merkel cell carcinoma, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) solid tumors (including MSI-H/dMMR colorectal cancer and endometrial carcinoma), non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) solid tumors, and urothelial cancer including non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. Keytruda is also approved as monotherapy for the adjuvant treatment of certain patients with melanoma, and for certain patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) post-surgery. Keytruda is approved for adjuvant treatment following resection and platinum-based chemotherapy for certain patients with NSCLC. Additionally, Keytruda is approved for patients with certain types of resectable NSCLC in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. Keytruda is also approved for patients with high-risk early stage triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. In addition, Keytruda is approved in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of certain patients with advanced NSCLC, in combination with chemotherapy for certain types of advanced biliary tract cancer, in combination with chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab for advanced cervical cancer, in combination with chemotherapy for advanced esophageal cancer, in combination with trastuzumab and chemotherapy for certain patients with advanced human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma with PD-L1 (CPS 1) and in combination with chemotherapy for advanced HER2-negative gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma, in combination with chemotherapy for HNSCC, in combination with chemotherapy for advanced TNBC, in combination with axitinib for advanced RCC, in combination with Lenvima (lenvatinib) for patients with advanced RCC or certain types of advanced endometrial carcinoma, and in combination with enfortumab vedotin for adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer. Welireg (belzutifan) is a medication for the treatment of adult patients with certain von Hippel-Lindau disease-associated tumors and for the treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC following a PD-1 or programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitor and a vascular endothelial growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. In addition, the Company recognizes alliance revenue related to sales of Lynparza (olaparib), an oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, for certain types of advanced or recurrent ovarian, early or metastatic breast, metastatic pancreatic, and metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancers; alliance revenue related to sales of Lenvima, an oral receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for certain types of thyroid cancer, RCC, HCC, in combination with everolimus for certain patients with advanced RCC, and in combination with Keytruda for certain patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma or advanced RCC; and alliance revenue related to Reblozyl (luspatercept-aamt) for the treatment of certain types of anemia. Vaccines Gardasil (Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant)/ Gardasil 9 (Human Papillomavirus 9-valent Vaccine, Recombinant), vaccines to help prevent certain cancers and diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV); ProQuad (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M M R II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella; Varivax (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella); RotaTeq (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; Vaxneuvance (Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine), a vaccine to help prevent invasive pneumococcal disease in individuals 6 weeks of age and older; Pneumovax 23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease; and Vaqta (hepatitis A vaccine, inactivated) indicated for the prevention of disease caused by hepatitis A virus in persons 12 months of age and older. Hospital Acute Care Bridion (sugammadex), a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery; Prevymis (letermovir) for the prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and disease, or of CMV disease, in certain high risk adult recipients of an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant or of a kidney transplant, respectively; Dificid (fidaxomicin) for the treatment of C. difficile -associated diarrhea; Zerbaxa (ceftolozane and tazobactam) for injection, a combination antibacterial and beta-lactamase inhibitor for the treatment of certain 2 Table of C o ntent s bacterial infections; Noxafil (posaconazole), an antifungal agent for the prevention of certain invasive fungal infections; and Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin) for injection, an antibiotic for the treatment of certain bacterial infections. Cardiovascular Adempas (riociguat), a cardiovascular drug for the treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension or pulmonary arterial hypertension in certain patients; Verquvo (vericiguat), a medicine to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and heart failure hospitalization following a hospitalization for heart failure or need for outpatient intravenous diuretics in certain adults with symptomatic chronic heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. Virology Lagevrio , an investigational oral antiviral COVID-19 medicine available in the U.S. under Emergency Use Authorization (EUA); Isentress/Isentress HD (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. Neuroscience Belsomra (suvorexant), an orexin receptor antagonist, indicated for the treatment of insomnia, characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. Immunology Simponi (golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases; and Remicade (infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, both of which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and T rkiye. Diabetes Januvia (sitagliptin) and Janumet (sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Animal Health The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceuticals, vaccines and health management solutions and services, as well as an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. Principal products in this segment include: Livestock Products Nuflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine; Bovilis / Vista vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle; Banamine (Flunixin meglumine) bovine and swine anti-inflammatory; Estrumate (cloprostenol sodium) for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle; Matrix (altrenogest) fertility management for swine; Resflor (florfenicol and flunixin meglumine) , a combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease; Zuprevo (Tildipirosin) for bovine respiratory disease; Revalor (trenbolone acetate and estradiol) to improve production efficiencies in beef cattle; Safe-Guard (fenbendazole) de-wormer for cattle; M+Pac (Mycoplasma Hyopneumoniae Bacterin) swine pneumonia vaccine; Porcilis (Lawsonia intracellularis baterin) and Circumvent (Porcine Circovirus Vaccine, Type 2, Killed Baculovirus Vector) vaccine lines for infectious diseases in swine; Nobilis / Innovax (Live Marek s Disease Vector) , vaccine lines for poultry; Paracox and Coccivac coccidiosis vaccines; Exzolt , a systemic treatment for poultry red mite infestations; Slice (Emamectin benzoate) parasiticide for sea lice in salmon; Aquavac (Avirulent Live Culture)/ Norvax vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish; Aquaflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic for farm-raised fish; Flexolt (fluralaner) against lice in sheep; and Allflex Livestock Intelligence solutions for animal identification, monitoring and traceability. Companion Animal Products Bravecto , a line of oral and topical parasitic control products, including the original Bravecto (fluralaner) products for dogs and cats that last up to 12 weeks; Bravecto (fluralaner) One-Month , a monthly product for dogs, and Bravecto Plus (fluralaner/moxidectin), a two-month product for cats; Sentinel, a line of oral parasitic products for dogs including Sentinel Spectrum (milbemycin oxime, lufenuron, and praziquantel) and Sentinel Flavor Tabs (milbemycin oxime, lufenuron); Optimmune (cyclosporine), an ophthalmic ointment; Nobivac vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination; GilvetMab , an immune checkpoint inhibitor monoclonal antibody conditionally licensed for melanoma and mastocytoma tumors; Otomax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP; Betamethasone valerate USP; and Clotrimazole USP ointment)/ Mometamax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Clotrimazole, USP, Otic Suspension)/ Mometamax Ultra (gentamicin sulfate, mometasone furoate monohydrate and posaconazole suspension)/ Posatex (Orbifloxacin, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Posaconazole, Suspension) ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis; Caninsulin / Vetsulin (porcine insulin zinc suspension) diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats; Panacur (fenbendazole)/ Safeguard (fenbendazole) broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; Regumate (altrenogest) fertility management for horses; Prestige vaccine line 3 Table of C o ntent s for horses; Scalibor (Deltamethrin) /Exspot for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies; and Sure Petcare products for companion animal identification and well-being, including the microchip and pet recovery system Home Again . For a further discussion of sales of the Company s products, see Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Product Approvals Set forth below is a summary of significant product approvals received by the Company in 2023 and, to date, in 2024. Product Date Approval Keytruda January 2023 U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval as a single agent for adjuvant treatment following surgical resection and platinum-based chemotherapy for adult patients with stage IB (T2a 4 cm), II, or IIIA NSCLC, based on the KEYNOTE-091 trial. March 2023 FDA full approval for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with unresectable or metastatic MSI-H or dMMR solid tumors that have progressed following prior treatment and who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options. The conversion from an accelerated to a full (regular) approval is based on the KEYNOTE-158, KEYNOTE-164 and KEYNOTE-051 trials. April 2023 FDA accelerated approval in combination with Padcev (enfortumab vedotin-ejfv) for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy, based on the KEYNOTE-869 trial dose escalation cohort, Cohort A and Cohort K, which was conducted in collaboration with Seagen (now Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer)) and Astellas. June 2023 Japan s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) approval for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PMBCL, based on the KEYNOTE-170 and the KEYNOTE-A33 trials. August 2023 European Commission (EC) approval in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma in adults whose tumors express PD-L1, based on the KEYNOTE-811 trial. September 2023 China s National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approval as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with advanced unresectable or metastatic MSI-H or dMMR solid tumors, including patients with colorectal cancer that have progressed following treatment with fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin or irinotecan, or those with other solid tumors that have progressed following prior therapy and who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options, based on the KEYNOTE-158 and KEYNOTE-164 trials. October 2023 EC approval as a monotherapy for the adjuvant treatment of adults with NSCLC who are at high risk of recurrence following complete resection and platinum-based chemotherapy, based on the KEYNOTE-091 trial. October 2023 FDA approval for the treatment of patients with resectable (tumors =4cm or node positive) NSCLC in combination with platinum-containing chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery, based on the KEYNOTE-671 trial. October 2023 FDA full approval for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with recurrent locally advanced or metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. The conversion from an accelerated to a full (regular) approval is based on the KEYNOTE-913 and KEYNOTE-017 trials. October 2023 FDA approval in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin for the treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic biliary tract cancer, based on the KEYNOTE-966 trial. 4 Table of C o ntent s Keytruda November 2023 FDA approval in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the first-line treatment of adults with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-negative gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma, based on the KEYNOTE-859 trial. December 2023 FDA full approval in combination with Padcev (enfortumab vedotin-ejfv), an antibody-drug conjugate, for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer. The conversion from an accelerated to a full (regular) approval is based on the KEYNOTE-A39 trial that was conducted in collaboration with Seagen (now Pfizer) and Astellas. December 2023 EC approval in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-negative gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma in adults whose tumors express PD-L1, based on the KEYNOTE-859 trial. December 2023 EC approval in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin for the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable or metastatic biliary tract carcinoma in adults, based on the KEYNOTE-966 trial. December 2023 China s NMPA approval in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-negative gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma, based on the KEYNOTE-859 trial. January 2024 FDA approval in combination with chemoradiotherapy for the treatment of patients with FIGO (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics) stage III-IVA cervical cancer, based on the KEYNOTE-A18 trial. January 2024 FDA full approval for the treatment of patients with HCC secondary to hepatitis B who have received prior systemic therapy other than a PD-1/PD-L1 containing regimen. The conversion from an accelerated to full (regular) approval is based on the KEYNOTE-394 trial. February 2024 China s NMPA approval in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic biliary tract carcinoma, based on the KEYNOTE-966 trial. Lynparza (1) May 2023 FDA approval in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious BRCA-mutated ( BRCAm ) metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), based on the PROpel trial. August 2023 Japan s MHLW approval in combination with abiraterone and prednisolone for treatment of adult patients with BRCAm mCRPC with distant metastasis, based on the PROpel trial. Prevymis June 2023 FDA approval for CMV prophylaxis in Donor CMV-seropositive/Recipient CMV-seronegative adult kidney transplant recipients, based on the P002 trial. November 2023 EC approval for CMV prophylaxis Donor CMV-seropositive/Recipient CMV-seronegative adult kidney transplant recipients, based on the P002 trial. Ervebo August 2023 FDA approval of an expanded indication for the prevention of disease caused by Zaire ebolavirus in individuals 12 months of age and older. The vaccine was previously approved for use in individuals 18 years of age and older. September 2023 EC approval of an expanded indication for active immunization of individuals one year of age or older to protect against Ebola Virus Disease caused by Zaire ebolavirus . The vaccine was previously approved for use in the EU for individuals 18 years of age or older. Welireg December 2023 FDA approval for the treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC following both a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor and a vascular endothelial growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, based on the LITESPARK-005 trial. Bravecto January 2024 EC approval of injectable formulation for dogs for the persistent killing of fleas and ticks for 12 months after treatment. (1) Being jointly developed and commercialized in a worldwide collaboration with AstraZeneca . 5 Table of C o ntent s Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers, and animal health care companies. The Company s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the payment of royalties or in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well-positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements and collaborations and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales of the Company s products in that therapeutic category. The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s products as well as competitors products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. Health Care Environment and Government Regulation Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. Changes to the U.S. health care system as part of health care reform enacted in prior years, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, have contributed to pricing pressure. In several international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, the Company s sales performance in 2023 was negatively affected by other cost-reduction measures taken by governments and other third parties to lower health care costs. In the U.S., the Biden Administration and Congress continue to discuss legislation designed to control health care costs, including the cost of drugs. The Company anticipates all of these actions and additional actions in the future will continue to negatively affect sales and profits. United States The Company faces increasing pricing pressure from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins, including, through (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (ACA), the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (American Rescue Plan Act), and the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA). In the U.S., federal and state governments for many years have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal and state laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for medicines purchased by certain state and federal entities such as the Department of Defense, Veterans Affairs, Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. Additionally in the U.S., consolidation and integration among health care providers is a major factor in the competitive marketplace for pharmaceutical products. Health plans and pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for Merck s products or obtaining such placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely affect revenue. In addition to formulary 6 Table of C o ntent s tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been increasing the cost-sharing required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. Private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. These same management tools are also used in treatment areas in which the payor has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. As the U.S. payor market concentrates further, the Company may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payors. In order to provide information about the Company s pricing practices, the Company annually posts on its website its Pricing Transparency Report for the U.S. The report provides the Company s average annual list price, net price increases, and average discounts across the Company s U.S. portfolio dating back to 2010. In 2023, the Company s gr