Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 Executive Officers of the Registrant 35 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 69 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 70 (a) Financial Statements 70 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 74 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 124 (b) Supplementary Data 126 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Management s Report 127 Item 9B. Other Information 128 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 129 Item 11. Executive Compensation 129 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 130 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 130 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 130 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 131 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 135 Signatures 136 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Merck Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products. The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and include four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Healthcare Services and Alliances segments. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceutical and vaccine products, as well as health management solutions and services, for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock and companion animal species. The Company also offers an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. The Company sells its products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. The Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. The Company has recently sold certain businesses in the Healthcare Services segment and is in the process of divesting the remaining businesses. While the Company continues to look for investment opportunities in this area of health care, the approach to these investments has shifted toward venture capital investments in third parties as opposed to wholly-owned businesses. The Alliances segment primarily includes activity from the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP related to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, which concluded in 2018. The Company was incorporated in New Jersey in 1970. All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners. Planned Spin-Off of Women s Health, Legacy Brands and Biosimilars into a New Company In February 2020, Merck announced its intention to spin-off (the Spin-Off) products from its women s health, trusted legacy brands and biosimilars businesses into a new, yet-to-be-named, independent, publicly traded company (NewCo) through a distribution of NewCo s publicly traded stock to Company shareholders. The distribution is expected to qualify as tax-free to the Company and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The legacy brands included in the transaction consist of dermatology, pain, respiratory, and select cardiovascular products including Zetia and Vytorin , as well as the rest of Merck s diversified brands franchise. Merck s existing research pipeline programs will continue to be owned and developed within Merck as planned. NewCo will have development capabilities initially focused on late-stage development and life-cycle management, and is expected over time to develop research capabilities in selected therapeutic areas. The Spin-Off is expected to be completed in the first half of 2021, subject to market and certain other conditions. See Risk Factors - Risks Related to the Proposed Spin-Off of NewCo. 1 Table of Contents Product Sales Total Company sales, including sales of the Company s top pharmaceutical products, as well as sales of animal health products, were as follows: ($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Total Sales $ 46,840 $ 42,294 $ 40,122 Pharmaceutical 41,751 37,689 35,390 Keytruda 11,084 7,171 3,809 Januvia/Janumet 5,524 5,914 5,896 Gardasil/Gardasil 9 3,737 3,151 2,308 ProQuad/M-M-R II /Varivax 2,275 1,798 1,676 Bridion 1,131 917 704 Isentress/Isentress HD 975 1,140 1,204 Pneumovax 23 926 907 821 NuvaRing 879 902 761 Zetia/Vytorin 874 1,355 2,095 Simponi 830 893 819 Animal Health 4,393 4,212 3,875 Livestock 2,784 2,630 2,484 Companion Animals 1,609 1,582 1,391 Other Revenues (1) 696 393 857 (1) Other revenues are primarily comprised of Healthcare Services segment revenue, third-party manufacturing sales, and miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities. Pharmaceutical The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Certain of the products within the Company s franchises are as follows: Oncology Keytruda (pembrolizumab), the Company s anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy, as monotherapy for the treatment of certain patients with melanoma, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), urothelial carcinoma, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient cancer, gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, esophageal cancer, cervical cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and merkel cell carcinoma. Keytruda is also used for the treatment of certain patients in combination with chemotherapy for metastatic squamous and non-squamous NSCLC, in combination with chemotherapy for HNSCC, in combination with axitinib for renal cell carcinoma, and in combination with lenvatinib for endometrial carcinoma; and Emend (aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting. In addition, the Company recognizes alliance revenue related to sales of Lynparza (olaparib), an oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, for certain types of advanced ovarian, breast and pancreatic cancers; and Lenvima (lenvatinib) for certain types of thyroid cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, in combination with everolimus for certain patients with renal cell carcinoma, and in combination with Keytruda for certain patients with endometrial carcinoma. Vaccines Gardasil (Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant)/ Gardasil 9 (Human Papillomavirus 9-valent Vaccine, Recombinant), vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV); ProQuad (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M-M-R II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella; Varivax (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella); Pneumovax 23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease; RotaTeq (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and Vaqta (hepatitis A vaccine, inactivated) indicated for the prevention of disease caused by hepatitis A virus in persons 12 months of age and older. 2 Table of Contents Hospital Acute Care Bridion (sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery; Noxafil (posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections; Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin sodium) an anti-bacterial product; Invanz (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections; Cubicin (daptomycin for injection), an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by designated susceptible organisms; Cancidas (caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product; and Prevymis (letermovir) for the prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation and disease in adult CMV-seropositive recipients [R+] of an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Immunology Simponi (golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases; and Remicade (infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Turkey. Neuroscience Belsomra (suvorexant), an orexin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of insomnia, characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. Virology Isentress/Isentress HD (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; and Zepatier (elbasvir and grazoprevir) for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype (GT) 1 or GT4 infection, with ribavirin in certain patient populations. Cardiovascular Zetia (ezetimibe) (marketed as Ezetrol in most countries outside the United States); Vytorin (ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed as Inegy outside the United States); Atozet (ezetimibe and atorvastatin) (marketed outside of the United States) and Rosuzet (ezetimibe and rosuvastatin) (marketed outside of the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines; and Adempas (riociguat), a cardiovascular drug for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Diabetes Januvia (sitagliptin) and Janumet (sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Women s Health NuvaRing (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive product; and Implanon (etonogestrel implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant/ Nexplanon (etonogestrel implant), a single, radiopaque, rod-shaped subdermal contraceptive implant. Animal Health The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceuticals, vaccines and health management solutions and services, as well as an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. Principal products in this segment include: Livestock Products Nuflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine; Bovilis / Vista vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle; Banamine (Flunixin meglumine) bovine and swine anti-inflammatory; Estrumate (cloprostenol sodium) for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle; Matrix (altrenogest) fertility management for swine; Resflor (florfenicol and flunixin meglumine) , a combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease; Zuprevo (Tildipirosin) for bovine respiratory disease; Zilmax (zilpaterol hydrochloride) and Revalor (trenbolone acetate and estradiol) to improve production efficiencies in beef cattle; Safe-Guard (fenbendazole) de-wormer for cattle; M+Pac (Mycoplasma Hyopneumoniae Bacterin) swine pneumonia vaccine; Porcilis (Lawsonia intracellularis baterin) and Circumvent (Porcine Circovirus Vaccine, Type 2, Killed Baculovirus Vector) vaccine lines for infectious diseases in swine; Nobilis / Innovax (Live Marek s Disease Vector) , vaccine lines for poultry; Paracox and Coccivac coccidiosis vaccines; Exzolt , a systemic treatment for poultry red mite infestations; Slice (Emamectin benzoate) parasiticide for sea lice in salmon; Aquavac (Avirulent Live Culture)/ Norvax vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish; Compact PD vaccine for salmon; Aquaflor (Florfenicol) antibiotic for farm-raised fish; and Allflex Livestock Intelligence solutions for animal identification, monitoring and traceability. 3 Table of Contents Companion Animal Products Bravecto (fluralaner), a line of oral and topical parasitic control products for dogs and cats that last up to 12 weeks; Nobivac vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination; Otomax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP; Betamethasone valerate USP; and Clotrimazole USP ointment)/ Mometamax (Gentamicin sulfate, USP, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Clotrimazole, USP, Otic Suspension)/ Posatex (Orbifloxacin, Mometasone Furoate Monohydrate and Posaconazole, Suspension) ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis; Caninsulin / Vetsulin (porcine insulin zinc suspension) diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats; Panacur (fenbendazole)/ Safeguard (fenbendazole) broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; Regumate (altrenogest) fertility management for horses; Prestige vaccine line for horses; and Scalibor (Deltamethrin) /Exspot for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies. For a further discussion of sales of the Company s products, see Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. 2019 Product Approvals Set forth below is a summary of significant product approvals received by the Company in 2019. Product Date Approval Ervebo December 2019 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Ervebo for the prevention of disease caused by Zaire ebolavirus in individuals 18 years of age and older. November 2019 The European Commission (EC) granted a conditional marketing authorization for Ervebo for active immunization of individuals 18 years of age or older to protect against Ebola Virus Disease caused by Zaire Ebola virus. Keytruda December 2019 The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) approved Keytruda for three new first-line indications across advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and recurrent or distant metastatic head and neck cancer. November 2019 EC approved two new regimens of Keytruda as first-line treatment for metastatic or unresectable recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). November 2019 The China National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approved Keytruda for first-line treatment of metastatic squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in combination with chemotherapy. October 2019 NMPA approved Keytruda as monotherapy for first-line treatment of certain patients with advanced NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1. September 2019 FDA approved Keytruda plus Lenvima combination treatment for patients with certain types of endometrial carcinoma. September 2019 EC approved Keytruda in combination with axitinib as first-line treatment for patients with advanced RCC. July 2019 FDA approved Keytruda for recurrent locally advanced or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 combined positive score [CPS] (CPS 10) with disease progression after one of more prior lines of systemic therapy. 4 Table of Contents Keytruda June 2019 FDA approved Keytruda as monotherapy for patients with metastatic small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) with disease progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other prior line of therapy. June 2019 FDA approved two indications for Keytruda for first-line treatment of patients with metastatic or with unresectable, recurrent HNSCC as monotherapy for patients whose tumors express PD-L1 CPS 1 or in combination with platinum and fluorouracil regardless of PD-L1 expression. April 2019 FDA approved Keytruda in combination with axitinib for first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC. April 2019 FDA approved an expanded label for Keytruda as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with stage III NSCLC who are not candidates for surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation, or metastatic NSCLC, and whose tumors express PD-L1 (tumor proportion score [TPS] 1%) as determined by an FDA-approved test, with no epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive (ALK) genomic tumor aberrations. April 2019 EC approved new extended dosing schedule for Keytruda for all approved monotherapy indications. April 2019 NMPA approved Keytruda for first-line treatment of metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC in combination with chemotherapy. March 2019 EC approved Keytruda in combination with chemotherapy for first-line treatment of adults with metastatic squamous NSCLC. February 2019 FDA approved Keytruda for the adjuvant treatment of patients with melanoma with involvement of lymph node(s) following complete resection. January 2019 MHLW approved Keytruda for five indications, including three expanded uses in advanced NSCLC, one in melanoma, as well as a new indication in advanced microsatellite instability-high tumors. Lynparza (1) December 2019 FDA approved Lynparza for first-line maintenance therapy for patients with germline BRCA -mutated (g BRCA -m) metastatic pancreatic cancer whose disease has not progressed for at least 16 weeks of a first-line, platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. December 2019 NMPA approved Lynparza as a first-line maintenance therapy in BRCA -m advanced ovarian cancer. July 2019 EC approved Lynparza as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced BRCA -m, high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. June 2019 MHLW approved Lynparza as first-line maintenance therapy in patients with BRCA -m advanced ovarian cancer. June 2019 EC approved Lynparza for use as first-line maintenance therapy in patients with BRCA -m advanced ovarian cancer. April 2019 EC approved Lynparza for the treatment of g BRCA -m HER2-negative advanced breast cancer. Pifeltro and Delstrigo September 2019 FDA approved supplemental New Drug Applications (sNDAs) for Pifeltro (doravirine) in combination with other antiretroviral agents, and Delstrigo (doravirine, lamivudine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) as a complete regimen, for use in appropriate adults with HIV-1 infection who are virologically suppressed on a stable antiretroviral regimen. 5 Table of Contents Recarbrio July 2019 FDA approved Recarbrio (imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam) for the treatment of adults with complicated urinary tract and complicated intra-abdominal bacterial infections where limited or no alternative treatment options are available. Zerbaxa August 2019 EC approved Zerbaxa for the treatment of adults with hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia (to be used in combination with an antibacterial agent active against Gram-positive pathogens when these are known or suspected to be contributing to the infectious process.) June 2019 FDA approved Zerbaxa 3g dose for the treatment of patients 18 years and older with hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia (HABP/VABP). Bravecto November 2019 FDA approved Bravecto Plus topical solution for cats indicated for both external and internal parasite infestations. (1) In July 2017, Merck and AstraZeneca entered into a global strategic oncology collaboration to co-develop and co-commercialize AstraZeneca s Lynparza. Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers and animal health care companies. The Company s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the payment of royalties or in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well-positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements and collaborations, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company s products in that therapeutic category. The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. Health Care Environment and Government Regulation Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. 6 Table of Contents Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010 (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA)). Various insurance market reforms have since advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also required pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). As a result of the Balanced Budget Act of 2018 and effective at the beginning of 2019, the 50% point of service discount increased to a 70% point of service discount in the coverage gap. In addition, this point of service discount was extended to biosimilar products. Merck recorded a reduction to revenue of approximately $615 million, $365 million and $385 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $4.1 billion in 2018 and decreased to $2.8 billion in 2019 and is expected to remain at that amount for 2020. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $112 million, $124 million and $210 million of costs within Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. In February 2016, the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS) issued the Medicaid rebate final rule that implements provisions of the ACA effective April 1, 2016. The rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state Medicaid programs. The impact of changes resulting from the issuance of the rule is not material to Merck at this time. However, the Company is still awaiting guidance from CMS on two aspects of the rule that were deferred for later implementation. These include a definition of what constitutes a product line extension and a delay in the participation of the U.S. Territories in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program until April 1, 2022. The Company will evaluate the financial impact of these two elements when they become effective. There is significant uncertainty about the future of the ACA in particular and health care laws in general in the United States. The Company is participating in the debate, and monitoring how any proposed changes could affect its business. The Company is unable to predict the likelihood of changes to the ACA. Depending on the nature of any repeal and replacement of the ACA, such actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. A number of states have passed pharmaceutical price and cost transparency laws. These laws typically require manufacturers to report certain product price information or other financial data to the state. Some laws also require manufacturers to provide advance notification of price increases. The Company expects that states will continue their focus on pharmaceutical price transparency and that this focus will continue to exert pressure on product pricing. The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 and the ACA. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. The pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls. In addition, Congress and/or the administration may again consider proposals to allow international reference pricing or, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. The administration has recently proposed a draft rule that would allow importation of certain lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada. If the rule is finalized as proposed, states or certain other non-federal governmental entities would be able to submit importation program proposals to the FDA for review and authorization of two-year programs (with the opportunity to extend for two more years). There will be a public comment period on the proposed rule which will expire on March 9, 2020. Following the comment period, the FDA will have to review and finalize its 7 Table of Contents proposal befo