Item 1. Business 3 Information about our Executive Officers 21 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 Item 6. [Reserved] 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 99 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 99 Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 99 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 100 Item 9B. Other Information 101 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 101 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 101 Item 11. Executive Compensation 101 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 101 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 101 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 102 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 108 Signatures 109 2 PART I Item 1 Note About Forward-Looking Statements This report includes estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including the following sections: Business (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K), Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K), and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, strategy, future, opportunity, plan, may, should, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Embracing Our Future Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. We are creating the tools and platforms that deliver better, faster, and more effective solutions to support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. Microsoft is innovating and expanding our entire portfolio to help people and organizations overcome today s challenges and emerge stronger. We bring technology and products together into experiences and solutions that unlock value for our customers. In a dynamic environment, digital technology is the key input that powers the world s economic output. Our ecosystem of customers and partners have learned that while hybrid work is complex, embracing flexibility, different work styles, and a culture of trust can help navigate the challenges the world faces today. Organizations of all sizes have digitized business-critical functions, redefining what they can expect from their business applications. Customers are looking to unlock value while simplifying security and management. From infrastructure and data, to business applications and collaboration, we provide unique, differentiated value to customers. We are building a distributed computing fabric across cloud and the edge to help every organization build, run, and manage mission-critical workloads anywhere. In the next phase of innovation, artificial intelligence ( AI ) capabilities are rapidly advancing, fueled by data and knowledge of the world. We are enabling metaverse experiences at all layers of our stack, so customers can more effectively model, automate, simulate, and predict changes within their industrial environments, feel a greater sense of presence in the new world of hybrid work, and create custom immersive worlds to enable new opportunities for connection and experimentation. What We Offer Founded in 1975, we develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential. We offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and we provide solution support and consulting services. We also deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience. 3 PART I Item 1 Our products include operating systems , cross-device productivity and collaboration applications , server applications , business solution applications , desktop and server management tools , software development tools , and video games. We also design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. The Ambitions That Drive Us To achieve our vision, our research and development efforts focus on three interconnected ambitions: Reinvent productivity and business processes. Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform. Create more personal computing. Reinvent Productivity and Business Processes At Microsoft, we provide technology and resources to help our customers create a secure hybrid work environment. Our family of products plays a key role in the ways the world works, learns, and connects. Our growth depends on securely delivering continuous innovation and advancing our leading productivity and collaboration tools and services, including Office 365, Dynamics 365, and LinkedIn. Microsoft 365 brings together Office 365, Windows, and Enterprise Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees with AI-backed tools that unlock creativity, increase collaboration, and fuel innovation, all the while enabling compliance coverage and data protection. Microsoft Teams is a comprehensive platform for work, with meetings, calls, chat, collaboration, and business process automation. Microsoft Viva is an employee experience platform that brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and insights powered by Microsoft 365. Together with the Microsoft Cloud, Dynamics 365, Microsoft Teams, and Azure Synapse bring a new era of collaborative applications that transform every business function and process. Microsoft Power Platform is helping domain experts drive productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence. In a dynamic labor market, LinkedIn is helping professionals use the platform to connect, learn, grow, and get hired. Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent Edge Platform As digital transformation accelerates, organizations in every sector across the globe can address challenges that will have a fundamental impact on their success. For enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations, engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and services. Microsoft has a proven track record of delivering high value to our customers across many diverse and durable growth markets. We continue to invest in high performance and sustainable computing to meet the growing demand for fast access to Microsoft services provided by our network of cloud computing infrastructure and datacenters. Azure is a trusted cloud with comprehensive compliance coverage and AI-based security built in. Our cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs. The Microsoft Cloud is the most comprehensive and trusted cloud, providing the best integration across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time to value, reducing costs, and increasing agility. Being a global-scale cloud, Azure uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, AI capabilities, and trusted security and compliance. We see more emerging use cases and needs for compute and security at the edge and are accelerating our innovation across the spectrum of intelligent edge devices, from Internet of Things ( IoT ) sensors to gateway devices and edge hardware to build, manage, and secure edge workloads. With Azure Stack, organizations can extend Azure into their own datacenters to create a consistent stack across the public cloud and the intelligent edge. 4 PART I Item 1 Our hybrid infrastructure consistency spans security, compliance, identity, and management, helping to support the real-world needs and evolving regulatory requirements of commercial customers and enterprises. Our industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire Microsoft Cloud, along with industry-specific customizations, to improve time to value, increase agility, and lower costs. Azure Arc simplifies governance and management by delivering a consistent multi-cloud and on-premises management platform. Security, compliance, identity, and management underlie our entire tech stack. We offer integrated, end-to-end capabilities to protect people and organizations. In March 2022, we completed our acquisition of Nuance Communications, Inc. ( Nuance ). Together, Microsoft and Nuance will enable organizations across industries to accelerate their business goals with security-focused, cloud-based solutions infused with powerful, vertically optimized AI. We are accelerating our development of mixed reality solutions with new Azure services and devices. Microsoft Mesh enables presence and shared experiences from anywhere through mixed reality applications. The opportunity to merge the physical and digital worlds, when combined with the power of Azure cloud services, unlocks new workloads and experiences to create common understanding and drive more informed decisions. The ability to convert data into AI drives our competitive advantage. Azure SQL Database makes it possible for customers to take SQL Server from their on-premises datacenter to a fully managed instance in the cloud to utilize built-in AI. Azure Synapse brings together data integration, enterprise data warehousing, and big data analytics in a comprehensive solution. We are accelerating adoption of AI innovations from research to products. Our innovation helps every developer be an AI developer, with approachable new tools from Azure Machine Learning Studio for creating simple machine learning models, to the powerful Azure Machine Learning Workbench for the most advanced AI modeling and data science. From GitHub to Visual Studio, we provide a developer tool chain for everyone, no matter the technical experience, across all platforms, whether Azure, Windows, or any other cloud or client platform. Additionally, we are extending our infrastructure beyond the planet, bringing cloud computing to space. Azure Orbital is a fully managed ground station as a service for fast downlinking of data. Create More Personal Computing We strive to make computing more personal by putting people at the core of the experience, enabling them to interact with technology in more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways. Microsoft 365 is empowering people and organizations to be productive and secure as they adapt to more fluid ways of working, learning, and playing. Windows also plays a critical role in fueling our cloud business with Windows 365, a desktop operating system that s also a cloud service. From another internet-connected device, including Android or macOS devices, you can run Windows 365, just like a virtual machine. With Windows 11, we have simplified the design and experience to empower productivity and inspire creativity. Windows 11 offers innovations focused on enhancing productivity and is designed to support hybrid work. It adds new experiences that include powerful task switching tools like new snap layouts, snap groups, and desktops new ways to stay connected through Microsoft Teams chat the information you want at your fingertips and more. Windows 11 security and privacy features include operating system security, application security, and user and identity security. Tools like search, news, and maps have given us immediate access to the world s information. Today, through our Search, News, Mapping, and Browse services, Microsoft delivers unique trust, privacy, and safety features. Microsoft Edge is our fast and secure browser that helps protect your data, with built-in shopping tools designed to save you time and money. Organizational tools such as Collections, Vertical Tabs, and Immersive Reader help make the most of your time while browsing, streaming, searching, and sharing. We are committed to designing and marketing first-party devices to help drive innovation, create new device categories, and stimulate demand in the Windows ecosystem. The Surface family includes Surface Laptop Studio, Surface Laptop 4, Surface Laptop Go 2, Surface Laptop Pro 8, Surface Pro X, Surface Go 3, Surface Studio 2, and Surface Duo 2. 5 PART I Item 1 With three billion people actively playing games today, and a new generation steeped in interactive entertainment, Microsoft continues to invest in content, community, and cloud services . We have broadened our approach to how we think about gaming end-to-end, from the way games are created and distributed to how they are played , including cloud gaming so players can stream across PC, console, and mobile. We have a strong position with our large and growing highly engaged community of gamers , including the acquisition of ZeniMax Media Inc., the parent company of Bethesda Softworks LLC . In January 2022, we announced plans to acquire Activision Blizzard , Inc., a leader in game development and an interactive entertainment content publisher . Xbox Game Pass is a community with access to a curated library of over 100 first- and third-party console and PC titles . Xbox Cloud Gaming is Microsoft s game streaming technology that is complementary to our console hardware and gives fans the ultimate choice to play the games they want, with the people they want, on the devices they want. Our Future Opportunity The case for digital transformation has never been more urgent. Customers are looking to us to help improve productivity and the affordability of their products and services. We continue to develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people to stay productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management. Our goal is to lead the industry in several distinct areas of technology over the long term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth. We are investing significant resources in: Transforming the workplace to deliver new modern, modular business applications, drive deeper insights, and improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, play, and interact with one another. Building and running cloud-based services in ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals. Applying AI to drive insights and act on our customer s behalf by understanding and interpreting their needs using natural methods of communication. Tackling security from all angles with our integrated, end-to-end solutions spanning security, compliance, identity, and management, across all clouds and platforms. Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any devices and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming by creating the next wave of entertainment. Using Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC market, and drive increased engagement with our services like Microsoft 365 Consumer, Teams, Edge, Bing, Xbox Game Pass, and more. Our future growth depends on our ability to transcend current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions. We have the opportunity to redefine what customers and partners can expect and are working to deliver new solutions that reflect the best of Microsoft. Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment to Sustainability We work to ensure that technology is inclusive, trusted, and increases sustainability. We are accelerating progress toward a more sustainable future by reducing our environmental footprint, advancing research, helping our customers build sustainable solutions, and advocating for policies that benefit the environment. In January 2020, we announced a bold commitment and detailed plan to be carbon negative by 2030, and to remove from the environment by 2050 all the carbon we have emitted since our founding in 1975. This included a commitment to invest $1 billion over four years in new technologies and innovative climate solutions. We built on this pledge by adding commitments to be water positive by 2030, zero waste by 2030, and to protect ecosystems by developing a Planetary Computer. We also help our suppliers and customers around the world use Microsoft technology to reduce their own carbon footprint. Fiscal year 2021 was a year of both successes and challenges. While we continued to make progress on several of our goals, with an overall reduction in our combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, our Scope 3 emissions increased, due in substantial part to significant global datacenter expansions and growth in Xbox sales and usage as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite these Scope 3 increases, we will continue to build the foundations and do the work to deliver on our commitments, and help our customers and partners achieve theirs. We have learned the impact of our work will not all be felt immediately, and our experience highlights how progress won t always be linear. 6 PART I Item 1 While fiscal year 2021 presented us with some new learnings, we also made some great progress. A few examples that illuminate the diversity of our work include: We purchased the removal of 1.4 million metrics tons of carbon. Four of our datacenters received new or renewed Zero Waste certifications. We granted $100 million to Breakthrough Energy Catalyst to accelerate the development of climate solutions the world needs to reach net-zero across four key areas: direct air capture, green hydrogen, long duration energy storage, and sustainable aviation fuel. We joined the First Movers Coalition as an early leader and expert partner in the carbon dioxide removal sector, with a commitment of $200 million toward carbon removal by 2030. Sustainability is an existential priority for our society and businesses today. This led us to create our Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability, an entirely new business process category to help organizations monitor their carbon footprint across their operations. We also joined with leading organizations to launch the Carbon Call an initiative to mobilize collective action to solve carbon emissions and removal accounting challenges for a net zero future. The investments we make in sustainability carry through to our products, services, and devices. We design our devices, from Surface to Xbox, to minimize their impact on the environment. Our cloud and AI services and datacenters help businesses cut energy consumption, reduce physical footprints, and design sustainable products. Addressing Racial Injustice and Inequity We are committed to addressing racial injustice and inequity in the United States for Black and African American communities and helping improve lived experiences at Microsoft, in employees communities, and beyond. Our Racial Equity Initiative focuses on three multi-year pillars, each containing actions and progress we expect to make or exceed by 2025. Strengthening our communities: using data, technology, and partnerships to help improve the lives of Black and African American people in the United States, including our employees and their communities. Evolving our ecosystem: using our balance sheet and relationships with suppliers and partners to foster societal change and create new opportunities. Increasing representation and strengthening inclusion: build on our momentum, adding a $150 million investment to strengthen inclusion and double the number of Black, African American, Hispanic, and Latinx leaders in the United States by 2025. Over the last year, we collaborated with partners and worked within neighborhoods and communities to launch and scale a number of projects and programs, including: working with 70 organizations in 145 communities on the Justice Reform Initiative, expanding access to affordable broadband and devices for Black and African American communities and key institutions that support them in major urban centers, expanding access to skills and education to support Black and African American students and adults to succeed in the digital economy, and increasing technology support for nonprofits that provide critical services to Black and African American communities. We have made meaningful progress on representation and inclusion at Microsoft. We are 90 percent of the way to our 2025 commitment to double the number of Black and African American people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders in the U.S., and 50 percent of the way for Hispanic and Latinx people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders in the U.S. We exceeded our goal on increasing the percentage of transaction volumes with Black- and African American-owned financial institutions and increased our deposits with Black- and African American-owned minority depository institutions, enabling increased funds into local communities. Additionally, we enriched our supplier pipeline, reaching more than 90 percent of our goal to spend $500 million with double the number of Black and African American-owned suppliers. We also increased the number of identified partners in the Black Partner Growth Initiative and continue to invest in the partner community through the Black Channel Partner Alliance by supporting events focused on business growth, accelerators, and mentorship. Progress does not undo the egregious injustices of the past or diminish those who continue to live with inequity. We are committed to leveraging our resources to help accelerate diversity and inclusion across our ecosystem and to hold ourselves accountable to accelerate change for Microsoft, and beyond. 7 PART I Item 1 Investing in Digital Skills The COVID-19 pandemic led to record unemployment, disrupting livelihoods of people around the world. After helping over 30 million people in 249 countries and territories with our global skills initiative, we introduced a new initiative to support a more skills-based labor market, with greater flexibility and accessible learning paths to develop the right skills needed for the most in-demand jobs. Our skills initiative brings together learning resources, certification opportunities, and job-seeker tools from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn, and is built on data insights drawn from LinkedIn s Economic Graph. We previously invested $20 million in key non-profit partnerships through Microsoft Philanthropies to help people from underserved communities that are often excluded by the digital economy. We also launched a national campaign with U.S. community colleges to help skill and recruit into the cybersecurity workforce 250,000 people by 2025, representing half of the country s workforce shortage. To that end, we are making curriculum available free of charge to all of the nation s public community colleges, providing training for new and existing faculty at 150 community colleges, and providing scholarships and supplemental resources to 25,000 students. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Microsoft aims to recruit, develop, and retain world-changing talent from a diversity of backgrounds. To foster their and our success, we seek to create an environment where people can thrive, where they can do their best work, where they can proudly be their authentic selves, guided by our values, and where they know their needs can be met. We strive to maximize the potential of our human capital resources by creating a respectful, rewarding, and inclusive work environment that enables our global employees to create products and services that further our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As of June 30, 2022, we employed approximately 221,000 people on a full-time basis, 122,000 in the U.S. and 99,000 internationally. Of the total employed people, 85,000 were in operations, including manufacturing, distribution, product support, and consulting services 73,000 were in product research and development 47,000 were in sales and marketing and 16,000 were in general and administration. Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our Culture Microsoft s culture is grounded in the growth mindset. This means everyone is on a continuous journey to learn and grow. We believe potential can be nurtured and is not pre-determined, and we should always be learning and curious trying new things without fear of failure. We identified four attributes that allow growth mindset to flourish: Obsessing over what matters to our customers. Becoming more diverse and inclusive in everything we do. Operating as one company, One Microsoft, instead of multiple siloed businesses. Making a difference in the lives of each other, our customers, and the world around us. Our employee listening systems enable us to gather feedback directly from our workforce to inform our programs and employee needs globally. Seventy percent of employees globally participated in our fiscal year 2022 Employee Signals survey, which covers a variety of topics such as thriving, inclusion, team culture, wellbeing, and learning and development. Throughout the fiscal year, we collect over 75,000 Daily Pulse employee survey responses. During fiscal year 2022, our Daily Pulse surveys gave us invaluable insights into ways we could support employees through the COVID-19 pandemic, addressing racial injustice, the war in Ukraine, and their general wellbeing. In addition to Employee Signals and Daily Pulse surveys, we gain insights through onboarding, internal mobility, leadership, performance and development, exit surveys, internal Yammer channels, employee Q A sessions, and AskHR Service support. 8 PART I Item 1 Diversity and Inclusion At Microsoft we have an inherently inclusive mission: to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We think of diversity and inclusion as core to our business model, informing our actions to impact economies and people around the world. There are billions of people who want to achieve more, but have a different set of circumstances, abilities, and backgrounds that often limit access to opportunity and achievement. The better we represent that diversity inside Microsoft, the more effectively we can innovate for those we seek to empower. We strive to include others by holding ourselves accountable for diversity, driving global systemic change in our workplace and workforce, and creating an inclusive work environment. Through this commitment we can allow everyone the chance to be their authentic selves and do their best work every day. We support multiple highly active Employee Resource Groups for women, families, racial and ethnic minorities, military, people with disabilities, and employees who identify as LGBTQIA+, where employees can go for support, networking, and community-building. As described in our 2021 Proxy Statement , annual performance and compensation reviews of our senior leadership team include an evaluation of their contributions to employee culture and diversity. To ensure accountability over time, we publicly disclose our progress on a multitude of workforce metrics including: Detailed breakdowns of gender, racial, and ethnic minority representation in our employee population, with data by job types, levels, and segments of our business. Our EEO-1 report (equal employment opportunity). Disability representation. Pay equity (see details below). Total Rewards We develop dynamic, sustainable, market-driven, and strategic programs with the goal of providing a highly differentiated portfolio to attract, reward, and retain top talent and enable our employees to thrive. These programs reinforce our culture and values such as collaboration and growth mindset. Managers evaluate and recommend rewards based on, for examp