Item 1. Business 3 Information about our Executive Officers 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 34 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 98 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 98 Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 98 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 99 Item 9B. Other Information 101 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 101 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 101 Item 11. Executive Compensation 102 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 102 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 102 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 102 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 103 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 110 Signatures 111 2 PART I Item 1 Note About Forward-Looking Statements This report includes estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including the following sections: Business (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K), Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K), and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, strategy, future, opportunity, plan, may, should, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. B USINESS GENERAL Embracing Our Future Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence ( AI ) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We create platforms and tools, powered by AI, that deliver innovative solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers. From infrastructure and data, to business applications and collaboration, we provide unique, differentiated value to customers. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. We have entered a new age of AI that will fundamentally transform productivity for every individual, organization, and industry on earth, while helping us address some of our most pressing challenges. Microsoft's AI offerings, including Copilot and our Copilot stack, are already orchestrating a new era of AI transformation, driving better business outcomes across every role and industry. As a company, we believe we can be the democratizing force for this new generation of technology and the opportunity it will help unlock for every country, community, and individual. We believe AI should be as empowering across communities as it is powerful, and we re committed to ensuring it is responsibly designed and built with safety and security from the outset. What We Offer Founded in 1975, we develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential. We offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and we provide solution support and consulting services. We also deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our products include operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, and video games. We also design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. 3 PART I Item 1 The Ambitions That Drive Us To achieve our vision, our research and development efforts focus on three interconnected ambitions: Reinvent productivity and business processes. Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform. Create more personal computing. Reinvent Productivity and Business Processes At Microsoft, we provide technology and resources to help our customers create a secure, productive work environment. Our family of products plays a key role in the ways the world works, learns, and connects. Our growth depends on securely delivering continuous innovation and advancing our leading productivity and collaboration tools and services, including Microsoft 365, LinkedIn, and Dynamics 365. Microsoft 365 is an AI first platform that brings together Office, Windows, Copilot, and Enterprise Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees. Copilot for Microsoft 365 combines AI with business data in the Microsoft Graph and Microsoft 365 applications. Microsoft Teams is a comprehensive platform for communication and collaboration, with meetings, calling, chat, file collaboration, and the ability to bring all of the applications teams use into a single place. Microsoft Viva is an employee experience platform that brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and insights. Together, the Microsoft Cloud, Dynamics 365, Microsoft Teams, and our AI offerings bring a new era of collaborative applications for every role and business function to get insights and business impact faster. Dynamics 365 is a portfolio of intelligent business applications that delivers operational efficiency and breakthrough customer experiences. Our role-based extensions of Microsoft Copilot Copilot for Sales, Copilot for Service, and Copilot for Finance bring together the power of Copilot for Microsoft 365 with role-specific insights and workflow assistance to streamline business processes. Copilot Studio allows customers to customize Copilot for Microsoft 365 or build their own Copilot. Microsoft Power Platform helps domain experts drive productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence. Copilot Pro is a consumer subscription service that offers faster and more powerful AI assistance in Microsoft 365 apps and on the web. LinkedIn combines our unique data with this new generation of AI to transform the way professionals learn, sell, market, and get hired. Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent Edge Platform Digital transformation and adoption of AI continues to revolutionize more business workstreams for organizations in every sector across the globe. For enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations, engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and services. We continue to invest in high performance and sustainable computing to meet the growing demand for fast access to Microsoft services provided by our network of cloud computing and AI infrastructure and datacenters. Our cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs. The Microsoft Cloud provides the best integration across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time to value, reducing costs, and increasing agility. As the foundation of the Microsoft Cloud, Azure uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, data and AI capabilities, and trusted security and compliance. We offer supercomputing power for AI at scale to run large workloads, complemented by our rapidly expanding portfolio of AI cloud services and hardware, which includes custom-built silicon and strong partnerships with chip manufacturers. We have introduced purpose-built cloud infrastructure for AI workloads including a custom AI accelerator, Azure Maia, and a custom in-house central processing unit, Azure Cobalt. 4 PART I Item 1 Our AI platform, Azure AI, is helping organizations transform, bringing intelligence and insights to the hands of their employees and customers to solve their most pressing challenges. We offer a wide selection of industry-leading frontier and open models, including from partners, as well as state-of-the-art tooling, and AI-optimized infrastructure, delivering the Copilot stack for Microsoft, enterprises, and developers. Organizations large and small are deploying Azure AI solutions to achieve more at scale, more easily, with the proper enterprise-level responsible AI and safety and security protections. Azure AI Studio provides a full lifecycle toolchain customers can use to ground these models on their own data, create prompt workflows, and help ensure they are deployed and used safely. GitHub Copilot is at the forefront of AI-powered software development, giving developers a tool to write code easier and faster. From GitHub to Visual Studio, we provide a developer tool chain for everyone, no matter the technical experience, across all platforms. We have a long-term partnership with OpenAI, a leading AI research and deployment company. We deploy OpenAI s models across our consumer and enterprise products. As OpenAI s exclusive cloud provider, Azure powers all of OpenAI's workloads. We have also increased our investments in the development and deployment of specialized supercomputing systems to accelerate OpenAI s research. Our hybrid infrastructure offers integrated, end-to-end security, compliance, identity, and management capabilities to support the real-world needs and evolving regulatory requirements of commercial customers and enterprises. Our industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire Microsoft Cloud, along with industry-specific customizations. Azure Arc simplifies governance and management by delivering a consistent multi-cloud and on-premises management platform. The Microsoft Intelligent Data Platform fully integrates databases, analytics, and governance. Microsoft Fabric is an end-to-end, unified analytics platform that brings together all the data and analytics tools that organizations need. Nuance is a leader in conversational AI and ambient intelligence across industries, including healthcare, financial services, retail, and telecommunications. Microsoft and Nuance enable organizations to accelerate their business goals with security-focused, cloud-based solutions infused with AI. As the rate and pace of cyberthreats continue to accelerate, security is a top priority for every organization. Microsoft offers customers integrated products addressing security, compliance, identity, management, and privacy across customers multi-cloud, application, and device assets. With Copilot for Security, Microsoft offers an AI cybersecurity product that enables security professionals to respond to cyberthreats quickly. Windows 365 enables users to stream a full Windows experience from the Microsoft Cloud to any device. Create More Personal Computing We strive to make computing more personal, enabling users to interact with technology in more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways. Windows 11 offers innovations focused on performance, productivity, and creativity, including Copilot in Windows. Windows 11 security and privacy features include operating system security, application security, and user and identity security. Dev Home is an open-source experience in Windows to help developer productivity. We are committed to designing and marketing first-party devices to help drive innovation, create new device categories, and stimulate demand in the Windows ecosystem. The Surface family includes Surface Pro, Surface Laptop, and other Surface products. Copilot+ PCs are a new class of Windows 11 PCs that are powered by a neural processing unit. These PCs use on-device AI for enhanced performance and features. Copilot is an AI assistant that helps users navigate the web, answer questions, and create content. Microsoft Edge is our fast and secure browser that helps protect users data and offers enhanced browsing capabilities including quick access to AI-powered tools, apps, and more. The AI-powered Bing search engine with Copilot delivers better search, more complete answers, and the ability to generate content. 5 PART I Item 1 Microsoft is expanding how billions of people globally access and play video games on PC, console, mobile, and cloud. We put game development front and center, backed by innovative hardware, experiences, and a subscription service, Xbox Game Pass, that allows those games to reach more players across more devices. Activision Blizzard, Inc. ( Activision Blizzard ), a leader in game development and an interactive entertainment content publisher, joined Microsoft in October 2023. Our Future Opportunity We are focused on helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend while leading the AI platform wave across our solution areas. We continue to develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people to be productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management. Our goal is to lead the industry in several distinct areas of technology over the long term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth. We are investing significant resources in: Transforming the workplace to deliver new modern, modular business applications, drive deeper insights, and improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, and interact with one another. Building and running cloud-based services in ways that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals. Applying AI and ambient intelligence to drive insights, revolutionize many types of work and business processes, and provide substantive productivity gains using natural methods of communication. Tackling security from all angles with our integrated, end-to-end solutions spanning security, compliance, identity, and management, across all clouds and platforms. Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any devices and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming. Using Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC market, and drive increased engagement with our services like Microsoft Edge, Bing, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Consumer, Xbox Game Pass, and more. Our future growth depends on our ability to transcend current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions. Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment to Sustainability Microsoft s approach to addressing climate change starts with the sustainability of our own business. In 2020, we committed to being a carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste company by 2030. Since announcing that commitment, we have seen major changes both in the technology sector and in our understanding of what it will take to meet our climate goals. New technologies, including generative AI, hold promise for new innovations that can help address the climate crisis. At the same time, the infrastructure and electricity needed for these technologies create new challenges for meeting sustainability commitments across the tech sector. In May 2024, we released our Environmental Sustainability Report which looked back at our progress in several areas during fiscal year 2023. In four areas we are on track, and in each of these we see progress that has the potential to have global impact beyond our own sustainability work. These are: Reducing our direct operational emissions (Scope 1 and 2). Accelerating carbon removal. Designing for circularity to minimize waste and reusing cloud hardware. Improving biodiversity and protecting more land than we use. At the same time, there are two areas where we re not yet on track, and in each of these we are intensively engaged in work to identify and pursue additional breakthroughs. These are: Reducing our indirect emissions (Scope 3). Reducing our water use and replenishing more water than we consume in our datacenter operations. 6 PART I Item 1 Even amid the challenges, we remain optimistic. We re encouraged by ongoing progress across our campuses and datacenters, and throughout our value chain. Addressing Racial Injustice and Inequity In June 2020, we outlined a series of multi-year commitments designed to address the racial injustice and inequity experienced by racial and ethnic minorities in the United States, including Black and African American communities. We remain committed to addressing racial injustice and inequity and helping improve lived experiences at Microsoft, in employees communities, and beyond. In fiscal year 2024, we continued to collaborate with partners and worked within neighborhoods and communities to advance projects and programs. We grew our Nonprofit Tech Acceleration for Black and African American Communities program, to help more than 3,000 local organizations in nearly 1,900 Black and African American communities use technical solutions to modernize and streamline operations. We also expanded our Technology Education and Learning Support ( TEALS ) program to reach nearly 550 high schools across 21 racial equity expansion regions with the support of nearly 1,500 volunteers, 12% of whom identify as Black or African American. We have committed $150 million in Minority Depository Institutions and funds supporting Black and African American-owned small businesses. These commitments drive sustained impact by directly enabling an increase of funds into local communities, improving diverse, small-business access to capital, and increasing skill development. We continue to partner with diverse-owned banking partners and asset managers to catalyze growth and industry participation. Additionally, we enriched our supplier pipeline, achieving our goal to spend $500 million with double the number of Black- and African American-owned suppliers. We have also provided 162 low- or no-interest loans to our small to medium-sized partners through our Partner Capital Fund. We also continue to make progress toward our overall commitment to double the number of Black and African American and Hispanic and Latinx leaders in the U.S. by 2025. Investing in Digital Skills Microsoft s Skills for Jobs initiative aims to support a more skills-based labor market, with greater flexibility and accessible learning paths to develop the right skills needed for the most in-demand jobs. This initiative brings together classes, Career Essentials Certificates, and other resources from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn, and is built on data insights drawn from LinkedIn s Economic Graph. Our goal was to train and certify 10 million learners by 2025. As of May 2024, we have surpassed that goal, training and certifying 12.6 million learners. We also launched a campaign in the United States in 2021 to help skill and recruit 250,000 people into the nation s cybersecurity workforce by 2025, representing half of the country s workforce shortage. To that end, we are making curriculum available free of charge to all of the nation s higher education institutions, providing training for new and existing faculty, and providing scholarships and supplemental resources to 25,000 students. The cyber skills initiative has expanded to 27 additional countries that show elevated cyberthreat risks coupled with significant gaps in their cybersecurity workforces, where we ve partnered with nonprofits and other educational institutions to train the next generation of cybersecurity workers. Generative AI is creating unparalleled opportunities to empower workers globally, but only if everyone has the skills to use it. In June 2023, we launched an AI Skills initiative to help everyone learn how to harness the power of AI. This includes a new LinkedIn learning pathway offering new coursework on learning the foundations of generative AI. We also launched a new global grant challenge to uncover new ways of training workers on generative AI and provide greater access to digital learning events and resources. Additionally, we extended our reach in rural communities, including through our TechSpark initiative in the United States. As of June 2024, we ve helped more than 2.5 million people in 92% of the world s countries learn how to use AI. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Microsoft aims to recruit, develop, and retain world-changing talent from a diversity of backgrounds. To foster their and our success, we seek to create an environment where people can thrive and do their best work. We strive to maximize the potential of our human capital resources by creating a respectful, rewarding, and inclusive work environment that enables our global employees to create products and services that further our mission. Microsoft s culture is grounded in growth mindset. This means everyone is on a continuous journey to learn and grow, operating as one company instead of multiple siloed businesses. Our culture also embeds the security of customers and Microsoft as a priority for every employee and across all of our organizations. 7 PART I Item 1 As of June 30, 2024, we employed approximately 228,000 people on a full-time basis, 126,000 in the U.S. and 102,000 internationally. Of the total employed people, 86,000 were in operations, including product support and consulting services, datacenter operations, and manufacturing and distribution; 81,000 were in product research and development; 45,000 were in sales and marketing; and 16,000 were in general and administration. Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We design our programs to attract, reward, and retain top talent, enable our employees continual growth, and reinforce our culture and values. Our total compensation opportunity is highly differentiated and market competitive. Our intended result is a global performance and development approach that fosters our culture, drives company performance, and competitive compensation that ensures equitable pay by role while supporting pay for performance. Diversity and inclusion are core to our business. As reported in our Global Diversity and Inclusion Reports, we monitor pay equity and career progress across multiple dimensions. We encourage every person at Microsoft to play an active role in creating an inclusive environment. We have invested significantly in employee wellbeing and offer a differentiated benefits package which includes many physical, emotional, and financial wellness programs. Our Occupational Health and Safety program helps to protect employees safety while they are working. We also have introduced Hybrid Workplace Flexibility guidance to better support leaders, managers, and employees in hybrid work scenarios. We believe providing employees with access to continual learning enables them to drive impact for the company. We provide individuals and teams with access to first and third-party content resources across professions, disciplines, and roles, and offer skilling opportunities to support employees growth while driving organizations needs. Our employee listening systems enable us to gather feedback directly from our workforce to inform our programs and employee needs globally, giving us real-time insights into ways we can support our employees. As a company, we will continue to leverage data and research to inform decision making, balancing the needs of the business, team, and individual. OPERATING SEGMENTS We operate our business and report our financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of resources within businesses. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 19 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Our reportable segments are described below. Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: Office Commercial (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, Microsoft Viva, and Copilot for Microsoft 365. Office Consumer, including Microsoft 365 Consumer and Copilot Pro subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other Office services. LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications. 8 PART I Item 1 Office Commercial Office Commercial is designed to increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users in new markets such as frontline workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add value to our core product and service offerings to span AI and productivity categories such as communication, collaboration, analytics, security, and compliance. Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Office 365. Office Consumer Office Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity and creativity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our core product set with new features including AI tools, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into new markets. Office Consumer revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions. Office Consumer Services revenue is mainly affected by the demand for communication and storage through Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive, which is largely driven by subscriptions, advertising, and the sale of minutes. LinkedIn LinkedIn connects the world s professionals to make them more productive and successful and transforms the way companies hire, market, sell, and learn. Our vision is to create economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce through the ongoing development of the world s first Economic Graph, a digital representation of the global economy. In addition to LinkedIn s free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions designed to offer AI-enabled insights and productivity: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. Talent Solutions provide insights for workforce planning and tools to hire, nurture, and develop talent. Talent Solutions also includes Learning Solutions, which help businesses close critical skills gaps in times where companies are having to do more with existing talent. Marketing Solutions help companies reach, engage, and convert their audiences at scale. Premium Subscriptions enable professionals to manage their professional identity, grow their network, find jobs, access knowledge, and connect with talent through additional services like premium search. Sales Solutions help companies strengthen customer relationships, empower teams with digital selling tools, and acquire new opportunities. Growth will depend on our ability to increase the number of LinkedIn members and our ability to continue offering insight and AI-enabled services that provide value for our members and increase their